the european union is proud to have set strict conditions to ensure public health, environmental protection, animal welfare.
forging closer ties with serbia entails a number of other advantages for the european union in particular, as it will facilitate cooperation in the areas of justice, freedom and security, the environment, transport and customs, to mention just a few.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
energy efficiency is still lagging behind, as you said.
energy efficiency is now an integral part of the headline target of the eu 2020 strategy.
− mr president, first of all let me say that the commissioner is the one who is proposing this additional approach to energy efficiency and i fully trust that he is doing his best to achieve that goal.
we are also trying to link this energy issue to other policy objectives like the fight against climate change.
one of the concerns in the energy sector is precisely the fact that we still have very different regulations.
on 4 february there will be the communications that we presented recently, and there is also of course the historic (i think we can now call it historic) climate and energy package that we presented some years ago under my previous commission.
thirdly, simplification is indeed one of our priorities for energy and innovation, and in this case for research.
but it is precisely in the recommendations we have made in a document we have just published that we ask the states not to reduce investment in education and research, and particularly in the energy sector, if possible.
in view of this, how does the european commission intend to encourage and support research into the detection and exploitation of these energy sources, which are in any case easier to transport to the european union than any other pipeline planned?
member states should provide the necessary public services and infrastructure to address the health and social consequences for patients and their environment.
madam president, i would agree with many colleagues, but particularly with mrs herczog and mr repo, who have referred to the environmental importance of this area and the importance of protecting the rights of indigenous peoples.
and the environment of the region is of particular importance.
it's a critical area for addressing climate change and adapting to it.
our own voice should always express our values and we should always move towards the protection of these resources and towards a low-carbon economy.
this region is of importance to the union, particularly because of its energy and transport links.
energy, security, stability and, of course, democracy are areas of our top concern for this region.
finally, it is needless to stress that the european union's integrated maritime policy can also make a significant contribution to the integrated sustainable development of the straits settlements.
the black sea region is of great importance for europe's energy security.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the european union is not able to meet its energy needs.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the united states to take action.
when will we know if nabucco is viable or not so we can save our energy and see what else we can do ?
the nabucco issue, which is one of the main issues in the energy security of europe, is very important and needs to be clarified.
i think you could ask the member states to prepare maps of what is going on in terms of the exploitation of energy resources and sources in each member state, evaluate the most promising projects, adopt incentives for private companies to engage in exploitation, and see what we can do with our own resources.
the next european council meeting, mr president, is taking place in the context of the capitalist crisis and the intensification of monopoly competition, both within the european union and between the european union and other imperialist centres, for energy and innovation.
large regions such as the middle east, asia, africa are the scene of fierce imperialist competition and interventions to control the sources of wealth and the energy transport routes that cause immense poverty, cruel exploitation and oppression, in cooperation with the local bourgeoisie at the expense of the peoples.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
the destruction of forests and the environment, the poor working conditions and the use of pesticides - banned in the european union - are commonplace.
now, to my main topic, the waste.
there are many reports of waste crises and there are areas where there is a massive breach of community law, such as transfrontier shipments of waste.
the commission therefore needs to propose new complementary tools, such as the extension of the responsibilities of the european environment agency and the possibility of union fact-finding missions to the member states.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the way to tackle the problem of the rapid increase in electronic and electrical waste, which is estimated to reach 12.3 million tonnes by 2020. the revision of the directive is a great opportunity to stop the leakage of dangerous substances due to the inadequate functioning of official collection points, unreasonable management and irregular transport.
the main problems we are facing are: firstly, whereas 65% of electrical and electronic equipment placed on the market is collected separately, less than half is processed and declared, and the rest ends up in the environment or exported to third countries.
secondly, the existing collection rate of four kilograms per person per year for household waste does not reflect consumption in individual member states and therefore leads to targets that are too low for some countries and too ambitious for others.
what we did was: first, we extended the scope to all waste, with only a few exceptions.
secondly, we have strengthened the collection targets so that by 2016 85% of this waste will be collected.
fourthly, member states must ensure that sufficient resources are available for the collection of waste from households.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner that would be contrary to the interests of the consumer.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
i voted today in favour of the ep report on the management of electronic waste, which is of particular importance for greece as well, as over 150,000 tonnes of electronic waste were identified in 2010. the main objectives are high-level legal treatment (as only one third of eu e-waste is currently legally collected and treated), the proper collection, recycling and reuse of valuable substances contained in waste, and the prevention of illegal shipments of waste, an obligation primarily incumbent on the member states.
the key to this effort is to raise awareness among all the parties involved, manufacturers, consumers and public authorities, and to provide incentives for all to dispose of such waste in a correct and appropriate manner.
through the coordination of policies, financial instruments and stakeholders at different levels of governance, integrated responses will be developed to a range of challenges: untapped river navigation potential, insufficient road and rail links, threats to the environment.
it goes without saying that the impact of climate change on these regions is projected, and that they have the potential to develop green economies, transport and renewable energy.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
we are dealing with topics of great interest, in particular the european commission's desire to support the entrepreneurial spirit and improve the environment in which businesses, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, operate by supporting them in accessing markets in third countries: i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
firstly, i would emphasise that the world bank energy strategy is very welcome because the world bank plays a very particular role in the world, particularly in dealing with development issues.
there are still a substantial number of households today that have no access to any type of energy.
it is true that, although we have been discussing the issue for 20 years, substantial investment in the energy sector or energy service provision have not been delivered to hundreds of millions of people, particularly in sub-saharan africa.
the third point – and here i fully agree with ms keller – is sustainability and anticipation.
whatever the energy sector does should be considered in the light of the consequences that it has on climate change.
we know that the energy sector which exists today is the biggest cause of greenhouse gases.
as for the orientation, i would expect parliament to take account of the green paper on eu development policy, where we make access to renewable energy in developing countries one of the central pillars of the new eu development policy.
if we do not take this pioneering step, we cannot easily expect to convince the world bank and others that we should be focusing investment on renewable energy.
i believe that we are capable of managing the scale of investment in renewable energy.
it is true that it requires a lot of financial means today, but any energy strategy would require quite a lot of investment.
so, if i see anticipation of the prices, i would always argue that renewable energy is definitely the one that should be at the heart of any energy policy in any part of the world.
our knowledge of renewable technologies today gives a good guarantee that we really could make a change in these countries.
i know that hydropower, for example, is a rather challenging source of energy from all points of view but, provided environmental sustainability analysis is being done, i believe that most countries also have a fantastic untapped potential in hydropower, which gives additional arguments that the scale – the inga dam – for example is huge.
it is our ally but we really need to provide european leadership on this issue and in the energy sector for the developing world.
the facility finances infrastructure and climate-friendly energy projects.
as far as the energy sector is concerned, no projects exist in the area of fossil fuels.
the general policy is very clear – to fund climate-friendly energy projects based on wind, hydraulic or solar energy.
in the context of the mid-term review of the eib external mandate – covering pre-accession, neighbourhood and partner countries, asia, latin america and south africa – a proposal has been put forward by the commission to activate an additional eur 2 billion mandate for 2011-2013 to support eib financing operations in the field of climate change mitigation and adaptation across all regions.
the proposal stresses that the eib’s own rules and procedures shall include the necessary provisions to ensure that only projects that are economically, financially, environmentally and socially sustainable are supported under the mandate.
i believe that the eu has already taken some steps in the right direction, but we could really take more steps to provide real leadership for the world, not least by addressing the world bank’s energy strategy.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
it is a fact that funding for renewable energy projects has increased by 300%.
the world bank, and this is, i would say, outrageous, does not calculate the environmental footprint of the projects it funds.
i really hope that this report, as it will come out after the final vote, will send a strong message about the necessary environmental reforms that the world bank needs to complete internally.
madam president, poverty, climate change, low birth rates, immigration, energy and, above all, the fight against unemployment are the main problems facing the european union today.
madam president, for months now we have been discussing in the union an effective, coherent and sustainable response to the crisis, a response which will ensure the achievement of our strategic objectives, which are sustainable growth, protection of employment, social progress and social cohesion.
as part of europe 2020, we outlined a new concept for industrial policy at european level which does much more for competitiveness and the sustainability of jobs in the european union.
the first example of this is going to be an outline for supporting developing energy networks in europe.
this is absolutely necessary in order to develop the energy markets and the necessary infrastructure that is vital for it.
we have to make all possible efforts to ensure that the overall deadlines are met through the contributions of the individual member states, in the fields both of employment and innovation, and of energy.
let me just mention, about energy, that there was a very successful meeting of the european council on 4 february.
for many of us it represented a kind of breakthrough, both for the establishment of the integrated energy market and for energy efficiency.
important decisions were also made with respect to the external aspects of the common energy policy.
we will have very useful orientation debates on cohesion policy, on energy policy, on agriculture and so on, but, as is said sometimes, il ne faut pas mettre la charrue avant les bœufs.
madam president, the causes of the increasing volatility of food prices are many: extreme weather events, limited natural and energy resources, an increase in the world population.
this is because behind each category of losers and winners are problems in the functioning of the agri-food chain in the eu, the threat of climate change to food security, the dead ends of shallowness and inconsistency in production, trade and development choices.
− first let me answer mr higgins’ question concerning the regulatory environment.
the commission has revised its state aid rules to encourage member states to direct more support for smes to key areas such as training, r&d and environmental protection and to overcome the current focus on large businesses.
the second theme is the role of water as an ecological service.
we take for granted that we have water, we use the so-called ecological services that aquatic life provides us, and we should really appreciate them.
the council conclusions are intended to contribute to the european commission's communication on a vision for european waters, which is planned to be adopted in 2012 and which will highlight the importance of sustainable management of the eu member states' water resources and the security of water resources and drinking water supplies.
finally, ladies and gentlemen of the house, the hungarian presidency will also organise water conferences and events, such as the conference on the future of europe's freshwater resources, which will be held in budapest from 23 to 25 march, in conjunction with the informal meeting of environment ministers.
i voted against the report on the world bank's energy strategy for developing countries mainly because a very negative amendment by the epp was voted in which an important point in the original resolution was altered.
in particular, this change removes from the resolution the concern that the world bank includes nuclear energy among the 'clean forms' of energy.
the resolution thus accepts the use of nuclear energy as a solution to reduce carbon emissions.
in conclusion, nuclear energy is not only acceptable but is also proposed and promoted as a 'clean' form of energy to tackle climate change and reduce carbon emissions.
but the promotion of nuclear energy is in direct conflict with the demand for a world free of nuclear weapons, whether used for war or for "peaceful" purposes.
together with other members of the left group, we tabled an alternative resolution outlining the necessary and necessary measures and tools for a europe which aims at economically, socially and environmentally sustainable development with full employment and rights for its workers.
the important added value of innovative financial instruments, the double benefit, as we say, is that in addition to revenue they can also have a strong regulatory role: to discourage practices and behaviours that are harmful, whether we are talking about the financial sector or the environment and its protection.
the report covers four main thematic areas: taxation of the financial sector, eurobonds and european investment bonds, carbon taxation and financing for development objectives.
we should be careful in choosing which ones will be implemented; we should exclude tax on sectors such as the energy sector which have a multiplying effect on living costs.
otherwise, i welcome the report which globally supports the actions of the commission in innovative financing, in particular in the area of carbon tax, euro project bonds and development financing.
i can easily agree with mr rivellini’s comprehensive presentation and also with the fact that the implementation of the various measures adopted by the gfcm is key to ensuring the sustainable management of fishery resources in the mediterranean.
we have to do it if we want to ensure biodiversity in the mediterranean and make sure that it does not turn into a dead sea.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
mr president, commissioner damannakis, ladies and gentlemen, the mediterranean represents a very small part of our planet, only about 1% of the marine area, but it is very rich, it has 8% to 9% of marine biodiversity.
this agreement aims to ensure the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries stocks.
we also want to prevent and combat illegal fishing and promote the development of port infrastructures and the protection of the marine environment.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
but public property in greece is not all the same: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in the form of a comprehensive environmental policy, and that the environment is protected in the form of a comprehensive environmental policy.
critical environmental protection areas such as the nestos delta, where thousands of hectares have already been declared tourist facilities, are also threatened.
such changes in uses that sacrifice vital environmental functions are the opposite of any definition of sustainable development.
the crisis and debt do not negate the right of future generations to a vital natural environment and opportunities for sustainable cities.
the european agricultural sector is being asked to contribute increasingly to the production of public goods through strict standards of safety and quality, environmental protection and animal welfare.
i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the proposals for control measures will protect the natural environment and will therefore benefit the parties to the gats.
in addition to this new indirect tax, a whole series of measures are proposed, which are supposedly 'innovative financing' measures, new levers on the popular income: a carbon tax, a solidarity contribution to airline tickets, and even a global lottery, a global lottery to fight hunger!
we should be careful in choosing which instruments to implement: in my opinion we should exclude tax on sectors − such as the energy sector − which have a multiplying effect on living costs.
the intensification of the world economic crisis has given a new impetus to the competition between the imperialist centres for control of markets, energy sources and transport routes.
firstly, the programme has made further progress towards its objectives; and secondly, there remain considerable challenges to be overcome in order to secure fiscal sustainability, restore competitiveness and ensure a viable banking sector.
however, major reforms still need to be designed and implemented in order to build the critical mass necessary to secure fiscal sustainability and economic recovery.
meeting the fiscal targets and implementing the privatisation programme – and the eu measures of extending the loan maturities and revisiting the pricing policy in the light of debt sustainability, concerns about debt restructuring can and will be addressed.
in one day, euribor recorded the biggest increase since september 2008, creating huge difficulties for greek businesses that are already suffering in this climate of economic hardship that we have.
china's increased domestic demand and its efforts to limit environmental impact have already imposed stringent export restrictions, while global demand is rising.
the european parliament, in its resolution of 15 june, called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and consultation services, and called for the establishment of a european network of information and consultation services for the protection of the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the world economy.
there are modern, sustainable, smart and efficient ways for earthquake-prone countries to balance their energy needs.
otherwise, human life seems to be offset by the energy problem.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
mr president, commissioner, we are really discussing a very critical issue: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not affected by the oil spills, and that the commission is not obliged to take any action to prevent them.
because, really, the problem with sand tar isn't just emissions.
there's also the destruction of unique forests, our crucial allies in tackling climate change, the canadian arctic forests.
meeting the energy needs of the countries in which they operate.
this is a carefully planned programming which has been in place since 1999. this financial support shall also contribute to the environmental upgrading and modernisation of the energy production, transmission and distribution sectors and to the enhancement of the security of energy supply.
i would like to refer to another very important issue, the question of nuclear energy.
secondly, nuclear energy is never completely safe.
we must invest, not in the development of nuclear energy, but in the development of the efficiency of photovoltaic and other renewable energy sources.
the consequences of nuclear energy are transboundary and therefore the responsibility of the european union, and therefore, mr barroso and mr van rompuy, it will be your responsibility too if we do not take the necessary measures to deal with a new accident.
divert resources allocated to the design and construction of new reactors to an economy based on 100% renewable energy by 2050. we are in a state of emergency and we must respond.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from pollution.
in the agenda for consultation with the candidate countries (you mentioned third countries before, i refer to the candidate countries), how high is the environmental ethics for the use of nuclear energy?
that is why we need the reform and that is why we are going to examine the best way forward in order to achieve a balance between the sustainability of stocks and the socio-economic impact that the reform will have.
however, let me be clear: it is not that we are prioritising environmental care over care for our fishermen.
it is not an option for the sustainability of the stocks, for the livelihoods of our fishermen or for the future of our coastal communities.
we are also actively working with regional organisations to put effective management regimes in place for the most vulnerable shark species and to ensure their sustainable exploitation.
i would also like to say that the commission has taken a lot of measures to ensure the sustainable management and protection of sharks in general, beyond shark finning.
last year – and i would like to underline this – we proposed a sustainable and science-based quota for various sharks.
it was not an easy task, but in the end we were successful and we have a sustainable proposal for this year and, i hope, for next year.
i would like to say that the member states around this area were very cooperative and our fishermen and our industry had to suffer a lot of sacrifices in order to secure the sustainability of the stocks.
the commission is going to do its best to ensure that during the next fishing season the sustainability of the stocks will be protected.
regarding protection of the environment and climate change, at eu level the commission is now working with the member states to achieve good environmental status in its marine waters by 2020. at regional level, the eu and its member states cooperate, in the framework of the barcelona convention, with mediterranean partner countries to promote the prevention of pollution, and improve the response to it, in all the regional seas bordering the union.
i would like to ask you more specifically: how do you assess the projects already launched for the decontamination of the mediterranean, for the transfer of energy and how do these fit into the context of the maritime policy, and what added value do you expect to be given to the plans and programmes of the new policy to which you have already referred?
− i would like to agree with mrs grässle that there is, indeed, a strong possibility of pollution because of the energy transfer in the mediterranean.
there is a risk here because the mediterranean is a rather closed sea and it cannot stand the burden of possible pollution.
i would like to say to mrs grässle that commissioner potočnik and myself will be visiting greece next week and we are going to organise something about the pollution of the mediterranean.
i would also like to inform her that mediterranean countries could also better prevent and detect pollution from ships by participating in emsa’s satellite-based monitoring system, such as safe sea nets or clean sea nets.
we have these systems and we are going to encourage our member states around the mediterranean to participate in these systems, to detect possible pollution from ships.
− the commission is putting the finishing touches on the new eu biodiversity strategy, which will provide a framework for action to tackle biodiversity loss over the next decade.
the strategy will be developed around six sub-targets focusing on tackling some of the main drivers of biodiversity loss and the pressures exerted on biodiversity: nature conservation, restoration and green infrastructure, agriculture and forestry, fisheries, invasive species and the european union’s contribution to global biodiversity.
the 2020 eu headline target requires the halting of biodiversity loss and the degradation of ecosystems and the services they provide.
as regards the implementation and enforcement of the eu’s environmental legislation more generally, the commission intends to come out with a new communication on this issue later this year.
the aim is not to replace existing relevant communications but rather to improve upon them by focusing on the overall general structure and knowledge-base that underpins the implementation of this environmental acquis.
it should be recognised that the eu’s legal framework on environmental inspection has already been improved during the last years, notably with the adoption of a recommendation providing for minimum criteria for environmental inspections in the member states as well as the inclusion of various provisions in sectoral environmental legislation.
we are looking forward to seeing the new eu biodiversity strategy and, of course, parliament will have a lot of ideas and we are going to elaborate on this.
also, you mentioned that there will be efforts for biodiversity in the cap, which is one of the instruments we have to protect biodiversity, but parliament has also asked for protection of wilderness and road-free areas.
on the cap and natura 2000 financing, i am trying to do my best to ensure that this is represented very well in the first pillar and in the third pillar and that biodiversity gets proper attention in the future common agricultural policy.
commissioner cioloş, commissioner hedegaard and myself prepared a joint letter which we sent to the last environmental council of ministers.
− the new waste framework directive has set up a five-step hierarchy for waste management.
waste prevention is regarded as the most desirable option, followed by preparing waste for re-use, recycling and other ways of recovery, including energy recovery, with disposal such as landfill as the last resort.
deviations from the hierarchy for specific waste streams are possible.
therefore, waste disposal in landfills that lie at the bottom of the waste hierarchy must be considered by the member states as the least favourable waste management option.
high purity of waste materials, such as paper and glass, is a prerequisite for the use of waste as a secondary raw material by manufacturing industries.
that is why separate collection of recyclable waste streams at source is usually the most favourable method of waste collection.
under the waste framework directive, member states are obliged to introduce by 2015 separate collections for paper, metal, plastic and glass.
again there is certain flexibility for member states to adapt their waste collection systems to the specific national circumstances, notably in cases where highly efficient and advanced sorting technologies are available.
in the absence of such technologies, however, separate collection at source is the cheapest and the easiest method to obtain high quality secondary raw materials from waste.
the commission welcomes this plan, including the construction of new landfill sites, under the condition that this is unavoidable as a last resort option to maintain the waste disposal network that meets mandatory sanitary standards in line with european legal requirements.
the construction of landfills complying with the standards of the eu landfill directive is already progress compared to the practice of illegal dumping of waste.
however, greece must steadily go beyond these measures and move away from landfill as a predominant waste management option towards a modern waste management policy based on waste recovery and recycling.
according to the latest eurostat statistics, in greece around 82% of municipal waste is land-filled whereas the average in the european union is 38%.
additionally, the performance of the recycling sector in greece is very low and only 17% of municipal waste is recycled.
the implementation of the waste directive is a top priority both for the commission and for me personally.
we will monitor the national waste policies through the assessment of the member states’ waste management plans.
we are waiting for an updated waste management plan from greece.
we will also monitor the use of eu funding to ensure that the projects to be financed are consistent with the objectives and requirements defined in our waste legislation.
proper waste management should be seen as an opportunity as it can create business and jobs across the country.
the question is: if this is the worst of the acceptable solutions, why are you accepting environmental impact studies when in many facilities, including the one you may be visiting, we actually have waste that ends up in streams.
this is a scandal and the damage to the environment - if you do not intervene, if you do not stop this economic scandal, because these facilities are co-financed by the european union - will not be avoided.
finally, mr president, the creation of a safe and transparent environment for the operation and financing of political parties is a profoundly democratic act.
it also stresses that new investment promoted by the eu must be sustainable, respectful of the environment and encourage good quality working conditions.
we need a nuclear tax immediately, which will enable us to map out the full environmental cost of nuclear energy.
we need to invest in increasing the efficiency of photovoltaics and really invest in increasing the efficiency of all renewable energy sources.
the fukushima tragedy has brought us, in a particularly painful way, into a new era of nuclear energy.
at the same time, the energy challenges of the 21st century, as well as the risks arising from the ageing and increased unreliability of many nuclear power stations, have changed the facts and require a revision of the euratom treaty, which has remained essentially unchanged for over half a century.
we must pay our monetary debt, and that also means investing in these countries, both for their adaptation and to deal with climate change, and for our accumulated debt from the injustices of our common agricultural policy.
the agreements are necessary, but it is also necessary that when the european union concludes these fisheries agreements with these countries, it does so in the most sustainable way possible.
finally, even if they bear practically no responsibility for climate change, the least-developed countries will be hit the hardest by it and we have an obligation to help them adapt to this.
the sustainability of this resource is important for our fishing industry, and the commission will continue to explore all possible avenues in order to find a balanced solution for the mackerel stock, in cooperation with the coastal states.
but, from the enlargement process so far, i would like to stress that cooperation with these countries, and the integration process - and especially in conditions of economic crisis - should contribute to sustainable development, to the economic and social well-being of the citizens, both of the enlargement countries and of the union, and not to the imposition of economic policies that plunge countries into recession, increase unemployment and undermine social rights.
if to this unfavourable internal environment is added the unresolved name issue, the country's european prospects are seriously tested.
the resolution, which i voted in favour of, sets out and sets out specific policies to reverse this situation at both national and international level in many areas such as trade, fisheries, the environment, agriculture, climate change, energy, investment and the financial sector.
from the experience of enlargement so far, cooperation with the western balkan countries and their accession process, especially in conditions of economic crisis, should contribute to sustainable development and to the economic and social well-being of the citizens of the enlargement countries and of the union.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
i personally support the extension of de minimis aid under certain conditions: focus on small-scale fishermen, small-scale and coastal fisheries; focus on fishermen who practice sound, sustainable fishing practices; finally, emphasis should be placed on ensuring that funding does not lead to an increase in fishing effort and that these measures do not threaten the environmental and social sustainability of european fisheries.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the greens oppose all this to the pact for sustainable prosperity: complete fiscal convergence, a european budget that is genuinely interventionist and ambitious, taking into account the social and environmental dimensions everywhere.
one of the most tangible outcomes of the cancun climate change negotiations was the agreement on a green climate fund, with an unprecedented funding of $100 billion.
the fund should be a well-designed vehicle to provide effective financing for climate adaptation in the developing world.
but both the latest criminal attacks on the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) and the evidence of a recent transparency international report on corruption in climate finance should concern us.
these forests, which are so different for each of us individually in europe, for each of our regions, have a common threat: climate change.
climate change is threatening europe's forests through increased fires, disease, cross-country transmission that threatens entire species, and other disasters from extreme weather.
i am therefore confident that this report represents parliament's view on how we can help forests, help our societies to adapt to climate change.
we ask the commission to follow up the white paper on adapting and protecting forests to climate change, we ask for a new regulation to replace the old one on forest fire prevention, we ask for a new regulation to replace the old one on forest information, and we ask for an increase in funding for forests under pillar 2 of our common agricultural policy.
we are calling for the possibility of financing public bodies, for sustainability criteria for the forest biomass we use for energy and finally for active, sustainable forest management adapted to climate change.
in line with the commission communication on the budget review and the conclusions of the fifth report on social cohesion, the europe 2020 strategy provides both a clear set of common priorities and the framework for identification of funding priorities post-2013 in line with the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, including human capital development.
mr niculescu, how can we ensure a good balance between the production of market goods, food goods and environmental goods?
in this way, the common agricultural policy will be able to integrate, in the objectives proposed with this reform, economic aspects, environmental aspects, aspects linked to climate change and aspects linked to the balances of territories in rural areas.
- mr president, tackling climate change is a major challenge for europe and more research and innovation efforts will be needed to develop a low-carbon society that is resilient to climate change.
at present, there is no single specialised body operating in these areas, nor any specific incentive such as the annual climate innovation prize mentioned.
investment in research and innovation, including new technologies such as eco-innovation, is at the heart of the strategy, and new financial instruments are being considered to achieve a significant increase in private finance and to establish sustainable, long-term growth.
it is also proposed to link eu funding to major societal challenges such as climate change.
i would like to ask you, referring to your own subject, agriculture, how do you imagine that innovation, applied to the agri-food chain, could help not only to combat climate change, but also to address and prevent the negative consequences that we all know will have on rural life?
- mr president, on a practical level, this can be ensured by encouraging farmers to adopt agricultural practices which not only respect the environment, soil quality, water and biodiversity, but which also enable farmers to reduce carbon emissions and better fix carbon in the soil.
the second pillar of the common agricultural policy, in particular, is intended to encourage farmers to direct their investments towards reducing carbon emissions, including through measures relating to investment to enable farmers to modernise.
for example, the level of public co-financing will not be the same for a tractor with high or normal carbon emissions as for a tractor and agricultural equipment with low carbon emissions.
in this way, the agricultural technologies and techniques that farmers will apply can also contribute not only to ensuring economic competitiveness but also to reducing the impact of agricultural activity on climate change.
the european commission is a strong supporter of fiscal consolidation as a precondition for sustainable growth, but we are more than ever conscious of the sensitivity of the economic debate now being discussed as the ‘relaunch versus austerity’ problem, and this was discussed even today in the college.
in the long run the same should be valid for the proposal we are to reveal at the end of june for the next financial perspective, adding a lot on top of what i have mentioned relating to the energy and trans-european infrastructure generally that is also conducive to growth and jobs.
without sustainable growth, neither the debt will be repaid nor the economic situation will improve.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
we need to reduce the administrative burden by simplifying the regulatory environment.
the first thing i would like to stress is that it is the member states themselves which are, first and foremost, responsible for ensuring that their public finances are sustainable and on a sound footing.
the report also identifies further areas where reforms are required in order to build the critical mass necessary to ensure fiscal sustainability and economic recovery.
our review mission is currently in athens with the ecb and the imf to assess the implementation of the programme and to prepare an updated analysis of the debt sustainability of greece.
in the near future a whole new set of rules will provide the basis for stable, sustainable growth and job creation.
in the meantime, we must continue our work to safeguard financial stability and thus protect economic recovery in europe, which is the key for sustainable growth and improving employment.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
the youth on the move flagship initiative is one of the seven flagship initiatives included in the european commission's europe 2020 strategy to promote smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth.
the european commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the european year of the environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
by failing to account for the private and social costs of natural resource use and environmental degradation, conventional accounts can send the wrong message of progress to decision-makers, who can then put society on an unsustainable development path.
the introduction of environmental and economic accounts is essential, but should not replace the development of alternative indicators to gdp covering the various environmental and social dimensions.
these should include a monetised indicator, such as adjusted net savings, and a physical indicator, such as ecological footprint, carbon footprint, for the environmental dimension, as well as social indicators that incorporate the social dimension, such as an estimate of inequalities, e.g.
the original proposal for a european union regulation only provides for the collection and compilation of data on atmospheric emissions, environmental taxes on various economic activities and the macroeconomic accounts for material flows.
the commission has already made a number of proposals and amendments, and we believe that this will enable a comprehensive report to be adopted and that progress will be made in the area of environmental policy.
it is really necessary to move on to environmental economic accounts.
we can no longer see the economy and the environment as separate.
the dual crisis we are facing - environmental and economic - leaves us no such scope.
a fire that destroys a forest, the biodiversity and the ecosystem services that the forest provides, that is, clean water, clean air, the framework for food reproduction, that destroys the cultural heritage of a place, that destroys agricultural production, that fire will be measured positively in gdp because investments will be made in restoration.
the environmental and economic bills we're talking about today are not perfect.
i believe that europe has reached a point where we rarely see a conflict between development and environmental protection.
the report will help us to get a better picture of what is happening to the environment in europe.
i would like to stress three points: firstly, we must have accurate data on the state of the environment in the member states.
i think we all agree on the importance of this proposal and of environmental economic accounts.
we also agree that we need to take the next steps to define policies using the data, to keep us on the path to a more sustainable economy.
in fact the united kingdom is a leader in environmental accounting, which is also worth noting.
finally, on resources, although we do not need resources for this particular subject of environmental economic accounts, i agree with mr martin that we need sufficient resources.
the next item is the report by mr jean-pierre audy, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the mid-term evaluation of the seventh framework programme of the european union for research, technological development and demonstration activities (a7-0160/2011).
trade agreements do not impose privatisation or deregulation obligations, and it will be no different for this ceta, which will include provisions on sustainable development covering economic, environmental and social aspects.
this being said, the negotiation – as in the case of any other trade negotiation – does not in any way impede the ability of the eu or its partner countries to draw up and implement environmental measures.
the environmental impact study, which we paid for to evaluate this agreement, does not include an assessment of the impact of this release on the sandy tar.
and that's because we're talking about boreal forests, about a quarter of the world's virgin forests, and this mining activity is threatening both these forests and the local biodiversity and the local indigenous populations.
no policy is sustainable without the support, or even the tolerance, of society, let alone when it comes to a policy that essentially boils down to the dilemma of debilitating austerity or bankruptcy.
the new seven-year programme and framework builds on the actions of the eu 2020 strategy and is driven by europe's recovery from the crisis by promoting smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the political priorities and objectives shall be to promote employment, enhance innovation, research and development, address climate change, improve education levels, social inclusion, and combat poverty; the commission has also been active in the development of the european union's external relations policy, including migration policies and the provision of resources for the development of disadvantaged and remote areas.
csr (corporate social responsibility) must be the main aspect of the european social model, with the aim of boosting innovation and competitiveness in a way that contributes to employability and job creation, at a time when unemployment rates are rising dramatically and young europeans, our sustainable power, are looking for ways out of europe's borders.
europe is a key player in globalisation processes and has a significant share of responsibility for producing outcomes that contribute to sustainable forms of development.
the falbr report also refers to the importance of corporate social responsibility (csr) and its observance by eu companies, as its implementation by eu companies makes a decisive contribution to areas such as promoting the welfare of societies, protecting the environment and fighting poverty in the countries in which they operate.
the eu has enhanced its international presence through the lisbon treaty and is called upon to respond to challenges such as climate change, the fight against poverty, and the transmission of the rule of law and democratic values to developing countries.
which will improve efficiency and reduce the impact on the environment.
in addressing one or two questions raised during that debate, let me say that the partnership and cooperation agreement covers cooperation on four main issues: firstly, principal norms and standards, secondly, sustainable development, including environment and social development, thirdly, trade and investment, with a special focus on raw materials and, lastly, justice and freedom, including the issue of migration.
we have found that in this case the thresholds were probably applied incorrectly, a screening was not carried out and therefore the environmental impact was not sufficiently objectively assessed.
for skiers like myself, the issue of noise emission often seems to be more important than the issue of environmental damage in the region at 3 o'clock in the afternoon.
madam president, since chernobyl, for acute personal reasons, i have been a very committed opponent of nuclear energy plants.
i believe that we have common interests with russia which we should exploit constructively and reach concrete agreements on trade, energy, moving towards a transparent and credible energy policy and facilitating the movement of people between russia and the eu through visa facilitation.
it brings together in one policy cycle the two arms of economic recovery: financial stability that is based on fiscal consolidation, reflected in stability and convergence programmes, and structural reforms for a smart, sustainable, socially-inclusive and job-creating growth.
it is therefore crucial for the common european asylum system to be completed by 2012 – a system based on high protection standards combined with fair and effective procedures capable of preventing abuse and allowing for rapid examination of asylum applications in order to ensure its sustainability.
the recommendations are based on an extensive analysis by the commission of member states’ plans for sustainable growth and job creation, married to sound public finances.
the esm, combined with the increase of the effective lending capacity of the efsf, is a clear demonstration of our commitment to safeguard the stability of the euro area on the basis of sound and sustainable public finances.
i spoke to parliament in may about the commission’s migration package, which sets recent and future policy initiatives in a framework that allows the eu and its member states to manage asylum, migration and mobility of third-country nationals in a secure environment.
the second condition is an environment of security and support from the european union, an environment of political cohesion, because throughout the crisis, but particularly in the last few weeks, we have been watching and are watching an informal public dialogue between european capitals, the european commission, the european central bank, with a peculiar interest on the part of the credit rating agencies in the famous participation of the private sector in the new rescue package for the greek economy.
the addition of an ecological component to the first pillar, combined with a strengthened rural development policy, is also a key objective to respond to climate change, but also to environmental challenges and to contribute to the europe 2020 strategy.
i share your remarks on improving and strengthening rural development measures and the need to take action to respond more effectively to the challenges of climate change, biodiversity and sustainable management of natural resources.
there are too many critics who believe that the cap has led to environmental degradation but has also threatened and continues to threaten developing countries in many ways, particularly their agriculture and their development.
the european commission has recently launched a new initiative to promote the use of renewable energy sources in europe.
but if we are to implement a serious policy, we must increase the funding for our agricultural policy, for a more equitable, more efficient and more sustainable common agricultural policy.
the environmental measures should be simple in their implementation, accompanied by adequate compensation and not create additional administrative burden.
the increasing instability of agricultural markets, as well as climate risks and food crises, require the activation of effective tools.
the next item is the report by romana jordan cizelj, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council directive on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste (com (2010) 0618 - c7-0387/2010 - 2010/0306 (nle)) (a7-0214/2011).
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionizing radiation is a very important one.
madam president, i wonder if the economic crisis can be solved by measures that are harmful to the climate.
the european commission unfortunately answers 'yes', as it co-signed with portugal the memorandum on the support mechanism as a legitimate budgetary adjustment measure, a condition for reducing the guaranteed prices for energy from renewable sources.
in greece, investments in renewable energy are among the least affected by the economic crisis and the commitment of the previous minister of the environment to safeguard guaranteed prices must be immediately renewed by her successor.
the debate on the possible exclusion of countries with economic problems from the already inadequate european climate targets, the 20-20-20 targets, is also a serious one.
climate targets must be strengthened to the levels scientists are calling for and specific programmes must be designed for countries with economic problems.
we are doomed to break out of this impasse and face the economic, social and environmental crisis.
finally, another fiscal consolidation and another assault on environmental sustainability.
the next item is the report by mr bas eickhout, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the analysis of options for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by more than 20% and the assessment of the risk of carbon leakage (2011/2012 (ini)) (a7-0219/2011).
we continue to attach paramount importance to the objective of limiting global warming to 2°c.
we have said that europe will implement 30% if other major regions of the world - because the climate is global - are ready to make binding agreements.
we then, as the commission, last year considered and adopted a communication which, according to the conclusions, sets out options for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by more than 20%, including reductions of 30%, and how technically and economically feasible these are or whether there are cost effects, assuming that the costs are lower than previously estimated.
if we in the commission, if we in the european union had taken energy efficiency more seriously earlier, automation would probably not have come about in this way.
in fact, i see considerable opportunities for engineers and technicians, for the creation of value in all its forms and, consequently, for jobs, through innovation, particularly in the field of the environment.
we should aim for every one of these new energy and climate jobs in europe.
we will therefore, as promised in the energy efficiency proposal today, report on whether the increase in efficiency will lead to a significant change in the co2 market.
we will have to examine the shortcomings here if we want to keep the issue of emissions trading as a market economy but also as an effective instrument for reducing co2 emissions.
it is necessary here that we not only talk about the allocation of funds and about objectives, but also help and assist in the definition of the programmes of objectives, such as the keyword cluster formation, in individual regions, in parts of regions, in order to generate sustainable economic growth here.
this is the key: to contribute to qualitative and quantitative growth, ensuring that the europe 2020 objectives are met, such as in the areas of energy, climate change, innovation, research, training, employment, but also the fight against poverty.
cohesion policy is a prerequisite for improving the socioeconomic environment in europe and a practical expression of solidarity between member states.
the european parliament's proposals are the basis for creating an environment of economic stability while allowing the development of innovative mechanisms for action such as european bonds and european project bonds.
the european parliament's proposals are the basis for creating an environment of economic stability while allowing the development of innovative mechanisms for action such as european bonds and european project bonds.
the european parliament's proposals are the basis for creating an environment of economic stability while allowing the development of innovative mechanisms for action such as european bonds and european project bonds.
the european parliament's proposals are the basis for creating an environment of economic stability while allowing the development of innovative mechanisms for action such as european bonds and european project bonds.
the european parliament's proposals are the basis for creating an environment of economic stability while allowing the development of innovative mechanisms for action such as european bonds and european project bonds.
the european parliament's proposals are the basis for creating an environment of economic stability while allowing the development of innovative mechanisms for action such as european bonds and european project bonds.
at the same time, the principles of a competitive, sustainable and fair cap, combined with the decoupling of production from direct aid, favours large landowners.
it lays down no restrictions on gmos which pose enormous risks to public health and the ecosystem.
that is the additional environmental data.
the report is a call for action to achieve free movement and settlement across europe, based on fair, balanced and transparent trade relations and sustainable consumption.
the report on the amendment of the directive on the restriction of gmos by member states on their territory not only does not guarantee any protection of public health and the environment from the serious effects of the spread of gm food, but in fact legalises it.
it is no coincidence that for 10 years, despite the provisions of the relevant directive, the european commission has not carried out a study on the effects of gmos on health and the environment, although a number of studies have been published highlighting their devastating consequences.
the only way to protect health and the environment from the harmful effects of mutants is to ban their cultivation and marketing completely and completely.
it allows member states the freedom to prohibit the cultivation of approved gmos in part or all of their territory, but without being able to invoke reasons relating to the protection of health and the environment.
the report adopted makes environmental protection, biodiversity, natural and agricultural characteristics, respect for public opinion, compulsory measures to combat pollution and socioeconomic reasons criteria for a national ban on the cultivation of mutants.
it is essential that there is methodology in the approach to the sensitive issue of climate change.
the report also states that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
even without the phrased commitments to a policy to promote the cohesion of the eu's regions, the new measures will reduce community resources and only those that will further promote the single market, the stability pact and the 'flagship initiatives' for flexible and rights-free employment, lifelong learning, scientific research for multinationals, broadband, technological equipment from large multinationals for energy efficiency and renewable energy sources and green development will be eligible for all kinds of projects in the esdp.
i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the priorities for energy infrastructure for 2020 and beyond.
the way we plan, develop, finance and operate our energy infrastructure and networks in europe will also determine our ability to reduce our energy dependence and thus enhance our energy security.
the energy resources available to the eu can be a growth engine for the european economy as a whole.
financing and implementing energy infrastructure is of particular interest to countries in southern europe, such as greece, which have renewable energy sources such as solar, wind and sea, which they can exploit for the benefit of national development.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
madam president, the political priorities and objectives, as set out in the european commission document and in the garriga polledo report, are to promote employment, to boost innovation, research and development, to tackle climate change, to improve education levels and to promote social inclusion by reducing poverty, to adopt policies on migration, and to secure resources for the development of hard-to-reach and remote areas.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
it is an opportunity to point out the following: if we are to see sustainability in greek debt, this second loan package should have a reduced interest rate.
greece's debt is not going to be sustainable unless you lower the interest rate.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union's new strategy for the environment, which aims to improve the quality of life and the environment in the eu.
this weakens the position of the committee on the environment, which had voted to include the indication of the country of origin on the label of both frozen or processed meat and meat and dairy products.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
firstly, that the current economic crisis in many countries of the european union will worsen living conditions for a new, much larger part of the population and that this must be tackled in a sustainable and coherent way.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area.
i believe that the final text really contains those parameters - development, industry, environment, innovation - which should govern a dynamic european strategy for raw materials in the european union.
be linked to research and innovation, job creation and training of high quality human resources; will strengthen the european union's position in a volatile international environment where competition for access to dwindling natural resources is expected to be increasingly fierce.
the commission proposal and subsequently the present report from the committee on industry, research and energy are in this context and that is why i voted in favour of it.
i voted in favour of the ford report for three main reasons: the establishment of rules for environmental protection, the protection of workers and the sharing of responsibility between oil and gas companies in the event that their activities harm the environment.
the report focuses on the effective prevention and response to pollution from offshore oil and gas extraction and production activities.
oil and gas companies are required to submit concrete contingency plans in advance throughout the operational period and at all stages of offshore projects and to demonstrate that they have sufficient financial guarantees to ensure the restoration of the environment in the event of environmental damage.
the answer is clearly partly legislative: to ensure that contracts offering earlier protection become more widespread; that young people get into permanent jobs more quickly after leaving school; and that in all member states there are more opportunities to invest in skills at all levels and thereby help employees preserve their competitiveness in the intensely competitive environment.
i think it is very important that greece receives sufficient support from other european countries and other sources, like the imf for example, but it is also important that greece delivers in terms of reforms and transformation because otherwise we will never arrive at a sustainable situation.
it is in the interests of all parties involved to work for a more sustainable, stronger structure with greece involved.
we all know that a significant part of climate change is caused by gases other than carbon dioxide.
but our climate policy is focused - and this was perhaps reasonable in the first phase - almost exclusively on carbon dioxide.
this has a very high environmental and economic cost for ordinary citizens.
and it is paradoxical - and it is hard to believe - that we still do not have a comprehensive policy to control these emissions, either in europe or internationally.
one single non-carbon gas category, hydrofluorocarbons (hfcs), is projected to account for 20% of global emissions by 2050. and we know that from these hfcs, from one single category, hfc-23, following an initiative by parliament and commissioner connie hedegaard, and we must commend her for this, we will be able to save from 2013 onwards about 1 billion euros a year, which we have given without reason to the chinese and indian producers.
the strategy we are proposing today will complement the strategy we have followed on co2 and energy efficiency and will also help the competitiveness of european businesses.
and i want to say this, in particular, to colleagues who feel that we are trying to introduce another climate policy.
instead, we are doing something that in the current environment of crisis will be economically beneficial for business as well.
many people are saying that we need a high carbon price.
i would personally say that in the current crisis environment we need a low carbon price, if we can secure it from the market by undertaking such initiatives.
commissioner, in may 2011 the european commission's draft regulation was formally adopted which prohibits the use of credits from industrial greenhouse gas projects such as hydrochlorofluorocarbons in the european union's emissions trading system after april 2013. however, this prohibition does not cover the national objectives of the member states of the european union for the sectors not covered by the trading system, such as agriculture and transport.
environmental organisations are calling on the european union to extend the ban on the use of such molecules to areas not covered by the marketing system.
the proposal for a regulation on energy market integrity and transparency, which i supported, is a first step towards creating a european framework to integrate national energy markets into a single european market.
the proposal concerns wholesale energy markets and aims to regulate deficiencies in wholesale energy markets, such as the suspension of energy production capacity.
the european energy framework is of particular importance and will be of particular concern to greece, particularly in view of the discussions on the country's energy policy and the full exploitation of alternative energy sources (such as solar) offered by new technologies.
unfortunately, instead of ensuring the conditions for global sustainable development, free trade at all costs leads to increased social inequalities, the abuse of natural resources and the increase in environmental pollution.
it is, of course, necessary to mention that the exploitation of these resources is compatible with the need for energy security in europe and the diversification of energy sources.
the european union monopolies are only interested in the wealth-producing sources and energy routes in the region, where acute rivalries between imperialist powers are intersecting.
it makes its political staff shed crocodile tears for the civilians, democracy and democratic rights that the regime violates, it supports the mechanisms of the imperialist centers as "defenders of freedom" cultivating a climate of civil conflict, to give the eu-nato-us imperialists the pretext for war against the syrian people.
this report is of major importance for european research and innovation policy as it seeks to reduce overlaps and waste and to set common european objectives and mechanisms for research and innovation funding.
research and development activities in the neglected fisheries sector can shape a more competitive, sustainable, modern fishing industry and greatly benefit europeans who depend on fishing.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a very good one.
the european parliament's report sets out an ambitious framework to make european tourism a competitive, modern, sustainable and responsible industry.
it also aims to restore the damaged relationship between tourism development and the environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the first item on the agenda is the report by mr gardini, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on 'european disaster response: the role of civil protection and humanitarian aid' (a7-0283/2011)
the committee on regional development has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of south africa on trade in textile products.
the increasing rate of climate change and the depletion of natural resources will further increase the chances of more frequent and more intense natural disasters.
combating climate change and managing natural resources rationally is a smart preventive investment that will save not only lives but also precious resources in times of economic crisis.
in this context, our amendments, adopted in the committee on the environment, have emphasized this very finding and the need for more effective emergency response planning for oil spills, nuclear and other hazardous materials.
they also stressed the need to apply the 'polluter pays' principle more effectively in relation to liability for environmental damage.
europe's forests, which are essential to tackling climate change, are also essential to adapting, to preparing our societies to deal with climate change.
the forests are threatened by fires, floods and many other extreme events due to global warming, and the whole of europe is threatened by these phenomena which, because of their transboundary nature, require us to take action.
the commission must certainly act accordingly and we await its answer as to whether it will proceed with the white paper on forest protection, whether we will finally have legislation to adapt our forests to climate change.
with this report, parliament is calling for the second time for legislation to prevent forest fires, a resource-saving measure which is essential in this economic climate.
behind the loud calls to respond to forest fires or other environmental hazards or natural disasters, there are plans to use military means, as well as the use of existing monitoring systems such as the gmes and galileo satellite systems.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one.
apart from the obvious internal difficulties, does this climate of generalized doubt with bankruptcy scenarios, with or without leaving the euro, create the right conditions for overcoming the crisis?
the most important question that i think has been raised in our discussion has been: do we have the political will to put the amount of energy and effort into our partnership in the east in the way that we have spent a lot of our energy looking to our southern neighbourhood?
there is also the question of some cooperation between different sectors, particularly energy and transport, and of course political cooperation and dialogue.
if we are able to use this opportunity to bring together the leadership with the european union and with our eastern partners, and develop a stronger relationship, being clear about the commitments that we expect as well as the commitments that we give, with ‘more for more’ and mutual accountability being the watchwords of how we operate, i think it will have been an enormous success and it will give new energy to our work with our eastern partners.
i therefore urge all parties now to focus all energy, efforts and minds on the comprehensive settlement.
during this crucial ongoing phase it is essential that all parties concerned exercise restraint and do their utmost to ensure a positive climate that will facilitate successful completion of the process.
it is clear that the exploitation of major resources by the republic of cyprus strengthens the european union's energy security and diversification policy.
madam president, madam high representative, mr commissioner, at a time when the union, under the pressure of the crisis, is discussing and moving towards ever closer fiscal and economic integration, the undersea wealth in economic zones, which is exploited by individual member states in accordance with international law, is a matter for us all, which concerns both our economic future and the union's energy security.
i do not want to speculate whether, if we open the chapter on energy, we will be facing a similar situation to today’s.
mr president, rio+20 is an opportunity to set the planet on a sustainable path, to go into the mechanics of the details and how we are going to do it.
i know most of my colleagues in the committee on the environment from the epp and i wonder how the epp can ask for the deletion of the need to integrate biodiversity into the national accounts.
written declarations (rule 149)
the following is an oral question to the commission on the guidelines on state aid to energy-intensive industries by mario pirillo, rosario crocetta, gianni pittella, guido milana, rita borsellino, pier antonio panzeri, andrea cozzolino, sergio gaetano cofferati, salvatore caronna, patrizia toia, silvia costa, david-maria sassoli, gianluca susta, roberto gualtieri, leonardo domenici, francesco de angelis, oreste rossi, ioan enciu, paolo bartolozzi, giommaria uggias, amalia sartori, aldo patrici, alfredo antoniozzi, giancarlo scottà, salvini, clemente mastella, barbara matera, vincenzo gardini, iovine, gabriele canini, antonio antonio, cristiana muscella, pavel antonio, joaquin castro, paolo pozzo, paolo pozzo, giovanni salato, giovanni giovanni salato, carlo fontana, giovanni salato, giovanni giovanni salato, giovanni paolo, giovanni paolo iovannini, giovanni pomponio, giovanni pomponio, giovanni pomponio, giovanni pomponio, giovanni pomponio, giovanni pomponio, and others, which was published in the official journal of the european communities on 14 february 2011 and was published in the
member of the commission.
the impact assessment on state aid guidelines concerning energy-intensive industries is ongoing.
we received more than 140 submissions from member states, industry associations and environmental ngos.
i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the united nations conference on sustainable development (rio+20).
the conference, which will focus on 'the green economy in the context of sustainable development and poverty eradication' and on 'the institutional framework for sustainable development', is expected to be more effective and ambitious than the previous conferences (rio, 1992 and johannesburg 2002).
climate change is a serious threat to the fight against poverty and to the living standards of future generations.
it is good that the report links future revisions of vat rates and exemptions with social and environmental priorities.
therefore we are investing a great deal of energy in tec contacts and in tec cooperation between the commission and the united states, represented by the white house in this particular case.
to conclude, i would like to assure you that we remain in close contact with our american partners; that this issue, which was raised by several members of the european parliament, will be followed very closely; and that the commission will do all that is necessary to defend the rights of eu businesses and eu job holders and to protect the good economic and business environment between the united states and the european union.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
i share the rapporteur's view of the importance of correctly measuring imbalances with the help of a set of indicators which should cover both internal and external imbalances in order to achieve strong, sustainable and balanced growth.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful organisms.
the stakes, of course, are not in sending aid unplanned, just so that the developed world can get along with its conscience, but in providing substantial and strategic support to our fellow men who need it to get back on their feet and move forward in today's globalized environment.
it is a challenge for the european union as a whole, and for many other regions in the world: how best to support growth and the jobs which are so desperately needed in a climate of stringent fiscal consolidation.
in particular, the restructuring of the economy and of businesses, as we discussed previously, and the transition to a low carbon economy, should be managed and anticipated better.
and i say this because i don't want to waste the little time i have: we must all understand that work is not just a means of earning a living.
the budget proposed by the ep supports investments in sectors that boost economic growth and contribute to growth and the achievement of the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy through cohesion policy, programmes for research, innovation, employment, youth mobility, energy efficiency and production safety and food quality.
it is therefore positive that today the plenary of parliament voted in favour of the creation of a specific action, which i proposed in the 2012 budget, which is intended to deepen research into the social and economic causes of waste and will facilitate the design of an action programme in the most vulnerable countries.
finally, we need to understand that antimicrobial resistance is actually depleting non-renewable resources globally.
but the sustainability of my country's debt depends not only on the 'laundering' but also on the pace of economic growth and the creation of surpluses in the long term, which is not evident if the decline in every growth element from the implementation of the austerity programme continues.
in the field of energy efficiency and energy saving, for example, we believe that in the more developed regions at least 20% of the available budget from the erdf should be used for this purpose.
- to be honest, i don't know of any region that is already 100% renewable energy today.
but i think that research activities in this area can also be counted towards the renewable energy issue.
− innovation is a central element of the reform of the common agricultural policy and innovation in agriculture and the rural environment will be supported not only by the common agricultural policy through the rural development programme, which includes measures that support innovative investment, but also social innovation through the leader programme, which will be strengthened; the commission will also propose a european innovation partnership for agriculture, the agri-food sector and the rural environment.
- mrs schrödter, if i understand the term 'mainstreaming' correctly, you are referring to the extent to which the basic principles of energy efficiency, climate protection, etc.
secondly, we will try to ensure that these principles are included in the partnership agreements as a kind of red thread or green thread, so that the local and regional administrations, when assessing projects to be submitted or already submitted, also assess these effects, such as the effects on climate change.
- mr karim, there will be no duplication of effort, since the greening of the first pillar aid, which the commission is now proposing, does not affect the agri-environmental measures which are financed under the rural development programme and which are contracted.
end of 2013. then, from 2014, in the new rural development programme, member states will be able to continue to apply agri-environmental measures as the budget of this programme will remain the same.
what we are proposing with greening the first pillar is a comprehensive european approach with three simple measures which do not affect what exists in the rural development programme, namely agri-environmental measures, which are specific to one region or another.
and again, i have been very clear from the start: the rural development budget remains secured in the commission's proposals and in the legislative proposals that the commission has put on the table, and also gives the possibility to member states who wish to continue to apply agri-environmental measures.
i voted against the report, as well as the other two related reports (březina a7-0340/2011 and březina a7-0358/2011) because not only are no solutions being promoted towards the abolition of nuclear energy, but, on the contrary, the use of nuclear energy and the funding of related research are being promoted.
unfortunately, the report reproduces the distorted view of the usefulness of nuclear energy for economic reasons and to combat climate change.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of radioactive waste.
on the contrary, the appropriate financing, particularly in the present crisis, is that of sustainable and renewable development which is genuinely compatible with environmental and social needs.
we should ensure emissions peak by then or earlier, not start deciding what to do after that.
we know that canada did not respect its commitment; it increased emissions by 26%.
the intervention of the commissioner for climate change left little room for a satisfactory outcome in durban.
in contrast to this climate of pessimism, those of us who voted for the climate change resolution did so to send a strong political message of will with specific goals: - establish a global, comprehensive, legally binding framework, including a strict timetable for its implementation, to keep global warming below 2°c compared to pre-industrial values; - bridge the 'giant gap' between the ambitions of the parties and the science data, halting dirty development; - reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 by 80-95% compared to 1990 levels; - provide substantial financial and technological assistance to developing countries; - ensure the protection of the world's tropical forests; - end the millions of climate refugees.
the climate cannot wait, nor can humanity.
the resolution seeks to remind member states of the commitments they have made, and unfortunately do not fulfil, in terms of sustainable development and the fight against climate change.
the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european environment agency.
the sustainability of european cinema is undoubtedly largely dependent on its adaptability to new technologies.
maritime transport and short sea shipping, fisheries and aquaculture, renewable energy and protection of the marine environment, coastal tourism and development of island regions: coordination and synergy of all this cluster of actions will maximise the potential for sustainable growth, employment and innovation.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the marine environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
as regards the general objectives, and i would like to mention a few of them, it is important that they include: promoting the development and implementation of integrated maritime and coastal governance; contributing to the emergence of cross-sectoral tools - notably in maritime spatial planning and the common information exchange environment; promoting the protection of the marine environment and biodiversity; supporting the development and implementation of sea-basin strategies; improving and strengthening external cooperation and international policy action; and, finally, supporting sustainable growth, growth and employment, as well as innovation and new technologies in all remote, outlying and concentrated areas of the union.
i believe that the rapporteur's proposals concerning island and decentralized regions are very useful and that, for the sustainable development of coastal regions and islands, particular attention should be paid to the development of land-sea links.
the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the marine environment, such as the introduction of a new system of monitoring and control of the quality of the water, the establishment of a european maritime safety agency and the establishment of a european maritime safety agency.
many of you underlined the need for creating linkages and better cooperation with other agencies, such as the emsa (european maritime safety agency) for transport or environmental agencies or research centres – for example our cooperation with the research services in galway in ireland and in other areas is very important – so that we can multiply the value of our money through this cooperation procedure.
we have also to work together with environmental services since the marine strategy framework directive has until now had no funding line for its implementation.
we have now earmarked around 10% of our money for environmental policy and for implementing the marine strategy framework directive.
first, good governance; second, cross-sectoral rules – maritime surveillance, marine knowledge and maritime spatial planning; third, the environment; and fourth, blue growth.
then of course we have some blue ocean energy projects – not only wind energy, but energy from the sea.
particularly in tough and challenging times, the eu shows with this regulation that it can adopt policies with one objective: economic growth, employment, social cohesion and environmental protection.
a holistic approach to the sea, combined with an integrated approach to marine activities, is necessary, with the fundamental objective of maximising the sustainable exploitation of the sea without jeopardising the development of the marine economy and coastal areas or the conservation of marine ecosystems.
the unregulated fishing by large fleets in the sea areas of eu member states and third countries, which is included in the common fisheries policy, is seriously damaging fish stocks, food security and environmental protection, with painful consequences for the people.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionizing radiation, which is a directive which is not yet in force.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
education, as an important sector for the development of a sustainable economy, must be strengthened so that it can act as a growth engine and not be subject to budget cuts that can be costly due to the marginalization of younger generations in terms of employment.
it is important that our message today is that cost reductions in our countries' budgets must be achieved by fighting waste and not by cutting funding programmes such as for hiv/aids and by the stronger investment we need in prevention.
the european semester report is fully in line with the eu's failed neoliberal policies and deprives member states of the opportunity to pursue an alternative countercyclical policy aimed at redistribution of wealth and sustainable development.
mr president, just yesterday morning in durban a decision was made in the climate negotiations for a second commitment period for the kyoto protocol.
we have to commit to a 30% reduction of our greenhouse emissions by 2012. this will allow us to create jobs and to stay globally competitive.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the draft scoreboard for the monitoring of macroeconomic imbalances by sharon bowles, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy (o-000306/2011 b7-0670/2011)
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in drawing up this report, which has been a great help to us in our efforts to combat the problem of pollution of the seas and the effects of the effects of the climate change.
in addition, there are serious ecological problems.
madam president, i believe that emsa must remain and expand in its core mission, which is to control safety at sea and to protect human life at sea and the environment.
i would like to take this opportunity to point out that there are many areas where the scientific evidence and the contribution of emsa are decisive in terms of pollution of marine areas, not only from ships but also from land-based industries and aquaculture.
i'll end with this fact: the cost of marine pollution on a global scale, in 2006 values, is 256 billion euros.
the effects on the health of the inhabitants of coastal areas and on the environment are serious.
the white paper is an ambitious plan which, by setting out strategic directions for each transport sector and priorities for how to get there, succeeds in bringing a heterogeneous sector into an ambitious sustainable vision for 2050. the grosch report adopts this vision, enriching it with a number of practical guidelines.
at the same time, without departing from the principle of subsidiarity, the commission's high ambitions for sustainable transport can be facilitated by new european initiatives on urban mobility.
finally, the 2020 interim carbon reduction targets are the result of good intentions, but not of a comprehensive study.
without a detailed assessment of the likely effects, it is difficult to predict that the 30% target for shipping emissions will have the desired effects and that the short time frame involved will not undermine the feasibility of the target and, therefore, the weight of parliament's objectives.
at the same time the region is rich in resources and has the potential of diversifying energy export routes to the eu and contributing to eu energy security.
on energy, we are closer than ever to making our trans-caspian pipeline a reality, with the participation of turkmenistan in the southern energy gas corridor.
as regards international financial institutions, the european bank for reconstruction and development continues to be a leading investor, to develop the private sector primarily, and we have expanded the mandate of the european investment bank to cover central asia, with a focus on energy and environment.
the strategy’s prime objective is achieving an ‘ongoing, sustainable and uniform reduction in accidents at work and occupational illnesses’.
as the economic governance package, and therefore the macroeconomic imbalance scoreboard, cannot offer fair and radical solutions for europe's exit from the crisis and the sustainability of its economic functioning, i voted against this motion for a resolution.