in the context of intercountry adoption, the oral questioners' main concern was the legal environment.
to do this, we must convince the finance ministers, the decision-makers, that the food industry in the european union not only produces food, but also public goods, environmental, social public goods, which we could not guarantee or produce in any way without agriculture.
the next summit in february will be a good opportunity to make important strategic decisions on an important issue such as energy.
the hungarian presidency has begun preparations for the energy summit.
i would ask you to reassure me that the energy summit cannot be overshadowed by concerns about the stability of the euro area.
economic governance, energy policy, or the strategy of the roma.
energy security has been one of the key issues and challenges of the european union since its foundation.
for a long time, we thought that the most critical thing was to reduce our dependence on energy sources.
as one of the effects of the economic crisis, it is very important that we address the issue of energy security.
and all this while having an aging energy infrastructure.
the most important task of the hungarian presidency at the energy summit is to lay the foundations for this infrastructure, not only for gas but also for electricity.
we need to not develop the networks of the past, but to guarantee investors and capital capacity for the smart energy networks of the future.
the hungarian government should ensure that all member states support the improvement of safety in nuclear waste management.
we cannot allow this abuse to continue, this environmental damage to continue.
i am convinced that european politicians must pay particular attention to the protection of the environment and support all efforts to protect and help protect the environment, not only in europe but also in the whole of our globe.
- having regard to the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the kingdom of norway on the participation of norway in the european atomic energy community (oj l 347, 20.12.2001, p. 1), and in particular article 4 (2) (a) thereof,
member of the commission.
and i'm not speaking as a representative of the arctic circle, but i just want to remind all of us that not only is there an economic heritage, not only is there an energy heritage in the arctic, but it's also one of our greatest natural heritages.
the second is energy security itself.
apart from the fact that the black sea strategy seeks to ensure peace and stability in the region, the most important objective in the field of energy security is perhaps to ensure energy security itself, and as you heard yesterday, energy security is the other main priority of the hungarian presidency, so it is in the interest of all of us.
the deepening of the dialogue between the union and the black sea countries can be a major step forward in guaranteeing the security of energy supply in europe.
a transparent, non-discriminatory transport framework and a business environment that supports investment are not only important for the security of supply of the eu member states, but also of paramount importance for the stability and prosperity of the region.
i consider it a priority to achieve peace and stability in the region, and the nabucco project should not be seen as a negligible guarantee of energy security.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, i am pleased that the european council is discussing together the issue of energy security and innovation.
there is no doubt that energy security cannot be negotiated without innovation.
we are of course in favour of a north-south pipeline being built alongside the east and west lines, but this will not solve the energy supply problems that are arising.
the only way to minimise dependence in the long term is to shift the focus from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources.
it is in this spirit that i regret that the renewable energy issue is not sufficiently highlighted as one of the priorities for innovation.
in this context, we must focus on two things in particular: firstly, renewable energy must be affordable, so that the population is not charged extra for using renewable energy.
secondly, in order to prevent the dependence outside the european union from being converted into dependence within the european union, it is necessary to include the old member states, which are currently major renewable energy powers, such as belgium, the netherlands or austria, and therefore the more backward newly joined countries, such as hungary, poland and the czech republic, in the list of renewable energy sources.
only by closely linking energy security and innovation can a prospective energy crisis affecting europe be avoided.
affordable and accessible energy is in the interest of all eu member states.
the european union must make use of all possible sources of energy.
hungarian-born nobel prize winner professor george oláh has discovered the methanol energy economy.
there is no methanol-based energy economy in the union at all, although it is extremely cheap, as it produces energy from carbon dioxide, water and electricity, which can be used to run cars, generate electricity, heat and other sources.
the energy summit on february 4th could be a real breakthrough, because words and deeds are finally meeting.
i hope that the results will be as expected and that on 4 february we will witness the birth of a genuine common european energy policy.
i consider it extremely important that waste electrical and electronic equipment is disposed of properly.
increasing the proportion of waste collected separately is also essential, but it is important that the entire recycling process can be traced through appropriate documentation.
however, it should be noted that member states, especially the newly acceded ones, do not yet have sufficient recycling facilities and that emphasis should be placed on their development in order to ensure that the waste collected is treated in a truly professional manner.
the current revision of the waste electrical and electronic equipment directive is of great importance not only from the point of view of environmental protection and public health, but also from the point of view of resource efficiency, which is so much talked about today.
it is well known that the union is the destination of a large number of illegal shipments of e-waste every year, and it is therefore in the vital interest of our industry that member states keep valuable raw materials within the union by professionally collecting and, where possible, recycling their increasing amounts of e-waste.
in view of all this, the rapporteur, recognising this problem, was able to secure a widely supported compromise in which the basis for the collection targets was not the quantity of products placed on the market but the quantity of electronic waste generated.
time is the only resource which is not renewable.
but i think it is acceptable for the future to focus on renewable energy sources and not to increase but to reduce as much as possible the role of nuclear energy in the energy supply.
this is also essential for the european union in terms of energy security.
however, it is questionable how the sometimes conflicting objectives of the danube strategy, such as water quality, environmental improvement, navigability, energy recovery and ecotourism, can be reconciled.
all other benefits - from transport to energy production - can only be secondary to the importance of water as a strategic asset.
i therefore believe that when the interests of water protection and energy production, or of water protection and inland waterway transport, may conflict in the practical implementation of the strategy, this first priority should be given priority.
but whatever the type of change, it's very important that the sustainability of your retirement, the stability of your retirement, the dignity of your retirement, is the main consideration.
unfortunately, the pension systems of the member states do not really reach this social group, which is not sustainable.
all of this means that a sustainable pension system does not exist at present.
we also have to compare in what kind of environment in europe we are operating.
should we go for the system we have in the commission, where we are trying to create a conducive environment and managerial incentives for those dgs which can actually fulfil the goals established for women?
the following is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the world bank's energy strategy (o-000020/2011 - b70012/2011) by ms eva joly on behalf of the committee on development.
− mr president, this is very important to our debate, even if it is late at night, because i think the world bank’s energy strategy is an opportunity.
it is a genuine opportunity to respond to energy challenges.
if we also look at what the international energy agency is saying about energy poverty, about renewable energy, it is certainly a huge challenge, but the world bank, together with our leadership, could make the necessary change.
if we go back a couple of years in our union’s history, our renewable energy target seemed impossible to meet, even if it was a rather humble target of 18%, if i recall correctly.
there will be the world bank energy week in washington.
i would say it is still access to energy that we should be looking at, because access to energy also means sustainable and efficient energy.
the recent trends in the countries we are working with show huge urbanisation, so in a way it has changed the pattern of the whole energy riddle.
it means not only decentralised generation, but also agglomeration areas, so energy efficiency, strange as it sounds, should also be part of the strategy.
we have energy facilities: eur 200 million.
you cannot do too much on energy with eur 200 million.
we need to envisage long-term funding, because i believe europe’s trademark should be renewable energy.
with this, and the capacities of the world bank, we really could do something that matters, not only for energy supply but also in terms of taking substantial steps to combat climate change.
this role is reinforced by the three agreements concluded between croatia and the hungarian government on strengthening the security of energy supply, joint exploration of cross-border hydrocarbon fields and storage of oil reserves.
as a member of the committee on industry, i would like to highlight the energy issue among the projects being implemented in these regions.
in the future, the focus will be on sectors such as health, education, environmental infrastructure, water supply, waste water treatment, sustainable transport development, and climate change mitigation and adaptation.
all these countries are encouraged to cooperate in areas such as water transport, social protection and development, sustainable economic development, transport and energy infrastructure, environmental protection, tourism, culture and education.
fresh resources are needed to finance the construction of energy and transport networks, the fight against climate change and measures to promote social inclusion, without imposing additional burdens on taxpayers who are suffering from the consequences of austerity measures.
the commission's director-general has also confessed to me that when he did not ask our trading partners to meet the same environmental, plant and animal health and animal welfare criteria in the wto negotiations, he was misinterpreting the mandate.
as the socialist group leader and draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, i congratulate mr häusling and thank him for his excellent cooperation.
and we don't really see any breakthrough opportunities, because neither our climate nor the cap's support system is encouraging the cultivation of crustaceans.
because it's in all of our interests to prove that it's possible to change the way we think about our environment.
in return, the bureaucracy has created a legal, institutional and economic environment, along with a banking system, that seeks to make it impossible for smes to operate.
we were thinking of introducing a pilot project and putting aside a bit of money, under the committee on industry, research and energy, to run this and to finance the impact assessment from eu funds.
gas produced using non-conventional technologies could play a key role in the eu energy market in the future.
it is also important that the deployment of new gas sources within the union could contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective manner.
in addition to the different geographical features, investors face greater regulatory and environmental risks in europe.
the commission promised to make environmental insurance compulsory for hazardous plants.
compared to high-speed trains, the aircraft offers zero minimum time advantage for check-in, airport transfer and huge carbon dioxide and noise pollution.
but the only real solution is to transform transportation, energy policy and industrial policy, because volcanic eruptions do not disrupt rail transportation, or only very locally.
but i also want to express my opinion that it is not wise to oppose the use of nuclear energy to such tragedies and others like them.
at the same time, i feel it is necessary and i support the commission's proposal to draw up guidelines which will also provide the basis for a coordinated and well-functioning european safety system and guarantee the continued safe production of nuclear energy for the future.
nuclear research and development needs to provide answers, better than today, to how we can manage nuclear waste, which is a 60-year history that we live with.
in addition to the devastating social and environmental consequences, this would also have a serious impact on the national budget and the european economy.
in addition, the scheme would also benefit the payers by allowing them to apply for aid for their safety and environmental investments from the unused funds through calls for tenders.
the people of europe must learn from this disaster and, by returning as much as possible to nature, to natural food, to natural energy sources, preserve our environment for future generations.
consideration should also be given to how sustainability considerations could be integrated into the tariff preference system.
because today, countries that are already blocking the adoption of climate agreements on the international stage, or are actually exporting unsustainably produced products to the european union, often by clearing out rainforests or emitting huge amounts of co2, are also getting trade concessions.
promoting employment, innovation, research and development, energy strategy objectives and social inclusion, in particular by reducing poverty.
the energy summit in february was a real breakthrough.
strengthening the common energy market and developing infrastructure will finally lead to a common european energy policy.
this case also demonstrated the need to reduce energy waste and to gradually shift the focus to renewable energy sources.
the disaster shook the world's energy and commodity markets.
it will determine the political and economic environment in the long run.
we must increase r & d investment and we must strengthen diversification in european energy policy!
however it is very clear that the economic and social marginalisation of the roma persists, and this is neither acceptable nor sustainable in the european union of the 21st century.
the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth is the right policy context for addressing the multifaceted problems facing roma.
the key message is that excluding millions of eu citizens from economic and social life is not smart, is not sustainable and is certainly not inclusive.
there is huge scope for savings on energy costs.
we waste a tremendous amount of energy every year.
i particularly agree that we should do r&amp;d to get rid of the nuclear waste of the last 60 years.
and one thing i particularly agree with is that whatever we decide on energy, we must insist that 500 million europeans have access to electricity.
the japanese experience is expected to lead to a number of countries rethinking their nuclear energy strategies.
if, as a result of the events in japan, several member states across europe are also rethinking their nuclear energy strategy, this could have a significant impact on european energy markets, as nuclear power plants will have to be replaced by other sources of electricity.
europe needs to think carefully about the impact of a rethinking of its nuclear strategy on the energy market.
the most important question is what further measures europe is planning to take to ensure the safety of nuclear energy production.
the eib focused its activities on the three areas most affected by the crisis, smes, convergence regions and climate action.
so instead of wanting to get new national driving licences after the fiasco, or waste billions of euros on new mammoth authorities, they should recognise that europe cannot exist as a united states of europe and that the more power they put in the hands of brussels, the less effective it will be.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, the apparently strict eu legislation on hazardous waste contains many loopholes in practice, which are well exploited by organised crime groups, such as the hazardous waste mafia.
the solution must be two-pronged: reduce the administrative burden on businesses that recover and dispose of hazardous waste legally, and, of course, encourage hazardous waste producers to take the legal route, and make them interested in curbing the hazardous waste mafia.
on the other hand, the penal sanctions for environmental crime must be radically tightened up and controls uniformly increased at eu level.
the innovation union can play a role in reshaping europe's crisis-hit economy, guided by sustainable job creation.
europe's future sustainable growth and innovation can only be guaranteed if everyone contributes to it, if all countries move in the same direction.
and this is an investment to achieve the eu2020 goals of increasing employment levels in order to create a more accessible, inclusive and sustainable society.
my colleague mr le joinen has produced an excellent report which is important from a national, environmental, social, agricultural and other point of view.
how can we measure the evolution of energy efficiency, water efficiency in the member states of the european union if we don't have reliable statistics?
and as a member of the committee on agriculture, i think it is very important in the reform of the cap that we finally know what the real social benefits are of the environmental public goods produced by farmers.
without statistics, we cannot know how farmers contribute to the protection of the air, the cropland, the land and the environment through their agricultural activities, and how they produce environmental public goods which are not yet paid for by the market or the common agricultural policy.
this statistical report is therefore highly progressive and forward-looking from an environmental and agricultural point of view.
the three key areas for economic growth are 'smart growth' focusing on knowledge, innovation, education and the digital society, 'sustainable growth' promoting more efficient use of resources and enhancing competitiveness, and 'inclusive growth' enhancing labour market participation.
i propose that, like the hungarian constitution, the rights of future generations be constitutionally protected by making environmental, fiscal and demographic sustainability constitutional principles.
or can you name any constitutions - if you read the current hungarian constitution, the new hungarian constitution adopted in april - that contain more and more far-reaching environmental and next generation clauses than the new hungarian constitution?
according to the ombudsman for future generations, it raises environmental protection and responsibility for future generations to an extraordinary level.
the first is to rethink the importance of russian energy imports, and the second is to extend the partnership agreement to include eu representatives as observers in the presidential elections in december and march 2013. as we can see, energy imports to russia are likely to increase as more nuclear power plants in europe will be shut down after the stress tests are conducted.
if we don't take over their energy products, then there could be some very serious stability problems for the russian economy as well.
finally, commissioner, protection against cyberattacks or terrorist attacks must be created in the european union in all sectors that may result in cross-border emissions of hazardous substances.
it is important to maintain the two-pillar structure, to maintain direct payments and, in particular, a strong rural development policy, to improve competitiveness and to strengthen environmental awareness.
putting public goods that protect the environment, technologies that reduce the effects of climate change, and technologies that enhance biodiversity and water management at the heart of rural development.
for 60 years, we've been using nuclear technology to generate energy, to make medicine, to operate submarines or icebreakers.
for 60 years, we have not been able to provide effective solutions for the management and long-term storage of hazardous waste.
although we have different views on energy production, we agree that the principle of 'polluter pays' means that waste generated in the european union must be stored here even if it can be reprocessed in a third country.
we support the reduction of waste to a minimum and, if the results of r&d allow, the possibility of further recycling, which is why the principle of recyclability is of paramount importance to us.
we must guarantee this, and this is closely linked to the safety of workers, which must also be a top priority during waste disposal, but we also think it is important to mention that the current legal basis does not provide a sufficient european solution, since we do not have the right to co-decide, and that is why we think it is important to look for a new legal basis in the future.
while the european union is working on how to store and bury so-called spent fuel cells, the united states and russia are looking at them as economical energy sources.
radioactive waste is produced in all eu member states, so in order to protect citizens and the environment, it is necessary to ensure not only the spent fuel from nuclear power plants, but also the safe and efficient management of radioactive waste in general.
i agree that the use of nuclear energy is a national responsibility.
however, the formulation of eu principles on national waste management rules has a place.
in the absence of such a system, the divergent rules have led to the interest of operators in having their radioactive waste treated in the countries with the most permissive rules.
in view of all this, the initiative of member states to establish mandatory waste management programmes is a good one.
however, this requires the designation of competent authorities that strictly supervise nuclear waste management activities and, where appropriate, are able to sanction violations appropriately.
finally, the total management of spent fuel and radioactive waste is a very costly activity.
it is an important principle that the necessary financial resources are earmarked for the management of nuclear waste at the time of its generation.
i agree that the costs of waste management should be borne by the producer of waste.
this provides a proper incentive for operators to reduce and manage radioactive waste effectively.
the european union, and hungary within it, can only maintain its leading role in the fight against climate change by introducing new technological and economic solutions and by continuing to innovate.
the country still has billions of dollars worth of carbon dioxide allowance assets that the government should urgently proceed with the sale.
it is therefore not clear why the new hungarian rural strategy excludes support for the production of agricultural raw materials for energy purposes.
it is time for the hungarian government to commit to expanding the use of renewable energy and support innovative domestic developments.
the european union, which currently accounts for only 12% of global greenhouse gas emissions, will not be able to stop climate change on its own.
in the large emerging economies, such as china, brazil, india or russia, environmental awareness is growing and huge markets can open up for european companies in the alternative energy sectors.
however, european companies will only be competitive in these markets if they are encouraged to innovate and develop continuously in the european regulatory environment.
so we need a really ambitious carbon reduction target.
with the accession of the new member states, the eu27 is already 17% below its 1990 level of emissions thanks to its favourable carbon footprint.
we want to use the 5% flexibility allowed in point 37 of the interinstitutional agreement to finance the competitiveness and innovation framework programme, the trans-european transport network and the trans-european energy network.
to increase the effectiveness of cohesion policy, it is essential to simplify the current highly complex regulatory system, to provide a uniform interpretation of rules and obligations, to make the regulatory environment predictable and to clearly define responsibilities.
the key energy challenge of the decade is to guarantee affordable, secure and sustainable energy for all european citizens.
however, we cannot expect to achieve a breakthrough unless we have an efficient energy infrastructure with adequate flexibility.
as the report emphasises, the energy density of the energy transmission networks in the countries of south-eastern europe is not adequate.
it is in europe's interest that alternative supply and transit routes reduce the region's unilateral vulnerability, increase its market liquidity and allow for proper competition between different energy sources.
the criteria include diversification of transit routes and sources, market integration and increased liquidity, elimination of energy islands and integration of renewable energy into the grid.
the commission estimates that eur 200 billion of investment is needed in the energy transmission sector alone by 2020. eu funds are expected to cover only a fraction of the total financing needs, so it is essential to create a stable regulatory environment and new innovative financing instruments to stimulate private sector investment.
unfortunately, there is currently insufficient scientific evidence on the long-term environmental and ecological effects of the cultivation.
bioenergy production would be a consideration, but unfortunately there is no clear research on long-term environmental, health effects.
it is not clear why the right wing opposed the interests of the liquor lobby to prevail, when it would have been extremely important to indicate the energy content of alcoholic beverages.
the european parliament, two months ago, in the context of the protein deficit, has already accepted, on the basis of the opinion of the environment committee, that we should review the ban on animal protein sources for non-ruminants.
this not only increases the vulnerability of european livestock farmers, but also raises serious environmental and climate concerns.
moreover, in most parts of the continent, the climate does not allow the production of the most competitive protein crop, soybeans.
at the same time, the use of animal protein could reduce the demand for soybean imports and thus make european livestock production more sustainable and profitable.
i appreciate that, after a series of failed initiatives, the polish government is finally looking to boost relations with our eastern neighbours, with the continuation of the enlargement process and the creation of energy security as its main objectives.
the only solution for real and sustainable peace is dialogue and compromise, together with a shift in thinking, so that all actors reflect on the needs of others and the suffering of their people.
in addition azerbaijan has used the money from its energy wealth to acquire a major quantity of modern weaponry; armenia has likewise made military preparations.
the wto has also not taken into account the changes in climate policy over the last ten years.
it is very difficult to imagine any new trade regulation system that does not address climate protection issues.
scientists then came together to figure out how to recycle the red mud tanks as waste.
meanwhile, in romania, a corrupt mining project threatening environmental and natural disaster is being politically refocused.
i ask my romanian and hungarian colleagues to work together to protect our common carpathian basin environment.
member states need to adequately address the multiple discrimination that older women are facing in seeking access to employment, also by exchanging best practices in improving the quality of working conditions of older women in order to create for them a sustainable and healthy workplace.
our common objective is to achieve a single european energy market by 2014. we want a single european energy market because we believe that this is in the interests of european consumers, since it is the only way to keep energy prices under control, increase security of supply and prevent trade abuses.
in the field of wholesale energy, the remit report fills one such regulatory gap.
a significant proportion of energy products are now internationally traded.
thanks to this legislation, the energy agency will now have detailed information on wholesale transactions that have not been publicly disclosed.
this legislation will now allow only registered wholesalers to trade energy in countries where no licensing system is currently in place.
the task is clear: to help optimise energy use, to help develop a reasonable infrastructure and to protect consumers.
the european union is doing better than expected in reducing its carbon emissions, according to the latest projections from the european commission.
largely due to the reduction in carbon dioxide emissions, the european union can reduce its emissions by up to 25% by 2020 through implementation of the energy and climate package adopted in 2006. at the same time, as this proposal and this draft resolution very rightly state, it is important to focus on non-carbon based greenhouse gases.
and the greenhouse effect of methane is 25 times that of carbon dioxide, and almost 300 times that of nitrous oxide.
reducing the use of fertilisers in crop production and using them more spatially and temporally can significantly contribute to reducing nitrogen oxide emissions.
i was a rapporteur on this in 2008 and i think it is very important that the new cap introduces a greening component in the first pillar, direct payments, from 2014, which can reduce methane and nitrogen oxide emissions from agriculture.
mr president, most of the attention attracted by the arab spring has focused on internal developments, and rightly so, but from the perspective of the middle eastern region as a whole, it is vital to recognise that the arab spring is also transforming the geostrategic environment.
if we are determined to build a green, energy-efficient and smart economy, then we must also align our r & d and innovation resources with this.
in today's difficult economic environment, it is vital to maximise the potential for job creation.
the development of tourism, making it sustainable and attractive, therefore plays a key role in many regions of europe.
in addition, the scheme would also benefit the payers by allowing them to apply for aid for their safety and environmental investments from the unused funds through calls for tenders.
the second question is: will the commission accept full political, moral and financial responsibility if, as a result of delay, another environmental disaster occurs anywhere in europe?
this requires that people with different disabilities can participate in education, employment, access to various basic services and goods, and we must create an environment that allows them to live independently.
i joined the green paper debate on the modernisation of eu public procurement policy as a shadow rapporteur for the people's party in the environment committee.
i am pleased to say that there was broad agreement in our committee that by encouraging the wider use of environmentally friendly so-called 'green public procurement', we can make real progress towards a resource-efficient and low-carbon economy.
in view of all this, i believe that in future public procurement, rules on sustainability should be given greater emphasis.
one of the main means of doing this is to end the monopoly of the lowest price for the award criteria and to create instead the possibility of selecting the most economically advantageous tender, taking into account the full life-cycle cost of the services and the environmental benefits.
the opinion of the committee on the environment therefore recommends that, where the product or service advertised for procurement is also available locally, the proximity principle should be used to maintain the procedure for local smes, thereby reducing the environmental impact of the procurement, such as co2 emissions from transport.
today's questions to the commission on the small business package show that we still have a lot of work to do to ensure that this european business community can actually operate in a growth-friendly market environment.
so i ask the commission: are you prepared to come up with a proposal in which you can pass on best practice in the future, not in a static environment, of course, but in a dynamic, crisis-ridden environment?
they cannot be excluded from the labour market either, and inclusion in employment is the basis for sustainable development.
this is the only way to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
deputising for ivailo kalfin, rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
− mr president, first of all i would like to apologise as mr kalfin, who is our rapporteur, cannot be here, and i have to share with you his opinion, or rather our opinion in the committee on industry, research and energy.
europe cannot emerge from the current crisis by itself if all efforts are made to put the economies of the eu member states on a growth path but the energy investment that goes with it is not realised.
the beekeeping sector contributes to the whole of agriculture and to the conservation of biodiversity through pollination.
in other words, the beekeeping sector generates important environmental public goods, which is why we must support the beekeeping sector from community funds.
even if it's a formula, now that we've seen the impact of beekeeping on food security and biodiversity, i think we should take the advice of albert einstein.
crisis management must not therefore overshadow but strengthen anti-poverty measures, since they are indispensable for ensuring the sustainable and inclusive growth enshrined in the europe 2020 strategy.
we must therefore consider how sustainable planning based on a regional development indicator based solely on gdp is when the overall picture covers the poverty corners.
the amount of money available is only 10 million euros, which has to be multiplied, because we don't even know if it's an infectious disease or environmental damage.
we, in the ppe group, will support you as you apply this test on how to create a better economic environment and on how to create jobs and growth in the european union.
it's quite clear that a pragmatism is beginning to gain ground in this room, that climate policy has failed, that a new concept needs to be developed.
mr. florenz, and i agree with them, that we must make a decisive effort to promote energy efficiency, to develop renewable energy technologies and to cooperate with china, america and others.
but the fate of global emissions trading is also important, especially for the new member states, because the new member states have a lot of climate assets.
it is clear that this total climate wealth cannot be carried forward, but it would be very good to find a worthy solution, since the new member states of the union have made many sacrifices, many jobs have been lost by contributing to global climate protection.
i think it is imperative that every responsible european politician should feel that the protection of the environment is a matter of the heart.
i, too, have a heart to heart on climate change, but it's a global issue, and global problems require global answers.
it's very nice that the european union is leading the way in this fight, but let's face it, there's little to be gained by slovenia, estonia or hungary, if they follow strict climate protection rules, other than by setting an example.
it is not that the european union is the main source of shortcomings, but that a minimum climate protection framework should be set up in durban and that somehow, through diplomatic means, the united states, china and india should be forced to take decisive action to protect the climate.
it is deeply disappointing to me that the eu's climate policy over the past two years has been more like a dialogue of the deaf than a cooperation of the understanding and commitment of each other's interests.
and when it comes to showcasing the eu's great emissions reduction achievements to global negotiators, they need the new member states' excellent record of over-achieving their kyoto commitments!
however, in the meantime, many of the old member states have vigorously developed their industries and increased their carbon dioxide emissions.
i think that no one is saying that any of these are bad, that they are wrong, but we cannot ignore the fact that the economic and social climate in europe has changed dramatically in recent years.
i therefore call on the commission to establish as soon as possible a european credit rating agency, which is really aware of the mood of european markets and which is fundamentally interested in the recovery of the european economy, in order to create a stable and predictable european economic climate that can be seen as a guarantee for the future.
in the medium term, however, investment-enhancing policies are needed to accelerate sustainable economic growth in europe, primarily through spending on energy efficiency, the development of renewable energy sources, research and development, education and health.
without stable and sustainable economic growth, it is impossible to renew the european social model and at least partially preserve its main achievements.
complex, flexible and sustainable programmes are necessary, with longer time coverage and greater territorial relevance, focusing on the most disadvantaged micro-regions.
for years, internationally recognized energy scientists have warned that our planet is running out of hydrocarbons and coal, and that within ten years there will be a global energy crisis, the effects of which are sadly already being felt.
and that solves the problem of carbon dioxide emissions right away.
with the euratom strand ahead, we aim to complement and simplify other research policy actions of the union needed to implement the europe 2020 strategy, in particular those related to education, training and employment, competitiveness, innovation and the environment.
competitiveness, innovation and the environment secondly, the framework programme should contribute to the implementation of the innovation union, a flagship initiative of the europe 2020 strategy.
it should strengthen competition for scientific excellence to accelerate the implementation of key innovations in nuclear energy, while playing an appropriate role in addressing the challenges of the energy sector and climate change.
in addition to combating illegal fishing, there is therefore a need to promote freshwater fisheries as the most sustainable form of fishing.
however, i believe it is important to pay due attention to the europe 2020 strategy and the eu's energy policy, as well as to short- and medium-term crisis management.
it is gratifying to see that efforts to achieve the eu energy market continue at the level of investment despite financial difficulties.
this is illustrated by the signing of a declaration of intent by the eastern european countries on the eve of the energy council last week to establish a north-south energy corridor.
the basic objective of the participating member states is to reduce the region's dependence on imports by enabling the north-south transport of energy.
in the case of central and eastern european energy markets, the infrastructure is not adequate and the flow of energy is often not smooth.
it also highlights that there is no time to delay if we want to achieve a truly functioning single energy market by 2014.
madam president, please.
i believe that other countries can draw new energy from croatia's achievements to meet the challenges they face.
they are not reliable in terms of their feedback on the business environment, but they can cause billions of dollars in damage.
constitutional provisions now state that hungary operates according to the principle of balanced, transparent and sustainable budgetary management.
in order to manage the consequences of the recession and to be able to develop a sustainable economic policy, stricter budgetary control is essential.
the agreement would represent a new quality in the relations between the european union and ukraine and could be considered as an important step towards a free trade agreement between the european union and ukraine, closer cooperation in the field of energy and visa-free travel for ukraine.
it's very important to us that a project that promotes both a knowledge-based economy, a new type of energy economy and a carbon-reducing solution is finally being addressed in its own right.
the polish presidency has also mobilised a great deal of energy policy.
finally, we continue to work with all our might to achieve the single market, which can reduce the disparities between the energy markets of the member states.
i have had the opportunity to stress my view on several occasions before that an inclusive, sustainable, modern, environmentally friendly and efficient transport system is urgently needed.
the intelligent energy europe programme is an excellent initiative from an absolutely credible source.
there is no longer any doubt that the eu's energy strategies will be delivered, and that the eu's competitiveness will indeed soar, soon overtaking emerging countries and perhaps later the rest of the world.
and of course, all of this in a totally sustainable way.
the first step is to immediately repair the broken backbone of the energy system, as i have said many times in previous speeches.
once the sick energy sector, especially electricity generation, is back on its feet, it is time to tackle the beautification, i.e.
the 'intelligent energy for europe' programme.
unfortunately, only 2% of the population can afford the so-called green energy at a real price, and maybe the other 98% should be considered at some point.
madam president, we have the eu 2020 strategy, we have a programme called intelligent energy europe, we have an institution called the executive agency for competitiveness and innovation and the elena facility, and the commissioner is saying to us that the best way ahead is to cut all these things.