furthermore, we have a policy of encouraging the growth of energy crops on good agricultural land.
– as we begin to consider what the final make-up will be of the cap post-2013, the themes of food security, food shortages and sustainability are coming ever more to the fore.
as such, our vision must be narrowed: the sustainability of food and the needs of those who do not have automatic access to food must be put first; farming practices and innovations should be geared towards more food, and the correct crops; and, as we draft the new cap bill, we should finally ensure that the new cap will work towards a carbon-free europe, and one which does not exacerbate the current carbon problem.
the agricultural sector must meet a growing population’s need for safe and sufficient food despite the obstacles of limited natural resources, high energy prices and climate change.
it is reprehensible that young people in lithuania coping with their emerging sexuality – which is a difficult enough time – must now do so in a climate of intolerance and fear.
there are benefits, particularly for producers who are going to gain by it, but there are also concerns – concerns about the impact on the environment and particularly concerns about the impact on producers in the european union.
i welcome the proposal of stronger provisions which seek to prevent illegal shipments of this waste and to close loopholes in the law.
i am pleased with the alde amendment which exempts micro-enterprises – that is businesses employing less than 10 people and with a turnover of less than two million – from the requirement to take back all small volume waste.
in the 2020 strategy we have put much emphasis particularly on renewable energies, and that is only right.
but equally important in meeting our targets will be energy efficiency, particularly in relation to motor vehicles – private and commercial.
through a directive like this we can help to comply with the 2020 strategy in relation to fuel efficiency because it will compel designers to produce more fuel-efficient engines, and while the cost may be big in the short term, the savings in terms of miles per gallon travelled, and also in terms of the environment, are huge.
this is the bottom line: smes need access to credit and they are not getting that for a number of reasons, perhaps because banks are looking for more collateral than they can provide, or sometimes smes just do not want to risk borrowing in the current climate when there is no growth.
mr president, i suppose one could say that those of us who are still here at this hour of the night are probably powered by some form of renewable energy, perhaps solar power or maybe even divine power in the form of a halo above our heads.
whether countries are in the developing world or the developed world, if they have resources of fossil fuel – coal – or nuclear energy, they are going to utilise them.
we want to push the renewable agenda, and that is absolutely correct.
but i think in doing that, mr martin is probably right in one sense that we need to speak with a louder voice and push the world bank into promoting and financing more renewable energy projects than they are perhaps doing right now.
what systems will they put in place using some combination of the three pillars to ensure that their pension systems are sustainable?
the challenge for us as policy-makers is how to increase food production in a sustainable way, how to produce more from less, how to manage our stocks and how to deal with the issue of stock dislocation that the commissioner has identified.
mr president, i have no difficulty with the european union investing in projects outside the european union, particularly in aspects like combating climate change.
this is not sustainable, it is not fair and i do not think it is legal.
lastly, the carbon tax: i have some concerns about this, but at least we are debating these very important issues in this house and tomorrow we will take a vote on them.
it is estimated that a low-rate ftt could yield nearly eur 200 billion per year at eu level and usd 650 billion at global level, constituting a substantial contribution by the financial sector to the cost of the crisis and to public finance sustainability.
secondly, in relation to the issue of the mediterranean and the black sea, both are literally aquaculture and environmental paradises.
the atlantic region is one of the world’s richest and most underdeveloped areas in terms of wind and wave energy.
it is estimated that by 2050, up to 50% of europe’s electricity supply could be provided by renewable energy generated off the atlantic coast.
there are two points which i would like to concentrate on: one is tourism potential and the other is energy.
where energy is concerned, by 2050 we will need far more renewable energy than we have now.
problems facing the region and areas we need to address include environmental threats (water pollution, floods, climate change), untapped shipping potential and lack of road and rail transport connections, insufficient energy connections, uneven socio-economic development, uncoordinated education, research and innovation systems, shortcomings in safety and security.
you will destroy our environment.
also, may i add a few words about climate change consistency.
the carbon footprint of brazilian beef is four times that of irish beef, so please read this report.
the commission is aware of the report of the federal environment agency and it has of course been subject to further in-depth examination of the facts.
the whole thing is based on this: following the 2007 european council decision and subsequent decisions of the european parliament and the energy council, i.e.
after extensive consultation in parliament and the member states, the commission presented its proposal for an ecodesign regulation in 2009. it provides for the gradual switch from conventional light bulbs to more efficient and thus more energy-saving light bulbs.
the process of identifying the relevant issues from the study of the german federal environmental agency has led us to ask the scientific committee on health and environmental risks for an opinion once again.
it is clear that children deserve to be considered independently, which is why we will also obtain relevant findings for children as soon as possible in cooperation with the federal environment agency.
i am in contact with the federal environmental agency so that we can jointly evaluate other series of measurements of the federal environmental agency as soon as possible.
this could achieve both the environmental and energy-saving objectives of the regulation on the one hand and the elimination of all hazards on the other.
the ccctb is scheduled for adoption by the college of commissioners on 16 march 2011. i am convinced that the final proposal will greatly contribute to a better environment for businesses, growth and jobs in the eu.
i want in particular to draw attention to paragraph 112, which talks about free trade being the cornerstone of europe’s economic growth, but also talks about fair global competition and, in particular, urges that, when we come to do bilateral trade agreements or multilateral agreements, we must take account of the principles of sustainable development, social and environmental concerns and relevant standards in those agreements.
security of energy supply has to be the sine qua non of european energy policy as we go forward.
obviously and ideally, we would have this from renewable sources and we have our policies in that regard, but otherwise we have to look for it from other sources.
there are those who are concerned about the environment, but the european union’s record on the environment is second to none.
ask any farmer in europe and they will tell you how concerned we are about the environment and the measures we take to protect it.
− i voted to change the 2012 calendar to save taxpayers’ money, to save co2 emissions and to lessen the disruption to parliament business by the monthly trip to strasbourg.
the commissioner emphasised that all measures are weighed up against their effect on growth, competitiveness and the sustainability of public finances in the long run.
however it does not signal any agreement by the socialists and democrats group to the draconian austerity programmes expected of some member states without reference to their economic sustainability.
firstly, the interest rate charged is draconian and is not sustainable.
it is in the interest of both ireland and the european union to ensure that our debt is sustainable.
i welcome plans for tests and would like to stress that they must conclude with common rules between member states on the security of nuclear power plants and on the storing of highly toxic nuclear waste.
in order to ensure the continued provision of sufficient energy for the eu, investments in renewable energy production and increased energy efficiency must also be approved.
the commission brought out a very good document on energy efficiency a few weeks ago.
in view of that, it seems foolhardy to be pursuing a mercosur agreement, especially as the swedish institute for food and technology pointed out that the carbon footprint of brazilian beef can be 35 times higher than that of irish beef.
this support and counselling service is one of many across the east of ireland offering vital support for victims of sexual and domestic violence, yet it has to cope with a very difficult funding environment.
madam president, the commission’s secretary-general, catherine day, recently described the irish bank bailout as ‘tough but sustainable’.
would the commission describe that as ‘tough but sustainable’?
debt sustainability for ireland is critical for ireland and europe and the quartet must get real on this issue.
the eu likes to portray itself as a force for human rights and environmental protection.
these credits are regularly used to back projects and trade that are destructive to the environment and workers’ rights.
the books must be opened up so that the workers and those affected by them can see for the first time where the money has gone and workers’ control must be exercised on the operation of these agencies so that their massive resources are used for the benefit of working people, small farmers and the environment.
these ngos offer vital support for victims of sexual and domestic violence, yet have to cope with a very difficult funding environment.
those who can harness these technologies in europe will also be able to make our industries more competitive and will be at the forefront of the shift to a low-carbon, resource-efficient and knowledge-based economy.
yet we see that both iceland and the faroe islands have caught 150 000 tonnes each and this is impacting directly on the sustainability of european fishing fleets.
there is therefore a huge area for us to deal with, in particular because the commissioner herself earlier this afternoon in question time painted a somewhat grim picture of the sustainability of fish stocks and coastal communities into the future.
secondly, for energy as a single market in europe, the european super grid, which is a long-term project, is absolutely vital.
sustainable fishing must be our guiding principal.
it has obviously gone further than that and is about the energy mix.
could i suggest that we have that debate when the commission brings forward its roadmap on energy?
will you ensure that they are carried out on all nuclear plants, including waste and reprocessing facilities, because i have a particular concern about sellafield, which is close to the irish border?
let us move to another stage of looking at the energy mix.
the recent nuclear accident in japan, which we were told could never happen, demonstrates yet again that current nuclear energy production is potentially catastrophic.
its by-product, radioactive waste, is already a lethal threat to human health, effectively for ever.
rather than investing billions of euros in new nuclear plants, we need to invest that money in developing renewable energy sources.
the tragedy of fukushima underlines the huge danger that nuclear power represents for humanity and for the environment.
the potential for massive catastrophe and the lack of a safe way to dispose of spent nuclear fuel means that nuclear power does not represent a safe means to develop energy production.
the tragedy also underlines the fact that private profiteers cannot be trusted with the vital task of energy production and energy distribution.
ultimately, the capitalist pursuit of profit, without regard for human life, human safety or the environment, is responsible for this crisis.
i call for the nationalisation of the energy sector under democratic worker control and management.
on that basis, we could develop a rational and sustainable plan for energy production, distribution and use, to provide cheap and safe energy for all, while protecting the environment.
at the centre of that plan there must be a long-term programme of investment in renewable energy sources leading to the progressive replacement of oil, gas, coal and nuclear power stations.
however, my firm conviction is that there is no such thing as safe nuclear power and that the stress tests taking place this year are a distraction from the real issue – the transition to a europe powered by renewable energy.
given the most recent studies, it is clear that it is technically possible that 95% of our energy supplies could come from renewables like wind, tidal, wave, solar and biomass by 2050. with that target in mind, and as we are now making long-term energy choices, we should be phasing out nuclear plants over the coming years across europe.
obviously, we must ensure security of supply of power in a sustainable way and we have an opportunity to look at alternative sources of power which we can exploit whilst at the same time helping the environment.
the topic before us is absolutely vital because forests have a huge role to play, particularly in combating climate change.
we hear a lot about high-profile issues such as renewable energy etc., which are certainly important, but forests deserve far more attention because it takes a long time to grow forests and they must therefore be protected and encouraged.
ireland, and in particular ireland south, has a thriving fishing industry and this agreement will help to fight against iuu fishing as one of the most serious global threats to the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources.
i think in many areas we do not have sufficient numbers in member states to correctly keep control and account of the transportation issue, in this case of toxic waste.
the consequences for the health and welfare of those who handle this waste in a very inappropriate way are extremely serious.
since forests are the main absorber of carbon, sustainable forest management is key to achieving the eu’s climate change goals.
we need to bring protection and production together in the management of our forests in order to ensure the viability of their environmental, social and economic functions.
they do not help them to recover, and they do not help debt sustainability.
in my last 30 seconds, could i ask the commission to address the issue of debt sustainability, for ireland and our colleagues who are in difficulty?
eur 270 million has already been drawn down by irish organisations in the agriculture, food, fisheries, health, energy, transport and ict sectors.
this was prompted by an answer given by the commissioner in her hearing, when she pointed out that one particular strain of salmonella was being researched by 40 different institutes – a clear case of a lack of joined-up thinking, and a waste of money.
ultimately, the solution will have to come from within the european union, with it becoming more self-sufficient in terms of more general energy supplies, obviously including renewable energies.
− the youth on the move (yom) programme represents an opportunity to unleash the potential of young people and enable them to contribute to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the eu.
− more investment in research and innovation is essential to guarantee a sustainable and competitive future for our economies.
the investment chapter would, outrageously, give corporations the right to sue governments when social or environmental policies cut across their profiteering.
these oil deposits produce more than three times the carbon emissions of conventional oil and their exploitation is also extremely damaging to the local environment and a threat to the first nations communities who live in the region.
there is an urgent need now for united action by the european and canadian trade union movement, with environmental and indigenous activists, to fight together and resist this proposed agreement.
the future instrument must ensure better integration of environmental and climate change issues in developing cooperation.
mr president, the general trend of this proposal is positive because we are in an era where we have to tackle climate change, etc.
in every possible area; all methods which lead to pollution have to be dealt with.
overall i welcome engos and gnss as they can make an important contribution to safety and environmental objectives and i believe adequate investment in the related research and development will be essential.
− in order to ensure sustainable development and appropriate environmental policies at eu level, it is essential that policy makers are provided with reliable data on the environmental impact of economic activities.
if the eu is serious about increasing recycling, reducing waste and limiting air emissions and climate change then it must take action.
the most effective way to achieve european goals in relation to sustainable development and environmental policies is through full cooperation across all member states.
the more accurate and reliable the information provided is, then the better our environmental policies will be.
we would have the resources for investment in research and development, fighting climate change and in building solidarity between the regions of the eu.
we are on the periphery of europe, with two sea bridges to mainland europe where all of these extra charges for road use and pollution are going to apply.
to reduce carbon emissions from vehicles is very commendable; to reduce heavy goods vehicle congestion is very commendable; and the spending of 15% of the tolls on infrastructure is very commendable.
research and innovation are central to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth so investment in r&d is the best possible response.
the failure today inside and outside the eu to comply with basic international social standards constitutes a form of social and environmental dumping detrimental to both european enterprises and eu and non-eu workers and citizens.
− one of the most pressing challenges in the current economic climate is that of youth unemployment.
there is growing international recognition of the inadequacy of gdp as an indicator of social progress, social inclusion, environmental sustainability, and resource efficiency.
i support this report which calls for the development of clear and measurable indicators that take account of climate change, biodiversity, resource efficiency and social inclusion.
it further underlines the need to measure quality of life in societies, considering that achieving and sustaining quality of life involves important, consensual factors such as health, education, culture, employment, housing, and environmental conditions.
it also fully supports the establishment of a solid legal framework for the european environmental economic accounts as a positive step in the ‘gdp and beyond’ process, and, indeed, welcomes the commission initiative to present an index for environmental pressure, to be submitted alongside gdp.
major green investment is needed in areas like renewable infrastructure, with more wind farms in the north and solar energy in the south.
irish investment in wind energy will only pay off, for example, if there is european infrastructure to export that energy via the uk and france.
with oil prices rising and increasing environmental damage, we know the eu must now drive forward to a more sustainable society by becoming more energy efficient, by using more renewable energy, by investing in public transport and ensuring our children live in a clean and healthy environment.
the long term eu budget should also follow the agreed so-called eu 2020 strategic objectives, especially our internationally binding climate objectives.
cap should be reformed to pay farmers for the delivery of public goods, such as an attractive countryside rich in biodiversity.
we need to maintain the cap budget to ensure these vital environmental services are provided in ireland and across europe.
a strongly funded common agricultural policy will protect europe’s food security, contribute to our climate change targets and maintain employment in our rural communities.
productivity-enhancing policies, particularly those in green energy and research and development must be recognised as the driver of the eu’s economic future.
nevertheless, they do offer a great opportunity for tackling global issues like climate change and also, of course, a great opportunity to develop both our economies.
it is a policy that will deal with the challenges of food security; it is a policy that will deliver public goods, protect the environment and enhance biodiversity; and it is a vehicle for tackling climate change.
this is a sector with a wealth of potential for expansion, for growth in the economy, for research and innovation and for tackling climate change.
– as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and a committed environmental campaigner, i expected a deß report which would represent a cap for the carbon era – one based upon environmental incentives, resource management, and a strong investment in the wider environmental issues facing the eu.
given that the commission is broadly in agreement with the parliament’s proposals, i call on this house to make their voice heard in ensuring that the european council also supports this report’s environmental proposals.
if we do so, europe will be a better place: it will have more growth, more jobs, more renewable energy, more money being spent on innovation and more entrepreneurs.
structural funding is of immense use in tackling challenges in these regions and we must guarantee it continues to operate effectively, delivering sustainable and inclusive growth.
this report commented on the delays in project selection for areas such as the rail sector, energy, the environment, the digital economy, social inclusion, governance and capacity building.
− i supported this report on the proposal for a directive on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste.
the current directive only covers spent fuel storage facilities directly related to nuclear installations, the current proposal intends to assure safety in the long term of the management of existing and future radioactive waste.
indeed, many generations to come will remain at risk this report calls on member states to accept common minimum standards, invest in new technologies and, importantly, to ban nuclear waste export to third countries.
it will be recalled that in the past carbon emissions from some member states created acid rain in other countries.
europe has been using nuclear technology for more than 60 years and still there is no policy on management and disposal of nuclear waste.
the 12th congress of the international radiation protection association called for a regional approach to the transport of nuclear waste.
the sooner we become self-sufficient in terms of energy, the better we will be able to contribute to the entire world.
we need renewable energy – wind, wave, tidal, bio, solar.
it also proposes an active role for social economy enterprises and actors, urges that a race to the bottom be prevented through compliance by contractors and sub-contractors with member states’ social, environmental, and quality criteria, and looks for an eu statute on mutual societies.
i was happy to see some amendments carried from my own group, in particular amendment 44, where it states that the long-term environmental effects of gmo crops, as well as their potential effects on untargeted organisms, should be rigorously assessed.
also paragraph 47, which came from the alde group, was voted through and it allowed grounds such as the maintenance of local biodiversity and the need to ensure seed purity to be used.
the environment also suffers through the loss of biodiversity and the growth of weed resistance, which leads to the use of even more harmful pesticides and the crushing of sustainable farming.
− i support this report, and would argue in favour of introducing a commitment to reduce europe's greenhouse gas emissions by up to 30% by 2020. europe must show its commitment to combating climate change.
the best way to strengthen our hand in negotiations with other countries on the importance of fighting climate change is to have strong environmental protection measures in our own territories.
this report would send a clear message that europe is serious about combating climate change.
combating climate change is not only good for the environment, but can also lead to job creation and can have a positive effect on the eu economy.
europe’s environmental industry currently boasts a eur 227 billion turnover and 3.4 million jobs.
europe can be a leading light in the fight against climate change.
hopefully this will pave the way for the sustainability of the banking sector in ireland, which is one of the necessary conditions for the recovery of its economy.
the commission also sees the rationale for the merger of allied and ebs, as it clearly serves a financial stability purpose in the short term, which in the current climate is an advantage.
we have strict rules regarding protection of the environment and we have strict rules on ensuring animal welfare.
therefore we have not much time to waste.
during the summer i had the privilege of visiting alberta, where the oil sands are mainly located, as part of the european energy forum.
this does not just concern our food security needs, but also energy and climate issues.
they want to get access to raw materials at any cost, regardless of the devastating consequences which their extraction activities can have on indigenous communities, on the environment and on working class people.
my own country has not accessed this fund, and i would call on this country, ireland – and indeed all member states – to make use of this fund to help struggling smes, both in starting up and in becoming sustainable.
moreover, a clear regulatory environment and standards can help smaller auditors thrive and diversify this area of public interest.
all black sea coastal countries should support and enforce a new joint fisheries policy, based on long-term sustainability and co-ordinated efforts to protect stocks.
− the financial and economic crisis has deepened the problems for many potential entrepreneurs, especially in the first three years of business and highlights how the development of profitable smes by both men and women can help member states to achieve more sustainable economic growth.
− female entrepreneurs must often overcome discrimination in order to operate in what has traditionally been a male environment.
we have an energy market; we need to ensure that consumers are protected.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, our strategy, mr sartori, is to try to do a lot of work, especially for electric cars, for example, a very important sector where europe is at the forefront, but where more can also be done to combat climate change.
we will also be working a lot with the innovation partnership on, for example, raw materials, where we will be working on recycling and replacement, and thus research applied to industrial activity, also in a strong strategy of commitment against climate change.
if it works it would be good for consumers in terms of energy prices, but the energy challenge for europe is great.
we are significant importers of energy.
i would like to draw attention to a problem which has arisen in my own member state about agreeing a refit tariff (renewable energy feed in tariffs) for the renewable energy sector.
i supported this resolution because i think it is important that we raise awareness of not just concentrating on carbon and reducing co2 emissions.
just to mention that when it comes to energy efficiency as a way of reducing co2 emissions – which we all believe is the right way to go – we are failing to reach our targets and we really need to redouble our efforts in that respect.
the issue of non-co2 emissions is significant because it may indeed be a less costly way of tackling climate change.
i concur absolutely with paragraph 11 which calls for rigorous global implementation of air pollution regulations.
− i welcome mr karim’s report on the regulatory environment in operation in europe at the present time.
this report is particularly welcome in light of the current economic environment wherein unemployment and poor growth are prolific.
mr president, it seems ironic that today, 15 september, has been designated food safety day by the commission and we are focusing on the minimisation of food waste in the european union.
we waste upwards of 90 million tonnes of food a year, about 180 kg per person, and yet so many parts of the world have total food insecurity, as we are debating this morning.
the onus now is on the international community to create a safe environment in somalia which will permit all relevant agencies and authorities to spearhead a meaningful relief effort.
tobacco and alcohol consumption, unhealthy diets, lack of physical exercise and exposure to pollution often lead to otherwise preventable chronic diseases and premature deaths.
we need bold preventative measures, which are not only the most cost effective, but also bring positive knock-on effects on overall health, lifestyles, the environment, and even socio-economic equality.
many imported agriculture products are non-sustainable and the phasing out of cap incentives would kill local eu production, which is a stated aim of the rapporteur.
our right to food must be accompanied with a duty not to waste food.
i would note that two committees – the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on development – both point to the need to reduce the existing trade deficit with china and have increased access to this expanding market.
the chalmers university of technology in sweden published a report this year which showed that beef coming from brazil has carbon emissions of 700 kilograms per kilogram of beef, taking into account deforestation, etc.
bearing in mind this fact, and our commitment to reduce co2 emissions in the 2020 strategy, how can we even countenance a proposal to have agriculture included in a mercosur deal, especially beef products?
− honourable member, we do, of course, keep in mind the environment when we negotiate trade deals.
we should also look at the global balance with respect to climate change.
the commission and ms hedegaard are taking a leading role in this respect and are making the most advanced proposals by far at international conferences about climate change, for example at the club 17 in a couple of months.
the justification was for environmental reasons.
the panel said that, if the environmental reasons were valid for export, they were also valid locally, so this was not a valid answer to the questions put by the european union, the united states and mexico.
it was about abusing the environmental elements in it – the environmental explanation.
our right to food must be accompanied by a duty not to waste food.
my final comment – and, i think, a very important one – is that the right to food must always take precedence over energy security.
we in the eu often clap ourselves on the back about our alternative energy targets, but we must recognise the price that others may pay for the targets that we set.
this should hopefully make air services more efficient, thus improving the environment and at the same time lowering the cost of air services for consumers.
according to the evaluation report, the impact of the tuna fishing opportunities on sustainability is minimal.
however, there are a number of difficulties in the current economic climate in relation to finding resources at national and local level to co-finance projects under these schemes.
however, issues such as speculation in commodities, water shortages and climate change must also be addressed in order to promote agriculture.
we must not forget the potential of combined transatlantic strategies to shape labour, health, safety and environmental standards and international regulatory regimes in areas such as consumer rights and intellectual property rights.
mr president, i supported this report as part of the economic governance package and i was particularly pleased to see in article 1 that the coordination of economic policies in the union will, among other things, aim at achieving sustainable growth and social cohesion.
first of all, we must ensure the sustainable management of water and it must always remain a public good.
it is a major issue, rio+20, and the issues facing the world globally are probably more severe than ever: deforestation, desertification, overfishing, clean water supply and climate change.
this resolution, which is balanced, stresses that peaceful and non-violent means are the only way to achieve a sustainable solution to the conflict and, in this context, i believe it is important that israel stops any further construction or extension of settlements.
− i welcome the report on developing a common eu position ahead of the un conference on sustainable development (rio+20).
i welcome the recognition in this report that sustainable development must be at the forefront in all eu processes and policies.
vice-president/high representative ashton, i agree with you: real dialogue and real reforms are the only ways to achieve a long-term sustainable solution in bahrain.
– public procurement policy could be a real driver in promoting high-quality jobs, wages and conditions, equality, skills development, training, and environmental policies, and in providing incentives for research and innovation.
the legislative proposal to overhaul public procurement policy, which the commission is to present shortly, should include provisions to ensure that the lowest price is no longer the determining factor for the award of contracts, and that it is replaced by the criterion of most economically advantageous tender, in terms of economic, social and environmental benefit.
the sector provides sustainable and long-term employment in many towns and villages throughout my constituency in the north-west of ireland.
ireland’s debt sustainability is finely balanced and very much dependent on economic recovery.
particular issues, like energy conservation and also the overall aspect of employment etc., have to be taken into consideration when we are looking into these matters.
justice is a fundamental right, and expedient access to it across the eu member states’ borders is essential in order to consolidate undertakings’ and consumers’ trust in the internal market as a safe environment in which to do business and to shop.
the ‘cheapest tender’ principle needs to be reviewed so as to cover social and environmental criteria, taking into account the full costs of each option presented.
it is vital that levels of welfare payments to single mothers and their families remain intact in the current economic climate.
my own member state, ireland, gave eur 675.8 million of development aid in 2010. as such, development aid is an important instrument which the eu can use to shape issues such as human rights, social inclusion, gender equality, citizenship and climate change.
such an investment would not only lead to an increase in the standard of care for service-users but, due to changes in the demographic structure of the european union, it would also promote sustainable employment.
there is undoubtedly a need to promote traineeships and apprenticeships for school-leavers, but also to ensure that these programmes are accessible and lead to sustainable jobs and long-term employment.
the idea of pesticides being a problem needs to be looked at, but the idea that farmers should use as little pesticide as possible, or that they use too much, should – and is – being regulated with new legislation on sustainable use of pesticides.
if we are serious about tackling poverty, it means putting an end to austerity, it means tackling the power of the 1% in society – the speculators, the banks, the big corporations like the energy companies that will profit this winter while thousands die of fuel poverty.
the report also clearly states that the impact of increased mortality among honeybees and wild pollinators on agriculture, food production and biodiversity would be extremely negative if left unchecked.
the industry offers vital services for agriculture through pollination and contributes to the maintenance of biodiversity and it is, therefore, important that sustainable agricultural practices should be at the heart of the reformed common agricultural policy.
− given the importance of honeybees for the maintenance of biodiversity, the implications of colony collapse disorder are significant, and we must act now to prevent this.
certainly in relation to development aid, and in climate change, we are second to none.
we should concentrate on areas where there is an advantage to us, particularly in energy efficiency, ets, as has been mentioned, and so forth, and not ensure that we go into poverty while they become richer and richer and the world falls apart.
this week in strasbourg, meps voted to ban the short-selling of bonds in the financial markets, which is the first in a number of important steps needed to temper the markets, restore demand and create sustainable jobs.
it is on that basis – together with massive investment by the public sector, together with democratic control by the railway workers and users – that you could develop a railway system that is user friendly, environmentally sustainable, reliable and safe.
the relevance of that idea today hits home when you look at the dire consequences of climate change and the threat to the future of our planet and humanity that it poses.
if we are serious about tackling climate change, empty pledges are simply not good enough.
we need a massive increase in internationally coordinated, patent-free, cooperative research and development into combating climate change.
a so-called green economy built on the same logic of profit and competition will not solve climate change.
we need the massive resources that exist on our planet to be democratically planned in the interests of the majority and to protect our environment.
− this report is the first step towards ensuring a more sustainable transport network, with regard to european railways.
− the upcoming un conference in durban has to achieve a comprehensive, international, fair, ambitious and legally binding agreement aimed at reducing co2 emissions and climate change.
the resolution calls for the transformation of the world economy to be based on sustainable growth.
the fight against climate change is not about bashing industry, but a unique opportunity to actively promote structural change leading to a green economy.
more political courage is needed to combat the environmental consequences of this and to prevent the economic costs of climate change.
we must have a fair agreement, one which respects the spirit of the kyoto protocol and guarantees the potential for growth and development for all while at the same time protecting and maintaining the environment.
nevertheless, we have to grasp the opportunity to deal with matters that can be of use to people when they are going to be re-elected, and particularly in relation to job creation and the issues of climate change and security.
we must capitalise on our vast marine resource so as to create, and of course to maintain, sustainable economic growth and jobs for coastal communities in the near future.
the maritime institute, which was visited by commissioner damanaki and her irish colleague, based in my euro-constituency in galway is to the forefront in developing new possibilities through different initiatives with economic sectors as diverse as ict, food biotechnology, shipping, financial services, ocean energy and new research into deep-sea species.
the development of killybegs in my own county as a renewable energy services hub, the regional plan for the shannon estuary and the westwave project are concrete examples of new initiatives being developed off the irish coastline at present.
the big breakthrough, president, in terms of fishery policy was the green paper for an integrated maritime policy published on 7 june 2006, because up until then what we had were sectoral interests: fishing on the one hand, as against environmental considerations on the other.
what we need, on the one hand, is to see that fisheries are in remote areas very often the only sustainable economic activity while, on the other hand, we have to preserve them.
fisheries and aquaculture have their specific requirements and characteristics in terms of use of the maritime environment and the preservation of the conditions for the recovery and growth of fish stocks.
what we need to do is to ensure the sustainability and profitability of fishing – which is, after all, humanity’s oldest maritime activity.
particularly at a time when we are talking about food sustainability and the availability of food, let us move forward.
obviously, climate change is one and that will probably affect coastal areas and islands more than other areas.
on the other end of the scale, we have the opportunity for renewable energies, and again it makes sense to have cooperation in that area.
if we can bring the occupy movement – the anger, the energy and the ideas – together with the power of the organised labour movement, society could be fundamentally transformed.
ireland, though not a nuclear nation, likely derives some of its energy from nuclear sources through the uk/ireland interconnector.
rather than falling prey to common weaknesses, the us and the eu need to engage in a transatlantic strategy for jobs and growth, to invest in sustainable infrastructure, while strengthening upstream regulatory cooperation to prevent needless obstacles to business across the atlantic.
− i fully support efforts to eliminate iuu fishing due to its negative impact on the environment and therefore support most of the contents of this report.
i see the need to have a monitoring and enforcement force on the seas and coast to combat illegal fishing and other undesirable practices such as pollution and piracy, but i oppose those paragraphs as the increased powers that this would give to coastguards would not just be used against these practices but also against the civil liberties and rights of others, in particular asylum seekers and immigrants.
i think the potential for developing new jobs and growth by exploiting the resources of the sea is immense, especially in terms of renewable energy.
the gfcm’s objectives are clear: they are to promote the development, the conservation, the rational management and the best utilisation of living marine resources as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean, the black sea and connecting seas and waters.
i very much welcome today’s vote which will allow for the sustainable exploitation of fishery sources in the mediterranean area.
as mr jahr has said, and as the previous speaker has said, all policies and initiatives, given our depleted fish stocks, must, and i emphasise must, be based on sustainable exploitation.
i will agree with previous speakers that this has to be addressed in the reformed cap so that we can avail of the opportunity to grow fresh fruit, particularly oranges for orange juice, within the european union where there is a perfect climate for it.
it would improve fresh fruit and it would also lead to a reduction in the carbon footprint and co2 emissions.
the european commission should begin the process of negotiating a new economically, environmentally and socially beneficial and sustainable agreement.
we can do so much to help the lives of the people in all the fields that are important – the rule of law, human rights, water quality, transport, energy, etc.
i am also concerned, commissioner – as you will be – about how this will impact on the negotiations for the budget after 2013. i do not envy you in your task or us in ours in trying to have a sustainable budget.
therefore in matters relating to energy savings and efficiency, it takes a long time to penetrate the public’s mind.
but i think, largely because of the success of the intelligent energy europe programme, that this is now beginning to happen.
from my experience, i am amazed at the number of businesses, towns and villages who have come to me over the last number of months with projects designed to ensure that they can make energy savings and be more efficient through new schemes.
i would be confident that commissioner oettinger, whom i listened to yesterday at the meeting of the committee on industry, research and energy, and commissioner geoghegan-quinn, will be of one mind and will form a package whereby all this can happen so that we can reach our targets of 80% savings by 2050.
madam president, i think the commissioner got the message from the house that we like this programme.
the concern we have is that we are not reaching our energy efficiency targets, as it will take time for the mindset of the wider public to be engaged in this issue and therefore to change in an appropriate manner.
in relation to horizon 2020, our concern would be that this concept of intelligent energy might be lost within that bigger programme.
the emsa is playing an important role in terms of reducing the risk of maritime accidents, marine pollution from ships and the loss of human life at sea.
however, it is regrettable that the commission has yet to undertake a study into the creation of a european coastguard despite the adoption of the directive on ship source pollution which mandates the commission to do so.
another amendment that i tabled concerned the reforms in the agricultural sector which need to be done in the interest of the uzbek population and the need to introduce high-level labour, social and ecological standards.
this report aims to outline a review of the european union’s strategy towards an ongoing, sustainable and uniform reduction in accidents at work and occupational illnesses.