− mr president, the commission very much welcomes this timely report, as food prices are rising sharply, mainly due to erratic weather conditions and natural disasters, but also to increases in energy prices that impact on the cost of food.
there is no more relevant instrument to fulfil these objectives than a strong common agricultural policy able to guarantee the economic and environmental competitiveness of agriculture and – as some of you said – able to bring young people into the agricultural sector of europe.
i agree with the recognition of small and mediumsized enterprises in the building sector, as well as the particular attention paid to the problem of the need to recycle construction products, a topic of crucial importance in the fight against climate change.
it is essential that political, military and humanitarian actors sharing the same operational environment learn to know each other better and to dialogue, respecting and not compromising each other's roles and mandates.
if the needs are enormous, the distribution of aid becomes increasingly difficult and even risky and dangerous in the increasingly complex international environment.
the new common agricultural policy of the european union will have to take account of these new requirements: it will therefore need to be able to respond in a clear and unequivocal manner to the challenges posed by food security and other factors, in particular climate change, the economic crisis, the maintenance of territorial balance within the union.
this attention, mr president, must be exercised both in times of emergency, such as the one linked to the dioxin scandal we are experiencing these days, dioxin discovered in animal feed, but also, and above all, in ensuring a normal production process which respects the entire production chain, the quality of the farmers' work, the quality of the environment and also of marketing and, therefore, of consumers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after having voted with conviction in favour of this important report, i would like to draw particular attention to paragraph 35 of the opinion of the committee on the environment, which, in view of the importance of the european food safety authority in assessing all the risks associated with the food chain in the context of measures to protect the public and health, calls for all member states to set up equivalent national bodies to cooperate with the european agency.
new specific measures are envisaged to verify the recycling of these products, promoting their use in order to meet eu climate change objectives.
different development rates and growing inequality in the distribution of opportunities and resources, both on a geographical, social and generational basis, the increase in climate change (partly attributable to humans) with a consequent increase in natural disasters, the growth of environmental pollution, the imbalance of anthropic pressure concentrated in large urban areas and the imbalance of population growth in some areas of the planet lead to the increase in humanitarian disasters in which solidarity becomes a fundamental element for the recovery of the minimum conditions of survival and the dignity of people.
action 33 provides for a mid-term review of the action plan to address the lack of recognition of the humanitarian sector, profound climate change, the multiplication of complex crises and the increase in violence.
in addition to being more effective in intervention, much needs to be done in active and passive prevention and communities at higher risk need to be better prepared for these types of phenomena, promoting all sustainable development policies aimed at minimizing damage.
to meet the new food challenges of the future, we must become self-sufficient producers, importing less and less agricultural products from third countries, which not only do not comply with environmental and health regulations, but also do not respect the rights of workers.
− improving food security is one of the challenges facing cap reform after 2013. the ability to ensure sufficient food supplies for its citizens must take into account the significant increase in global food demand expected by 2050. in this context, it is essential that the european union continue to guarantee this fundamental human right within and beyond its borders, by seeking to increase agricultural productivity while ensuring a secure and affordable supply and the protection of europe's rural environment, which is now essential.
however, its success has led to unintentional overproduction and surpluses that have distorted the market and raised environmental concerns.
the new cap will therefore have to improve the food system by increasing productivity while encouraging environmentally sustainable food production.
the cap must be maintained at its present level by ensuring sustainable food prices and, above all, a decent income for farmers with the aim of ensuring food security.
− food security is a human right and the common agricultural policy must aim at easy access to food for all, taking into account population growth, climate change, high energy costs and constraints posed by limited natural resources.
− food security is a fundamental right that is hampered by limited natural resources, high energy prices and climate change.
a strong common agricultural policy is essential and the cap has been geared towards this, but reform of the cap is needed to create a 'sustainable cap' on the one hand and to improve food security on the other.
the new cap after 2013 will have to be ready for all this and that is why i support the text in favour of competitiveness, traditional agriculture, access to land and credit for young people, greater integration of food and energy.
− food security is a fundamental human right and can only be achieved when the energy needs of a person can be met to enable him to lead a healthy and active life.
in particular, in view of the revision of the common agricultural plan foreseen for 2013, the support to be granted to european farmers must always allow them to fully comply with food safety and environmental standards.
it is therefore clear that a cap which aims to increase agricultural activity while respecting quality and the environment and helping farmers to achieve an adequate standard of living is desirable.
the energy policy, which is also concerned with the use of biofuels in agriculture, is another subject which needs to be studied more closely, since it is a production which competes with food production.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr barroso, directive 77/2001/ec defines renewable sources in order to identify those for which public incentives are eligible.
renewable sources shall exclude the incineration of the non-biodegradable part of the waste.
since 1992, italy has encouraged the construction of incinerators, which are scientifically harmful to health and the environment, by increasing the energy bill of citizens and are therefore considered by the european union as a residual option for integrated waste management.
with reference to these incentives, there have been two infringement procedures and, despite formal legislative interventions, in italy the incineration of waste is still encouraged today as being assimilated to renewables, one of them being the case of acerra.
i would ask you to confirm that the incineration of non-biodegradable waste cannot be encouraged as a renewable source and that there is no derogation in this respect.
i would also like to know whether it is not inconsistent that the waste directive sets incineration as the last option for waste disposal, whereas directive 77/2001 encourages incineration as a renewable source.
the next item is the debate on: - the oral question to the commission on the waste crisis in campania, by margrete auken and eva lichtenberger, on behalf of the green group (o-0188/2010 - b7-0667/2010), - the oral question to the commission on the waste crisis in campania (italy), by judith a. merkies and victor boştinaru, on behalf of the s&d group (o-0208/2010 - b7-0805/2010), - the oral question to the commission on the waste emergency in naples and the campania region and the use of european funds, by mara bizzotto and lorenzo fontana, on behalf of the efd group (o-0209/2010 - b7-0806/2010).
in view of this paradoxical situation in the third world, i would therefore ask the commission what consequences italy will face from the point of view of community law and what economic sanctions italy may be subject to if the waste crisis in campania is not resolved in the near future.
i would also like to know whether the commission can provide details of the european funds which have so far been managed by the campania region for the creation of the integrated waste collection and disposal system.
the italian government has tried in recent years to do everything possible to solve the age-old problem of the waste collection and disposal cycle, but obviously if today the streets of naples are flooded with tons and tons of garbage, the blame is mainly to be laid on the local authorities and their total inability or lack of will to make efforts to find a solution.
it is clear, beyond all doubt, that the conditions in which naples and campania are found are due to the latitude that has characterized the municipality, the province and the region for so many years in the management of the waste cycle.
if separate collection, the first essential element of a successful waste management plan, is not properly carried out, it cannot be the fault of the central government.
if the emergency has hit naples while the rest of italy is in a very different situation, for example in my region, veneto, where separate collection has been carried out for years without problems and with a very high recycling rate, it means that the responsibilities for the emergency fall on the politics of the city and on local administrators and, above all, on the heavy connivances with the criminal gangs that have always sought and obtained huge profits from the waste business thanks to the infiltration of the camorra into local politics and administrations.
i am pleased that the european parliament has taken an active role in monitoring the waste management situation in campania, as shown, for example, by the report adopted by the committee on petitions following the visit to campania which it carried out in april last year.
after that, the commission has had several contacts and meetings with the italian authorities, most recently during the mission to naples carried out on 22 and 23 november 2010 by a delegation from the environment directorate-general.
in particular they need, firstly, to expand and upgrade waste management facilities throughout the whole of campania and, secondly, to develop an effective management plan for urban waste in campania, taking into account, amongst other things, the eu waste management hierarchy.
we think that the waste management plan for campania must be fully compliant with eu environmental law and must give priority to waste reduction, re-use and recycling; ensure implementation of separate collection in the whole region; provide campania with the necessary composting capacity; and establish measures for the safe disposal in a reasonable timeframe of more than seven million tonnes of baled waste stored in several cities in campania, which also means that the italian authorities will have to carry out an analysis of the baled waste, the so-called ‘ecoballe’, before deciding which is the safest way to dispose of them.
if there is no adequate and effective waste management plan, the commission will return to the court and propose the imposition of fines.
therefore we must closely assess the draft waste management plan that the campania authorities have just submitted to the commission – and ‘just’ really means ‘just’ – and monitor carefully that they actually adopt and implement the plan.
the decision on whether and when to open article 260 proceedings against italy will depend mainly on the content of the waste management plan and the timing of the measures used to immediately address the problem in a convincing way.
at this stage, the commission does not have evidence of a breach of european union environmental law.
the fact that the landfill is situated in a nature protected area is not in itself a breach of eu legislation, provided of course that other rules are applied and that the competent national authorities carry out an appropriate environment assessment and implement the necessary mitigation and also compensation measures.
as concerns the co-financing of waste management measures in campania, in the 1994-1999 programming period eur 88.1 million were devoted to waste management projects, almost 49% co-financed by the erdf.
however, only 90% of the total allocation was used because of difficulties also linked to the waste management crisis and the institution by the italian authorities of the extraordinary management in 1994. in the 2002-2006 programming period, a total financing allocation of eur 140 million, 50% co-financed again by the erdf, was concentrated on waste management projects.
however, following the waste management crisis, the commission decided to take specific measures in order to ensure that erdf funds allocated to campania were used properly.
secondly, after the official notification to italy of the opening of the infringement procedure for waste management on 29 june 2007, the commission informed the italian authorities that no further co-financing would be acceptable for waste management.
the 2007-2013 regional operational programme in campania foresees a total investment of eur 270 million, again 50% co-financed by the erdf, for the management of waste.
however, the disbursement of ec financing for projects in the waste sector is subject, in particular, to the condition that the italian authorities adopt a regional waste management plan, to be validated of course by the commission.
tomorrow we will publish in the commission the report on the implementation of a thematic strategy on prevention and recycling of waste.
this report shows significant differences between member states in terms of waste management performance.
it clearly demonstrates that with an appropriate waste management strategy, landfilling can be reduced close to zero and that incineration could be dramatically reduced by increasing waste composting and recycling.
in addition to transforming waste into resources, this creates jobs and economic activity while reducing the environmental impact of waste management.
in brief, the commission is hoping that the waste management plan for campania is convincing.
until we are certain of an effective plan setting up a system with the necessary infrastructure and have robust guarantees that projects will be implemented effectively, commission funding of relevant waste management projects in campania is interrupted.
the commission has approved the plan for special waste, known as the urban solid waste plan.
the plan has already been partially implemented: the commission has also taken the initiative of setting up a new system of monitoring the use of waste water, which is to be implemented by the member states.
the agreement with the five provinces for the disposal of accumulated waste was concluded and agreements were also concluded with five regions for the temporary transfer of waste pending the final entry into force of the plan.
as mrs buccella said during her recent hearing in the committee on the environment, the time taken to comply with the judgment normally varies between 12 and 24 months and so we are perfectly within the deadline, but the commission can make a discretionary assessment of an extension of the time realistically compatible with the state of progress of the work.
if this is a serious debate to help the campania region, to try to find a solution to an old problem, then surely the resolution that is being proposed for february can also be a joint resolution, otherwise it will be yet another waste of time that will create further damage.
the deep crisis which has been affecting the management of the waste cycle in campania for years is a cause for concern, especially as it has a serious impact on the quality of life of the local population.
the truth is that there has been a lot of talk about the waste emergency, without knowing how things are.
by decree-law no 195/2009, the italian government declared the emergency closed, delegating the management of the waste cycle to the provinces.
in the coming months, new landfills and incinerators will be needed, and their sites will have to be identified, also following the exclusion of cava vitiello in terzigno at the request of the local authorities and our parliament, in order to avoid the risk of paralysing the entire system for collecting urban waste.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, despite the propaganda of the italian government, which was soon refuted by the commission, the waste emergency in campania is a structural problem far from being solved.
beyond questionable lists, one fact must be realized: the citizens of campania continue to live and die in the midst of the waste.
the question is not solved by building incinerators, which are financed as renewable sources in contravention of the european legislation in force.
the waste would be turned into ash, harmful and deadly emissions.
incinerators, says the waste directive, are the last option in the hierarchy of an integrated waste cycle which presents virtuous alternatives without impact on the health of citizens and the environment and which, on the contrary, create employment.
as regards mafia infiltration, i think it is appropriate to note that mafia infiltration, especially in the waste sector, is in the south but especially in the north, especially in recent years.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the waste disposal plan must be implemented by providing for separate collection, recycling and, only for the final part, incineration.
the waste emergency in naples and the campania region has been discussed for decades and, despite the fact that generous funds have been allocated, it is true that today there is still an emergency situation, but there are no excuses.
to say that the responsibility lies with the north of italy, or even that there would now be - said my colleague - the north's waste on the streets of naples is simply false.
the responsibility is clearly on the shoulders of the previous local authorities, which, while on the one hand they allowed organized crime to freely carry out illegal waste trafficking, on the other hand failed to provide suitable and adequate collection and disposal areas.
the regional board, which has only been in office for a few months, has already drawn up a plan for special waste and a plan for integrated waste recycling.
in addition, a separate collection policy has been initiated and initiatives have been taken to reduce the overall waste generated.
finally, the policies implemented are not only aimed at cleaning up the city, but also at organising an integrated waste cycle with separate collection, reducing the amount of waste produced, setting up modern facilities, including those for the elimination of eco-balloons, and cleaning up old landfills.
the real culprits for what has happened in the past must be punished, and they are certainly among the former left-wing campanian administrators and, in particular, the greens, but also some who from northern italy have exploited the local criminal gang to dump the toxic waste they have produced.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after the lies of the berlusconi government, which came to power in 2008 and told italians that the waste problem was over, the european union is right to block funds to italy until an environmentally friendly waste cycle is presented, based on recycling and composting.
public money in campania during the environmental emergency of the last 13 years has consolidated the criminal relations between politics, both left and right, businessmen and the camorra.
and environmental issues are not solved by criminalizing dissent, by criminalizing local communities, families and the territory, as the italian government has done by using the baton to repress those who defend nature and the territory.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i do not wish to deny the gravity of a situation which is the inevitable consequence of a blatant administrative and political failure which has threatened, and still threatens, to drown an entire city and its surroundings in waste.
irresponsibility, indecision, political expediency, shadowy collusion and waste have characterized a political and administrative phase which has now come to a definitive end.
to this end, they have drawn up an integrated waste collection and disposal plan which provides for the encouragement of separate collection and the construction of the necessary installations in the short term.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i want to make it clear that the waste situation in campania has improved compared to the past and is being defined.
the region of campania and the italian state in general are setting up a network of waste disposal plants in accordance with community law.
i would like to point out that the community funds allocated to waste disposal in campania were used in the 2000-2006 rdps under measure 1.7 and in the 2007-2013 rdps under operational objective 1.1. for the 2000-2006 rdp, the campania region reported a financial allocation of eur 140 million available, money committed to the construction of storage, treatment and recovery facilities, recovery facilities, wet and dry fraction and the securing of landfills for the construction or extension of facilities for the recovery of waste material, for actions to support separate collection.
as regards the 2007-2013 rdp, eur 110 million was allocated to the construction of waste treatment plants, eur 50 million to the financing of municipal waste collection facilities.
the activities of objective 1.1 of the erdf-por 2007-2013 together with measure 1.7 of the 2000-2006 por were therefore severely restricted by the conditionality of expenditure schemes as a result of the infringement procedure on waste management in campania, so that a share of the fas has been set aside to allow the continuation of the activities in force under the community veto on the recognition of the por funds.
so i am very much looking forward to the evaluation of the new draft waste management plan which we sincerely hope is what we all believe it should be.
at the end of the day we are talking about the health of italian citizens and the italian environment.
the second thing i want to mention is connected with the waste framework directive.
in that directive it is pretty clear that each of the countries, as a matter of law, has to introduce a waste hierarchy.
that means the best waste is no waste; there is re-use, recycling, energy regeneration and, if there is no other possibility, landfilling.
it is about the trends in landfilling municipal waste because our best available data are on municipal waste.
believe it or not, there are five member states where landfilling is below 5% of municipal waste, but there are also seven member states where landfilling is over 80%, so we have really very different situations in europe when we deal with these programmes, and this is an issue which we certainly want to address.
fundamentally, you can today divide europe into two parts: one part which sees waste as a problem and one part which sees waste as a major opportunity for resources and also for the new financial profits because that is the reality.
i have heard many stories of the need for the question of who will take the waste to be decided by public procurement, because there are more than the necessary number of users who would like to have it in order to use it.
however, for this purpose the waste has to be selected at the very beginning.
the last thing which i would like to mention is the honourable member who said that we should be more careful about waste management problems elsewhere in the european union.
in the infringement cases by sector in 2009, waste accounts for 19%, water 20%, nature 19%, air 16%, and the rest less.
to conclude, we should truly do our best, you as members of parliament and i as commissioner for the environment, to spread across europe the message of waste as an opportunity for the future.
those who carry the wound of abandonment within them have the right to grow up in a happy environment, with people who can offer them a new life.
the key idea behind the agreed text remains to jointly stop the trade in illegally harvested timber and timber products, actively contributing to halting deforestation and forest degradation, the associated carbon emissions and biodiversity loss globally.
this would, at the same time, promote sustainable economic growth and human development, with full respect for indigenous and local peoples.
while states enjoy sovereignty over forests within their territory, the environment is a common heritage of humankind and must be protected, safeguarded and, where possible, restored with the ultimate aim of maintaining global biodiversity and ecosystem functions, protecting the global climate system from ongoing changes.
the main aim of this cooperation is to define a legal framework to ensure the traceability of timber, to establish procedures to certify the quantities of timber exported from cameroon to european countries and to check that these transfers take place in compliance with legal rules and, above all, with respect for the environment.
i have decided to support this recommendation because i am convinced of the need to develop agreements with countries outside europe, but i stress that such cooperation must respect the rules for protecting the environment and be subject to strict controls in order to allow such activities to become a real source of development and growth.
however, it has serious governance problems (corruption), resulting in environmental degradation.
- i voted in favour of these resolutions because i believe it is important to preserve natural forests, the exploitation of which is leading to their degradation and deforestation and the destruction of the environment on a world scale.
a reform of the forestry framework is therefore needed to achieve a voluntary partnership agreement, in line with the objectives of the flegt action plan and ensuring that social and environmental criteria are applied.
the commission must take an interest in respecting the rights of local communities, who are the first victims of climate and environmental change.
i thought it appropriate to stick to the council's position in favour of the interim partnership agreement, because i consider it a priority to secure the supply of resources, especially in view of their scarcity and the deterioration of the environment.
with this motion for a resolution, the european parliament wanted, on the one hand, to reaffirm the importance of serbia's role within the union and, on the other hand, to approve the political and social improvements that the serbian government has made in recent years and to recall the steps that the country still has to take in order to meet the demands for democratization, freedom and the adoption of sustainable and clean policies demanded by the european union.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on the european integration process of serbia and the stabilisation and association agreement with the eu because i believe that constructive approaches to regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations are essential elements of the stabilisation and association process, which play a decisive role in the process of transforming the western balkans into an area of long-term stability and sustainable development.
dementia is expected to be one of the major challenges to the sustainability of our national health systems in the coming decades.
there is no doubt that libya plays a decisive role in the fight against terrorism, peace and security in africa, the fight against illegal immigration in the mediterranean and in the energy sector, which is why our objective in the framework of the european union's strategy must be to consolidate libya's integration into an international political and economic system based on common rules.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am in favour of concluding the framework agreement between the european union and libya because it represents progress compared with the past on important points such as immigration, economic and health cooperation, particularly in the fight against aids, and partly on the energy programme.
with all its contradictions - i was in libya with mrs gomes - there is no doubt that a framework agreement could certainly make a contribution to the fight against terrorism, to fundamental freedoms, to the energy issue.
in this climate, what is most striking is the silence of the institutions and the muted voice of those who try to protest is easily silenced.
i welcome the openness to supporting aid for the promotion of projects of common interest, with particular reference to renewable energy.
despite the fact that the final text contains some inaccuracies, i think it is appropriate to support it, hoping that it will become a stimulus for the government in tripoli to take greater action in the fight against human trafficking in the region, coupled with the awareness needed to become a responsible partner in other areas such as security and energy.
the conclusion of the framework agreement would allow important issues such as political relations, immigration and security, public health, development, trade, climate change, energy and culture to be addressed, while at the same time representing a decisive step forward in the broader perspective of improving relations between the eu's mediterranean area and africa.
we would stress that an eu competition policy based on the principles of open markets and a level playing field in all areas is a fundamental element for the proper functioning of the internal market, a prerequisite for the creation of sustainable jobs.
the problem of the arctic region requires our constant attention today more than ever, because of the worrying problems caused by the effects of climate change.
and the fact that three eu member states - denmark, finland and sweden - are territories belonging to the arctic region, further explains the union's interest in ensuring that the environmental factor is taken into account much more than is already being done.
the union has always been a champion of the environment, making a great deal of effort to protect it and to prevent it, and today, with the vote by this parliament, it has once again wanted to reaffirm its position forcefully.
− the climate change that has recently affected the arctic region highlights the responsibility that the eu should have in relation to such an important and urgent situation.
these effects are on a larger scale here than in other regions, as sea level rise and climate change are merely a consequence of the greenhouse gas emissions the eu produces on a continuous basis.
i consider it of fundamental importance that i vote in favour of a sustainable policy for the far north, because this region must be protected and protected, having had to face disastrous consequences for the environment which do not depend directly on its territory but on the most industrialized european countries.
in addition, the region has a wealth of natural resources, energy and minerals, which the eu has an interest in securing and supplying to the people and industries of europe.
the arctic is therefore one of the main contributors to europe's energy, raw materials and fisheries.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i supported this agreement because climate change and pollution, which originated in the industrialized regions, have unfortunately long since reached the arctic region.
unlike the antarctic, this region is inhabited and its natural resources have traditionally been exploited to the detriment of the environment.
in 1996, in an attempt to stem the tide, the arctic council for the protection of the environment in this region was created, which also includes 3 eu member states - sweden, denmark and finland.
energy, minerals, fish, gas, oil, wind and wave energy are all resources of which the arctic is very rich, and which therefore expose it to new speculation.
the union's priorities are many and any new investment must be weighed cautiously, even if we are talking about areas of primary importance in energy matters.
moreover, as regards the oil pipelines, in addition to the constanta-trieste pipeline already mentioned, the key role of the samsun-ceyhan pipeline, already recognised by commissioner oettinger, is essential to reduce traffic in the bosphorus strait and thus also to reduce the risk of environmental accidents in the black sea (odessa conference, 27 july 2010).
only by considering all the possible paths, not just some, can the objective of diversifying energy sources be finally achieved and thus guarantee energy independence for europe.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment.
this agreement, following disputes and tensions, is therefore part of a climate that is certainly detrimental to other areas of relations and, as a final, negotiated agreement, it seeks to re-establish a new balance and does so - as we have said and as we have also written in the resolution - with particular caution in relation to countries in fragile development.
since waste management is the responsibility of the member states, how can we oblige producers and distributors to recover 85%?
this means that the environment and consumer safety are being compromised, as old, energy-intensive and potentially dangerous equipment would be put back on the market.
mr president, today we adopted the resolution on waste in campania and this should be a lesson for everyone to prevent environmental disasters like this from happening again.
the florenz report on the reuse of electrical and electronic equipment, which is being voted on today, is important not only for the future of environmental sustainability in europe, but also for another aspect, that of the loss of raw materials.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution adopted today by a majority on the waste emergency in campania is a very important signal.
we say no to the allocation of funds which simply consolidate corrupt politicians, unscrupulous entrepreneurs and the camorra, yes to european money if a credible plan is put forward, a plan for waste which is compatible with the environment, no to uncontrolled landfills in national parks, no to incinerators which produce dioxin, and yes instead to recycling and forms which are compatible with the environment.
i would like to reiterate here that the financial assistance measures to be adopted under the programme should improve the standard of living and living conditions of the people living in banana-growing areas and earning income from the banana value chains, more specifically small farmers and small enterprises, and ensure compliance with health, safety at work and environmental protection rules, in particular those concerning the use of and exposure to pesticides.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
i felt it was my duty to vote in favour of the repeal of a regulation which has only created international controversy by destabilising the production and commercial environment of the countries concerned.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that an essential aspect of a globalised economy is the efficient and innovative use of energy, materials and resources.
with reference to the report under discussion, i would remind you that waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) is the fastest growing waste stream in the european union.
i therefore believe that it is essential to work towards better harmonisation of the weee directive and to reduce the administrative costs borne by small and mediumsized enterprises in the sector, without compromising the level of environmental protection.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully share the aim of this directive and i am convinced of the need to separate waste in order to reduce the environmental impact and increase recycling.
with these interventions we are playing with the health of the environment and the sustainability of our lifestyle.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive to be voted on today concerns the amendment of the weee directive, which requires member states to separate the collection of electrical and electronic equipment and sets recovery and recycling targets, including the fixing of a collection rate of 65% of weee, to be achieved by 2016. as is well known, the efficient and innovative use of energy, materials and resources is a fundamental aspect of a globalised economy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the revision of the directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment was intended to encourage the separate collection, recovery and recycling of this type of waste.
- electrical and electronic equipment is now a huge category of consumer goods and therefore also a huge amount of waste with risks, considering the type of waste, of serious damage to the environment and the health of citizens.
the report on the proposal for a directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment aims to regulate at european level the collection of waste electrical and electronic equipment and its treatment and recycling, by setting out the quantities and percentages.
i therefore supported the report by mr florenz, which requires member states to separate the collection of electrical waste by at least 4 kg per inhabitant per year, to reach a quorum of 65% for separate collection by 2016 and to recycle at least 5% of materials, also in order to avoid the waste of raw materials.
waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) is the fastest growing waste stream in the european union and poses a number of challenges.
on the one hand, the environmental and health consequences of improper handling or disposal of such equipment must be considered, while on the other hand the loss of raw materials is a major problem.
the efficient and innovative use of energy, materials and resources is a key aspect of a globalised economy.
the aim of the proposed amendments is to achieve a higher separate collection rate, reduce waste leakage under the weee system and prevent illegal shipments, and to bring weee treatment to a high level.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this vote updates the 2003 waste electrical and electronic equipment directive by addressing issues such as the consistent application of the relevant provisions, the simplification of the rules and the reduction of administrative costs.
the final objective, as already envisaged by the envi committee, is to collect 85% of weee waste electrical and electronic equipment by 2016, recycling between 50% and 75% of it depending on the category.
the aim of the text approved is not only to recover valuable raw materials but also to stem the illegal flow of e-waste outside the eu, which poses risks to health and the environment when treated below minimum standards.
i am convinced that in the fight against tuberculosis, vaccines, combined with better tests for detecting infections, are an essential tool that requires a radical change in the direction of research and greater and sustainable funding.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we understand the commission's reasons, but it is not by imposing financial penalties that the waste emergency in campania will be solved, nor by suspending the payment of 135 million in aid for the period 2006-2013 and 10.5 million for the period 2000-2006, to finance projects relating to waste.
nevertheless, it has already started an integrated waste collection and disposal plan, which also includes the construction of the necessary facilities and agreements with five italian regions for the temporary transfer of waste, pending the plan to become fully operational.
future actions will focus on transparency and dialogue between the population and local authorities, on empowering citizens with regard to the disposal of household waste and also on better use of organic waste.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the last plenary session in strasbourg, following oral questions in the chamber on the waste crisis in campania, the european commission intervened in the debate.
i am pleased with the exchange of views with the european commissioner for the environment, mr potočnik, who has shown particular sensitivity to the campanian case.
the impact of the waste crisis on the tourism sector, as the alarming figures recently released by tourism organisations show, is extremely serious.
the policies currently being implemented are aimed not only at cleaning up the campania capital but, above all, at organising an integrated waste cycle for separate collection, reducing the amount of waste produced, setting up modern facilities and cleaning up old landfills.
i hope that the problem of waste disposal will be solved quickly and definitively, both to protect the image of italy and the economy of the tourist sector.
the resolution explicitly cites and criticizes measures applied by the current government, forgetting that the current mayor of naples, iervolino, belongs to the center-left or, worse still, forgetting the long reign of bassolino, mayor of naples from 1993 to 2000 and governor of campania from 2000 to 2010 as well as for many years extraordinary commissioner for emergency waste.
the waste cycle and related issues are the responsibility of local authorities, as provided for by current legislation.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote was strongly opposed by italy and by most of the epp representatives, who supported the fight against the joint motion for a resolution on the waste emergency in campania put forward by the left-wing groups.
much has been done and much will be done to restore the right of the citizens of naples and the whole of campania to a healthy environment and an adequate standard of living.
- i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the waste crisis in campania, a longstanding problem, because i do not believe that any one government is responsible for the current situation.
i therefore support the epp resolution on the waste crisis in campania and i join the call on the commission to unfreeze the community funds intended to help waste management and disposal, which have been suspended since the opening of the infringement procedure against italy.
the professionals of the instrumentalisation, that is the italian and european left, have launched an attack on italy through a resolution full of propaganda and full of mentions about the situation of waste in campania.
the serious situation in which campania finds itself today with regard to the waste problem has three very specific names: bass, prodi and hervlin.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for years the urban area of naples has been in a state of constant waste emergency, largely as a result of twenty years of left-wing administration.
already in 2003 the investigation into irregularities in waste management led to the former regional council being charged with eight counts, including fraud in public procurement, competition in breach of environmental regulations and abuse of office.
in 2008, to deal with 35,000 tons of waste dumped on the streets, the berlusconi government managed to contain the critical phase of the emergency in just 58 days.
since then, the number of separate collection sites has increased from 15% to 22%, with five eu-standard landfills and seven waste sorting and treatment plants now in operation.
today the region, which since 2010 has finally been led by a centre-right figure, is about to present a new waste disposal plan agreed with the regional commissioner for the environment and, shortly, a strong response is expected from the territory, precisely that local initiative that has been missing in decades of bad left governance, a deficiency compensated only by the initiatives of the government of silvio berlusconi.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the transition to a low-carbon economy and the achievement of the objectives set out in the climate package require the definition of rules to regulate co2 emissions in various sectors, including the automotive sector.
i am very pleased with the negotiations which led to the agreement with the council on the emission limit of 147 grams of co2/km by 2020. this is a feasible limit and a good balance between environmental, social and industrial standards.
i hope that it will also take up the environmental challenge and invest even more in innovation and research.
we will vote against this because we believe that the economic impact is excessive compared to the insignificant reduction in co2 emissions worldwide.
i would remind you that the co2 emissions per square kilometre of these vehicles are currently around 200 grams.
i also believe that we cannot compare - as has often happened in this house - this particular category of vehicle with that of passenger cars, because the production cycles are much longer and this would only represent 1.5% of the co2 emissions of the whole transport sector.
environmentalism that is too ideological always runs the risk of leading to a lack of practical results and ultimately to damage the environment.
i also welcome the incentives for eco-innovation, but i think there is one critical point: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own energy needs.
member states may derogate from the application for a period of four years, renewable once, after notifying the european commission of the reasons.
the review of the agreements also aims to coordinate efforts to combat terrorism, including the entry into force of the international criminal court, and to open a dialogue on the basis of common values and interests on issues such as migration, energy, space, transport and security.
- ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mrs joly's text on the revision of the agreement between the european union and the republic of south africa which has been in force since 2004. the aim of this revision is to identify new possibilities for trade liberalization in specific areas and, at the same time, to bring the agreement into line with the changed international context: i think it is crucial to stress that this review lays the foundations for improving and deepening the eu-south africa dialogue on important issues such as migration, energy and security.
the agreements provide for an increase in the eea financial mechanism in the areas of environmental protection, climate change and renewable energy, civil society, humanitarian and social development and protection of cultural heritage.
the proposal for a regulation on the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions from light commercial vehicles is part of the commission's strategic framework for reducing co2 emissions into the environment.
however, in the latest report of the european environment agency, some graphs clearly show that since 2003 co2 emissions from road transport in the eu15 and eu27 have been stable/decreasing.
it should also be noted that light commercial vehicles in the transport sector account for only about 1.5% of carbon dioxide emissions.
the long and difficult negotiations in the envi committee focused mainly on the long-term emissions level, which, when the agreement was reached, was 147g co2/km.
i appreciate the spirit of this document, which aims to contribute to the reduction of co2 emissions, as decided by the european union, also through improved operation of light commercial vehicles.
in fact, i think it is reasonable to have set an initial short-term target of 175g co2/km from 2014 and by 2017. while further reducing emissions to 147g co2/km can logically be achieved by 2020.
in writing.
− within the european strategy to combat pollution and climate change, co2 emissions reduction targets for vehicles are an important aspect.
the community's objective is to reduce co2 emissions by up to 120 gco2/km, so to progressively reduce the average emissions i agree with the implementation of the regulation which requires, from january 2014, the registration and production of new light commercial vehicles that do not exceed 175 gco2/km of emissions and 147 gco2/km in the long term (2020) also to meet the design needs of the vehicles.
we have today approved the agreement reached with national governments on new co2 emission limits for european commercial vehicles, including incentives for industry to produce trucks with improved energy efficiency and penalties for those who do not comply with the new rules.
the legislation adopted strikes a delicate balance and sets a series of ambitious but feasible environmental objectives for producers.
- i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is useful in pursuing the objective of protecting the environment.
this is an important document that helps the car industry to plan its production better, ensuring co2 emissions reductions.
the fight against climate change cannot be postponed and also involves reducing vehicle emissions.
to halt the disembarkation of fish in a sustainable and non-contingent way, five things are needed: democracy, development, respect for international law, european solidarity - but above all - zero demagoguery.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
there are still areas for improvement to ensure that croatia can be considered ready for the european union and its objectives contained in the europe 2020 strategy: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the development of the european union's environmental policy and to promote the development of the european union's environmental policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, energy 2020 is a vast programme but the question is whether we can achieve the 20% renewable energy target by the target date, also in view of the financial crisis which is slowing down investment.
there is a problem: by supporting solar energy, you're actually subsidizing china, which is now the world's largest exporter of solar panels, and india, which is the world's largest exporter of wind turbines.
you should have done something very different: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that the community's energy policy is not based on the principle of subsidiarity.
let's remember that for 150 years, the co2 emissions from cars have not decreased.
(for the results of the vote: see minutes)
the agenda includes the report by marisa matias, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2001/83/ec as regards the prevention of the entry into the legal pharmaceutical supply chain of falsified medicinal products on the basis of identity, history or origin (com (2008) 0668 c6-0513/2008 2008/0261 (cod)).
financial sustainability is important, but the need to ensure adequate income must also be taken into account.
sustainable budgets and adequate pension systems are not conflicting objectives but two sides of the same coin: true sustainability cannot be achieved without adequate retirement income.
i welcome the report by mrs oomen-ruijten, which aims to give new impetus at national and european union level by contributing to the creation of sound, long-term adequate, sustainable and secure pension systems.
mr president, i thank you for your generosity, because during debates we never have the opportunity to waste a minute and so this is an extra opportunity given to us to speak and to argue, in this case, the explanations of vote, which are in any case the basis of the reports we are voting on.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the compromise that has been reached with great difficulty in our committee is essentially a positive one, as it is a tool to call on the member states to ensure adequate, sustainable and transferable pensions in europe, in view of a very significant ageing of the population.
in all this, i would like to stress the importance of smes, which, because of their large number throughout europe, are generators of employment and sustainability.
these measures thus encourage the modernisation and coordination of national policies on pension adjustment, sustainability, work-life balance, increased transparency of pension schemes and solvency protection.
by setting this threshold as a long-term objective, it is clear that the sustainability of pension systems is necessary to give workers a minimum of certainty about their prospects.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report by mrs ria oomen-ruijten is based on the commission's green paper, presented in july 2010, which sets out the commission's concerns regarding the adequacy and sustainability of pension systems at european level.
the report specifically aims to establish appropriate, sustainable and safe criteria by inviting member states to discuss the topic, to publicise the proposals created and to coordinate for a concrete joint project through the open coordination method.
the report on 'adequate, sustainable and secure pension systems in europe' was voted on in plenary today.
the commission, taking into account demographic developments and the effects of the economic and financial crisis, considered that in order to modernise pension policies, coordinated action is needed on: adjustment of pension schemes, sustainability, work-life balance, removal of obstacles to mobility, increased transparency of pension schemes and protection of solvency.
the aim of this report is to recognise and maintain the responsibilities of everyone in order to create a sustainable, secure and adequate pension system at member state level.
− we support the green paper report on adequate, sustainable and secure pension systems in europe, as the european commission aims to help member states without taking away the competence of individual countries, which must assess the link between life expectancy and the age of mandatory retirement.
i am referring in particular to cooperation in the fields of transport, the environment and economic development.
journalists should never be required to reveal their sources unless it is necessary for them to do so for the purposes of a criminal investigation, and that principle is valid whatever the political climate.
the zeroing of tariffs on korean products against the raising of environmental and social standards in korea cannot be considered fair.
today's vote renews the community guarantee covering losses on european investment bank loans for projects outside the european union, a measure which is even more important in today's economic environment, which is characterised by profound changes not only in markets but also in production logic and the way of thinking in the economy.
the main themes of the discussion and political debate were: support for local small and medium-sized enterprises; optimising synergies in development cooperation, so that different interventions in the global south do not overlap and waste resources; the nature of the eib that it remains an investment bank that lends, competes on international markets and does not lend at a loss; the geographical scope of the eib's investments, which have been extended to countries such as libya and iraq but not to countries such as belarus, where respect for human rights as enshrined in the european declaration of human rights must be a minimum condition for planning intervention.
we need to change the aspects of cap international aid policies that are not in line with the task of increasing global food production, in full respect of environmental concerns, food safety and labour standards.
the work of the european parliament in the annexed regulation on the safeguard clause attached to the agreement and a clarification by the south korean government on changes to domestic legislation on carbon emissions have also helped to allay some of these concerns and that is why we have today confirmed the vote of the inta committee, to allow the completion of the procedure on which the council has already agreed.
in doing so, the eib contributes to the general guiding principles and policy objectives of the european union, including the development of third countries and the prosperity of the eu in the new global economic environment.
the work of the european parliament in the annexed regulation on the safeguard clause attached to the agreement and a clarification by the south korean government on changes to domestic legislation on carbon emissions have also helped to allay some of these concerns and that is why we have today confirmed the vote of the inta committee, to allow the completion of the procedure on which the council has already agreed.
three years later, we are calling for a policy that is committed to supporting smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
we call for the promotion of the most disadvantaged areas whose development would bring an improvement in environmental and social conditions.
- ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the many considerations surrounding the implementation of this strategy, i have personally decided to vote in favour, especially in view of the fact that the danube region, comprising 14 european countries and some 115 million inhabitants, is an area in which it is possible to develop enhanced synergies between various eu policies, in the fields of cohesion, transport, the economy, energy, the environment, enlargement and neighbourhood policy.
i therefore believe that this strategy should combine economic, environmental, social and cultural elements, since a macro-region such as the danube would significantly increase the economic well-being of the entire european community, fostering employment and promoting integrated development.
- i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because the danube region, which comprises 14 european countries and 115 million inhabitants, must be managed through a shared collective plan, which allows for its economic and cultural development in a way that preserves its invaluable artistic and environmental beauties.
on the energy side, over 45% of gas and 29.9% of oil are imported from russia, without which half of europe's cooking and heating systems would stop working.
given the shared interests in the economic, energy and security fields, a new partnership agreement with the kremlin would provide greater stability for the european economy in the wake of the recent financial crisis.
- i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because access to modern energy services is a fundamental requirement for poverty eradication and economic development, and the right to energy means that energy services are reliable, affordable, particularly for the poor, and evenly distributed in order to bridge the gap between urban and rural areas.
the world bank's energy strategy is moving in this direction, and it must do more to lift people out of poverty while facilitating the transition to an environmentally sustainable energy-based development path.
the world bank must therefore pursue an approach to private sector development that maximizes the benefits to the poor while addressing climate change.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
these requirements stem from the need to prepare, together with the eib and the ebrd, a package of initiatives in the fields of energy, food security, climate change, health, youth policy, research and, above all, industrial policy aimed at creating strong social protection systems and reducing the unemployment rate.
− the need to overcome the economic crisis, to ensure sustainability and to develop a 'smart economy' are the key objectives of the strategy which will outline the future framework of the eu market economy.
the challenge of sustainable growth needs to be taken up with all the political and financial instruments at our disposal.
the european union must work to channel and rationalise its resources by investing in transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure: the breakthrough in this regard will be the creation of project companies guaranteed and financed by project bonds.
the food price index on financial markets shows that prices have risen uncontrollably in recent months, due to the international economic and financial crisis and also to the recent ecological disasters caused by climate change.
the european union is therefore obliged to affirm its commitment to the creation of a sound policy of agricultural and rural development, its support for research and technological innovation in order to improve productivity, in compliance with the criteria of energy efficiency and sustainability.
sustainability also means promoting the production and marketing of traditional local food products, offering appropriate financial incentives and the possibility of access to credit for smes.
− climate change and speculation in commodity markets are among the main factors threatening food security, both inside and outside the eu.
it is also necessary to combat abusive speculation on the markets for foodstuffs, agricultural raw materials and energy.
food security requires a strong policy that secures a future for our farmers and encourages the introduction of more effective and sustainable farming practices in the least developed countries.
the poor harvests in america, the natural disasters in russia and brazil, the rise in energy and oil prices, the ageing of the agricultural sector - these are the problems that must be tackled without further delay.
through eurobonds we distinguish between eurobonds and project bonds the time has come to develop and drive our economy through that fund called project bonds, in particular the transeuropean infrastructure in the transport, energy and telecommunications sectors, accompanied by research and innovation.
then, on the application of taxes as regards carbon, i believe that they should not be increased but regulated.
this act has given parliament a strong feeling that preserving biodiversity and maintaining the fish stocks of this important sea is also the future of fishermen.
they need to be able to measure both sustainability and, above all, the impact on the economy of that country, to understand how many jobs are changing, to understand what the rate of innovation is for artisanal fishing, to understand the use of these resources.
theoretically created at zero cost to reduce waste and make the european union's external relations more effective, it is proving to be a failure on both political and economic fronts.
highly speculative and short-term operations have once again been at the heart of the crisis and have highlighted the clear link between an inefficient regulatory and supervisory framework on the one hand, and the sustainability of public finances on the other.
in this way, we will be able to create new additional resources to address global and european challenges, such as climate change and the objectives set out in the eu 2020 strategy.
in other areas, such as energy and the environment, europe has been a world leader, setting an example and inspiring other countries outside the european union.
this has been done today, and we are therefore happy to vote in favour, because this is a tax which will serve to shift financial resources from the financial economy, that is, from financial speculation, to the real economy, and will make it possible to respond to the millennium development goals, to respond to the major european projects for infrastructure, research, ecological conversion and our production system.
- i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the regulatory work of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean has been essential in order to achieve a sustainable level of fishing in the mare nostrum.
this is why it is a priority to take legislative action to protect the marine environment by bringing the use of fish stocks back to sustainable levels.
the rapporteur then proposes other financing instruments to curb speculation: the commission will continue to support the efforts of the member states to achieve the objectives of the treaty, including, for example, consistent and effective taxation of the energy sector and the development of proposals for taxation for development that will increase the resources to be allocated to achieving the millennium development goals.
i believe it is essential for europe to also find resources on the market to finance the crucial sectors of our economy, in line with the europe 2020 objectives, in particular the transeuropean infrastructure in the transport, energy and telecommunications sectors needed to overcome the crisis.
the introduction of a financial transaction tax, the issue of common european bonds and the envisaged carbon tax are some of the proposals aimed at creating the new pathways needed for our economy, but without in any way prejudicing the most vulnerable groups of consumers.
to prevent future crises, the european union must now promote concrete changes in regulation and supervision, shaping a healthier and more robust financial environment.
the amendments adopted have even made the text worse, including various issues such as climate change, violence against women, assisted reproduction, and equal access to the health system for illegal immigrants.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
it is also a sector which is fundamental to the preservation and protection of the environment and to the sustainable development of our territories.
in view of this, i can only support the requests of my colleague, who hopes that in the future cap europe will promote agricultural policies aimed at breaking this dependence on imports with a clear beneficial effect on the quality and sustainability of the supply chain.
the decline in the supply of plant protein is a paradox at a time when plant protein production gives rise to a number of positive externalities which are necessary for the agricultural ecosystem, beneficial to the quality of the final livestock products and important for market price balances.
i am referring to the fight against climate change and the proper use of natural resources, which are the subject of due attention at this stage of the elaboration of the framework for the future cap.
only a more balanced supply and consumption of protein crops produced within the eu will be able to respond to new challenges such as climate change or the loss of agricultural biodiversity.
this dependence is undermining the economic viability of domestic meat production, which is increasingly weakened by the additional costs of importing feed, not to mention the economic problem that, in view of climate objectives, the production of protein crops would substantially contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
gender equality is not just a matter of social justice, but is one of the prerequisites for achieving the objectives of sustainable growth, employment, competitiveness and social cohesion set out in the eu 2020 strategy.
concrete and sustainable measures, particularly in the field of education, should enable us to achieve this ideal of equality.
i am one of those who would like to see chapters such as chapter 15 on energy and, especially, chapter 23 on the judiciary and fundamental rights, opened.
the report you have prepared, mr president, rightly emphasizes the economic, environmental and social challenges, in short the sustainability of our industrial policy, and puts sustainability on the same level as competitiveness, because these two dimensions are closely linked, and i am convinced that in today's world these two aspects cannot exist without each other.
it means having an industry that is efficient in the use of resources, in the consumption of energy, in the emission of greenhouse gases, and therefore an economy that has the green economy as its objective, going through the path of the greener economy, but it must also be a responsible industry, which faces the difficulties on the basis of a constant and fruitful dialogue with the social partners.
i think it is important to highlight these new factors that need to be addressed: the commissioner has already announced that he will be taking further initiatives on the subject of credit, raw materials, energy costs, innovation, research and the need to increase the capacity of europe to transfer the results of research and innovation within companies, in new products and in new ways of organising production.
the new european industrial policy must be forward-looking, with a global approach to its policies, aimed at reaffirming the centrality of industry, especially manufacturing, which must continue to be the beating heart of our economy and trigger new dynamics of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the current legislation covers 40% of the waste produced in the union.
the commission has proposed to significantly increase the recycling targets for electrical and electronic waste containing rare earths, as proposed by commissioner potočnik, which is not my own proposal.
it is therefore urgent that the european union invests more resources in technological research, in particular to extract rare earths from e-waste more easily and cheaply.
the path to ensuring a sustainable supply of these elements is still long and cannot be developed without greater cooperation with resource-rich countries through strategic partnerships and ongoing relationships.
we must tackle this with great energy, the marshall plan to help these people, not sending weapons, the marshall plan involving the small and medium-sized enterprise system.
the common theme, of course, is the desire to see change in libya that puts the wishes of the people at the forefront of the energy of the european union and the international community.
to react to the comments on our assistance to greece and ireland: i think our experience clearly demonstrates that we should be constantly searching for a delicate balance between preserving the sustainability of the debt and avoiding moral hazards.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the framework in which we should frame the debate on this resolution is that set out in directive 2008/56, the so-called framework directive on the marine environment strategy.
as the honourable member who spoke earlier said, the framework is that of the protection of the marine environment, because the directive lays down common principles on the basis of which the member states must draw up their own strategies, also in collaboration with third countries, for the achievement of good ecological status in the marine waters for which they are responsible.
it is time for the european union to make full use of the common opportunities for sustainable renewal and further development of the industrial base with quality jobs.
i do not think that the waste of public resources and the air pollution caused by the double seating of parliament, which every month forces thousands of people to make long and arduous journeys between brussels and strasbourg, can be tolerated any longer.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the changes to the official calendar of the european parliament for 2012 and 2013 because i believe it is right to try to limit the waste of economic resources and not in the performance of our parliamentary mandate.
this will save the cost of the european institutions and avoid waste of money and time.
this will require greater effort in the organisation of work on my part and that of my colleagues, but it will also show the public a greater commitment to avoid unnecessary waste of public money.
i do not think that the waste of public resources and the air pollution caused by the double seating of parliament, which every month forces thousands of people to make long and arduous journeys between brussels and strasbourg, can be tolerated any longer.
in order to respect the expenditure-containment approach, i would like all the institutions to forward in advance the information needed to draw up a general picture of administrative expenditure, so that the budgetary authority can take decisions on the use of resources in accordance with a multiannual, sustainable approach, aimed at the comparability over time and between the institutions of the data provided.
the aim is to implement better coordination in the region on issues such as the integrated maritime policy, trans-european transport networks, fisheries, climate and environment projects, research and development, increase the movement of people, goods and services in the regions, in order to achieve the goal of cohesion policy, ensuring that all this coincides with the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy and with the policies of the european union for the period after 2013.
in writing.
in the run-up to the start of the long-awaited negotiations, my wish, shared by many colleagues, is to create a suitable environment for the citizens of montenegro: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the europe 2020 strategy has recognised the need to define a new industrial policy in order to preserve a strong and sustainable european industrial base.
the resolution concerns a key sector which needs to be fully supported in order to enable the european union to implement an industrial policy which accompanies the achievement of high levels of production and the effort towards sustainable and competitive renewal.
- ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr lange's report because, alongside the europe 2020 strategy, the eu must work towards energy development and better use of resources in order to ensure innovation.
furthermore, european industrial policy must be geared both to the sustainable, competitive and eco-efficient renewal of the industrial base at world level and to a sustainable transition from a predominantly productive to a knowledge-based industry.
the report has positive elements such as the widespread call (but only on a voluntary basis, without rigid impositions) for environmental standards by european companies.
now, taking the text voted on today as a starting point, i believe it is important that all the institutions and all the parties concerned should work towards achieving and translating into concrete action the objectives outlined in it: in particular the adoption of measures aimed at protecting intellectual property; the establishment of an industrial innovation model aiming at excellence; the modernisation of industries, especially in relation to environmental protection and the prudent use of energy resources; the promotion of an environment conducive to the internationalisation of smes.
uncontrolled progress in nuclear testing, lack of basic freedoms, hostile climate towards foreign investment, government abuses, disconnection between the ruling class and civil society.
i voted in favour of the amendment, because of the importance of the euro in the european political and economic project, for the sustainable growth of europe.
the fact that we have kept the technologically obsolete nuclear power station in operation is certainly not a secondary matter and these things should make us reflect on the european nuclear energy programme.
as far as the subject of energy policy in europe and the conclusions of the review from japan is concerned, i think we should first of all be very honest with the facts and realities.
i would like to pay tribute to the parliament which, a few years ago, made a clear commitment to the sustainable use of nuclear energy in the european energy mix, but which has certainly also become thoughtful.
the question of the energy roadmap 2050 and the claims that it would not sufficiently promote and finance renewable energy sources.
20% renewable energy in just nine years is really, in the crucial area, in the electricity area, which is really the first thing, 35%.
we are on track to get 35% of our electricity from renewable energy sources and the member states are doing so renewable energy sources will overtake nuclear power in electricity generation in four to five years, while also overtaking coal.
this means that we are on our way to renewable energy becoming the main source of electricity in europe.
then, in late spring, we'll present our concepts and scenarios for the energy roadmap 2050. but it's not just about 2050 - a distant time - it's also about 2025, about 2030, the time for which we need to invest in infrastructure and production capacity now.
i don't want to make a commitment here, but we will certainly not be at 35% renewable energy by 2030, but we will be at 40% plus or even 60% or something in between.
if this is the case, it is not that renewable energy sources are not being promoted enough, but that renewable energy sources will be the main contributors to the energy mix in our lifetime.
(interruption by mrs harms) mrs. harms, i'm talking about the energy roadmap, you talk about the co2 roadmap, but that's not the same thing.
but now we are talking about renewable energy sources, and we will get to over 40%.
we have thus laid the foundations for the fact that the energy mix is no longer a matter for the member states alone, but that the member states are responsible for 50% or a little more.
you can assume that the scenarios mr turmes also seriously consider what is proposed by various associations, namely to go up to 100% renewable energy sources.
but then you have to look at the law - it's worth looking at - article 194, which says unchanged: the energy mix is a matter for the member states.
the commissioner also mentioned that the energy mix is a national competence.
each member state decides on its own energy needs.
half of the member states, let's say, on the order of magnitude, half of them use nuclear energy.
we should be able to find safer and more environmentally friendly forms of energy production through research and development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the growing demand for energy requires diversification of the supply of energy sources other than oil, such as renewable energy sources such as solar, wind and nuclear.
i do not think that nuclear energy is a subject that can be discussed on the basis of the emotions of the moment.
i am afraid that the usual anti-nuclear interests, often financed by the oil companies, will try to exploit what has happened in japan to encourage our country's energy dependence on oil and its derivatives.
more than 8,000 people in italy and more than 350,000 in europe die each year from pollution caused by the combustion of petroleum products.
in addition, as regards the identification of possible sites on the site, i would stress that this choice is facilitated by the technical and scientific indications of the experts who will enable the administrators to make the most appropriate choices to ensure the safety of citizens and respect for the environment.
i hope that the discussions on alternative energy sources to oil can be approached objectively, ensuring that the european citizens are properly informed, so that we do not become even more dependent on the instability of the oil-producing countries because of the easy exploitation of the latter.
i welcome the decisions taken at the extraordinary meeting of the energy ministers to examine the implications of the accident at the fukushima plant and i am confident in the determination of the member states to carry out 'stress tests' of nuclear power stations in the european union, to be extended also to non-european countries and above all to neighbouring countries.
in this context, and taking due account of the decision of some member states to impose a nuclear moratorium and the fact that public consultations on energy development are imminent, it is important that the commission reports on the safety situation of european nuclear power stations whose accidents could affect neighbouring regions of member states.
the commission has also proposed a new directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this measure concerns generalized tariff preferences, that is to say, tariff concessions for those third countries which have undertaken certain commitments under international treaties or conventions on sensitive subjects such as labour, rights and the environment.
we therefore have a high priority for the 2012 budget: we must not waste time in making the 2020 strategy a reality, starting with the very first of the targets, more jobs in europe.
i am convinced that all these great objectives will be possible only if we patiently build together, from the outset, a renewed climate of institutional cooperation.
institutional cooperation really means finding a climate of renewed parity to work together on this delicate issue, the budget, which is one of the most not only strategic but also the most real and most real instruments for building our future.
my response to mr herczog about the waste of money: administration accounts for only 5.7% of the total budget of the european union.
today, at such a delicate time, when the difficulties are closely linked to a rapidly changing reality, especially in the mediterranean but also in japan, there is a need for an authoritative and credible parliament, with answers that give strength to growth, competitiveness and the intelligent sustainability of the things to be done.
europe must invest and encourage member states to invest more and better in alternative energy sources.
with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the procedure for amending the gsp will involve the council and parliament, which will have to seek to create an effective system sensitive to the interests of the beneficiary countries, but requiring the latter to ratify and apply the 27 international conventions on the protection of human rights, sustainable development, basic labour standards and good governance.
we now recognize the need for more intensive cooperation in order to meet ever new challenges in the field of safety and the environment and to promote further investment which will guarantee more free access to the market.
further progress in cooperation and regulatory harmonisation in this area could also greatly contribute to competition neutrality, with particular reference to state aid and social and environmental rules.
common standards would in fact promote a more uniform integrated development, especially from the social and environmental point of view.
we believe that they should: remove current legal restrictions on the ownership of canadian airlines; the parties agree to cooperate in the development of a common approach to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment, including the establishment of a common framework for the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
it includes the gradual introduction of traffic rights and investment opportunities and broad cooperation on issues such as safety, security, social issues, consumer interests, the environment, air traffic management, state aid and competition.
the european parliament is therefore called upon today to formulate a more ambitious policy of cooperation with the gcc countries: the eu has comparative advantages to be claimed against new actors operating in the gulf, especially in education, scientific research, energy and technology, and cannot afford to miss the opportunities offered by this particular historical moment in which global economic governance is being defined and regional balances are being reconstituted.
this is also true in view of the eu's energy needs, which are still largely covered by fossil fuels, although in the future oil demand will be driven by an increasingly renewable-oriented climate policy.
the recent legislation we have passed or will be required to pass gives a wide range of supervisory, analytical and evaluation powers: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
− to tackle the current economic and financial crisis, it is essential to promote inclusive and sustainable european growth, aligning the community budget with the union's main objectives.
this report sets out some guidelines which will help to: promoting employment; improving public spending on innovation, research and development; achieving climate change and energy objectives; improving education standards and promoting social inclusion.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report sets out the general guidelines of the european parliament for the 2012 budget and i believe that it promotes sustainable growth by helping to overcome the economic crisis.
the commission has already taken the initiative in the field of the environment, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the environment is not affected by the pollution caused by the use of chemicals.
the eu-japan meeting in brussels in may could be the start of the cooperation and support that the eu must provide, by acting as a key partner in the reconstruction process, assisting japan both through technical assistance in the energy sector and through the strengthening of trade relations aimed at the rapid recovery of this great world economic power.
i also think it appropriate, with regard to the subject of nuclear safety, to have the european energy ministers make it a priority to make european installations safe, emphasizing the importance of greater european coordination in the modernisation of nuclear installations.
i believe that statistics are not only useful for monitoring specific tourism policies, but can also be useful in the wider context of regional policy and sustainable development.
in recent decades, the sector has faced major challenges such as increased global competition, demographic trends, environmental constraints, the seasonal distribution of tourist movements and the increasing use of new information and communication technologies by customers.
wars, ethnic tensions, persistent climate change, violation of human rights, lack of civil and economic freedoms, endemic corruption, absence of institutional representatives of the needs of citizens, such as trade unions, associations, political parties: the european union has a long history of being a major player in the world economy, and it is in this context that the european union is making its contribution to the development of the world economy.
we should seize the opportunity – we are in absolute agreement with parliament on this – to build together an integrated and coherent investment policy that promotes investments and makes a positive contribution both to economic growth and sustainable development.
we believe that the new policy should serve the purpose of assuring all european investors that they are able to operate in an open and properly and fairly regulated business environment, not only within the internal market, but also when operating in third countries.
- ladies and gentlemen, the migratory flows caused by instability are the indirect consequence of human rights violations, environmental disasters and the lack of economic and social structures capable of ensuring the well-being of large sections of society.
i believe that, in the light of a future vision, more efforts will have to be made to ensure that the sustainable use of rural areas is efficient in terms of both energy and quality.
the report indicates the areas to be worked on for the better integration of women, to make the most of their employment potential and to improve their life prospects through greater ecological and energy efficiency in rural areas.
as women play an indispensable role in the sustainable development of rural areas, i am voting in favour of this so as to ensure that women are given practical support in this area.
− in europe, sustainable rural development has always been considered a priority, in order to ensure optimal living conditions for men and women who decide to undertake this specific activity.
the catastrophic accident in japan a few weeks ago shows, for those who have not yet understood it, that nuclear energy is no joke: the commission has therefore a duty to check how the programmes for the dismantling of the old power stations in the three former communist countries have been implemented.
i hope that the dismantling work will proceed swiftly and ensure maximum safety for citizens and the environment.
− ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the efficiency and effectiveness of eu funding for decommissioning of nuclear power stations in the new member states, tabled on 14 march 2011, aims to assess the results achieved in the field of decommissioning of obsolete nuclear power stations on the basis of the experiences of lithuania, bulgaria and slovakia, which have received eu financial assistance for this purpose since 1999. security of energy supply is one of the key priorities of the eu's energy strategy.
according to current forecasts, the delays in the programmes will not prevent the start of decommissioning and waste management activities and the execution of the works by the plant staff by 2013. however, there remains a strong concern that decommissioning plans have not yet been finalised and that efforts are needed to improve the management of financial resources and coordination with the national authorities of the member states concerned.
- i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is of paramount importance to keep the focus on the decommissioning of the nuclear power stations in lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria, where, at the time of their accession to the european union, old soviet-designed nuclear reactors were still in operation and could not be upgraded to the latest safety standards at sustainable costs.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has also been consulted on this matter.
in the light of the foregoing, and considering that aces can be effective tools to contribute to the union's external objectives (in particular climate change and the fight against poverty), i express my favourable opinion on the adoption of this resolution as i consider export credits to be an important instrument to support trade and investment by european businesses.
the limited data available does not give us a global picture of the phenomenon, but it is enough to look at one's own family or work environment to see how women are still not protected from violence.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the results of the status quo scenario option are clear: if we do not change our policy then, by 2020, sustainability of stocks will in general be out of the question.
regarding environmental sustainability, only 6% of the stocks analysed would reach maximum sustainable yield by 2020. this should be compared with our obligation to achieve maximum sustainable yield by 2015. so if we continue under the status quo situation there is no way we will fulfil our obligation to achieve maximum sustainable yield by 2015 with reference to the economic performance of our fishing fleets, under the status quo scenario only some fleets will be economically viable.
finally, the picture for social sustainability is the same.
in my view, certain priorities are essential if the european union is to achieve the objectives it has set itself, in particular: improve access to the internal market for small and medium-sized enterprises by reducing administrative burdens and facilitating their participation in procurement procedures, remove all obstacles to the development of electronic commerce and support and finance innovation, in particular through the issuance of bonds for european union projects, especially in the energy, transport and telecommunications sectors.
finally, only by linking the development and support of business with the employment objectives of the europe 2020 strategy will we be able to achieve what i believe is the objective of this act, namely to create a social market economy based on growth, competitiveness and sustainability.
mr president, it is up to us to guarantee these objectives in order to emerge from the crisis and to promote a new model of development, sustainable development and new quality employment.
the relaunch of the single market requires that our european policies operate in a more business-friendly climate that aims to promote innovation and growth and a strategic repositioning of the european economy.
there are many proposals put forward by the european commission which actually go in the direction of integrating and liberalising european markets, determining measures to support especially small and mediumsized enterprises, to also affect innovation and the protection of creativity, improving the efficiency and sustainability of networks and infrastructures both tangible and intangible.
only then will we be able to create a social economy based on growth, competitiveness and sustainability.
europe has always pursued the conclusion of fisheries partnership agreements and partnership relations have been in force with the union of the comoros in this field since 1988. the new protocol aims to define the fishing opportunities to be offered to union vessels, to provide for a sustainable policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources, to increase investment in small-scale fisheries and to optimise their activity.
agreements with african and pacific countries provide that a substantial share of the eu's financial contribution is earmarked for supporting national fisheries policies based on the principles of sustainability and good management of fisheries resources.
in this context, statistics are useful for monitoring specific tourism policies and are useful in the context of regional policy and sustainable development.
in this context, statistics are not only useful for monitoring specific tourism policies, but also in the broader context of regional policy and sustainable development.
the document also addresses the main challenges facing the sector, such as increased global competition, demographic trends, climate change and environmental constraints, the seasonal distribution of tourist movements and the increasing use of new information and communication technologies by customers.
finally, i agree with the rapporteur that fisheries management must be based on up-to-date and rigorous scientific knowledge of the state of resources and that greater controls must be introduced to make fishing more sustainable.
the increasing importance of aquaculture justifies the introduction of provisions on the collection, management and use of environmental, socioeconomic and health data to contribute to its sustainability.
the document recognises the growing importance of aquaculture, which generates sound prospects for the development of this and related activities, and which justifies the introduction of the possibility of applying to this sector also the provisions on the collection, management and use of environmental data, as well as socioeconomic data, thus allowing environmental and health control and monitoring of the sector which will contribute to its sustainability.
i would have preferred to see all the energy put into promoting artificial milk in support of mothers who would gladly breast-feed their children if they received the necessary support.
future eu policy will need to promote sustainable and environmentally friendly investments that promote good working conditions in enterprises affected by foreign investment.
each investment agreement will have to be accompanied by a set of appropriate social and environmental standards as a form of additional guarantee.
the creation of a secure and transparent environment for the functioning and financing of political parties at european level is, however, a profoundly democratic act.
in particular, a single energy market is essential to encourage european competitiveness by reducing external dependence and making energy prices more affordable.
legislative initiatives in the field of energy should be implemented in close coordination between the commission, the member states and the productive sectors concerned.
− the full realisation of the single market is the decisive step towards enabling the european union to achieve its full potential in terms of smart, inclusive and sustainable growth.
the completion of the single market policy is closely linked to integration with other policies such as competition, industry, energy and transport.
it goes without saying that european efforts must be directed towards encouraging sustainable economic growth.
i therefore share the guidelines set out in this document, which in my view can make a real contribution to the transformation of the single market into an innovative, business-friendly environment based on a digital economy and the effective free movement of services.
the first is that the sky is one and the earth is divided by borders that have nothing to do with these issues on our agenda and the second is that we must always aim at sustainable development that does not have just one component.
this sustainable development has three components that must be brought together, namely the economic, environmental and social.
we must be prepared for a gradual phase-out of this type of energy, whose accidents cause irreparable damage to the environment and human health.
careful thinking is required in the formulation of future energy policies.
it is urgent to develop policies aimed at energy saving and efficiency and to increase investment in research into new technologies and renewable energy sources.
this small country is strategically located for the balance of the gulf and its energy supply.
iceland's accession to the european union will mean that europe will be pushed to the north pole, with significant political, economic, environmental and scientific benefits.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of this economic crisis, in the face of this crisis in the mediterranean, in the face of this energy crisis - take the case of japan with regard to nuclear energy - i believe that the eib, the operational arm of this policy, has a very important role to play.
it is true that we need energy, but we also need clean energy and safe energy.
the fukushima tragedy tells us that there are no zero-risk power stations and above all that we must organise a rapid exit from nuclear energy and focus decisively on renewable and alternative sources of energy.
europe needs a new energy policy to stop the construction of new nuclear power stations because of the tremendous impacts these plants have on safety, the environment, the climate and future generations.
a radical change of perspective is needed for a secure future marked by energy savings and the use of renewable sources.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the italian delegation of italy of values voted against the text of the resolution on nuclear energy because it did not have the clarity to say a clear no to nuclear energy.
that is why we must say clearly no to the nuclear option and invest in research and innovation on other sources that are truly green, renewable and clean.
it is precisely because of events beyond human control that we should diversify our energy supply, including by making use of the renewable resources at our disposal.
but if nuclear power is chosen as a source of energy support, it would be important first of all to inform the citizens about the costs, benefits and consequences of such a choice, without forgetting that this technological choice must necessarily be legitimized by the popular will which must be heard and respected.
a resolution on this subject cannot be centred around the issue of nuclear safety without addressing the most important nuclear safeguard, which is an exit strategy from nuclear energy itself.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against the joint resolution as a result of the house's rejection of two key amendments tabled by the s&d group, concerning the development of medium- and long-term strategies for the progressive phasing out of nuclear energy and the setting of binding targets for renewable energy.
the house's negative vote on the entire resolution makes it even more evident that the nuclear issue is no longer just a matter of greater security: it is now essential to start a serious reflection on the energy question and on investments in renewable energy.
the tragic experience of japan teaches us just how necessary it is to discuss nuclear energy in depth, and in this sense the vote by the european parliament is the first step towards a change in energy policy choices, both at european and international level.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the serious accident at the fukushima daiichi nuclear power plant on 11 march 2011, caused by the earthquake and subsequent tsunami, caused damage and long-term health consequences in terms of environmental contamination.
the international atomic energy agency has warned that the safety of nuclear power stations is outdated, and it is therefore necessary to identify measures to ensure the safety of these plants.
i think it is important that europe should review the safety regulations for nuclear power stations to ensure absolute safety levels that can be identified by stress tests that will show any risks and limits of the use of nuclear energy.
it also stresses the need to focus on alternative energy sources such as renewable energy, although nuclear remains indispensable as a low-carbon energy source.
this catastrophe is causing all the countries of the world to reconsider their positions on the use of nuclear energy technologies.
the eu as a whole has been reviewing its approach to nuclear safety for some time now, but it must take into account that this technology will continue to be part of the energy mix of several member states for many years to come.
in the future it may be possible to meet our energy needs from renewable sources, but this is not yet possible and will not be for a long time.
- after the nuclear disaster in japan, we must review the european energy plan.
we must be aware that in any case many countries will continue to be dependent on nuclear energy in the coming decades, but at the same time we cannot allow that there should be plants in europe which put the population at risk.
in some countries, such as italy, there are assessments under way on whether or not to abandon nuclear energy, and it is essential that shared choices at european level also be implemented.
the member states which have invested in nuclear energy are those with the highest public debt.
and again, how much does it cost to dispose of the waste?
as a european union we could begin to imagine other ways of showing the member states and, since the commission will have to provide us with a road map, why not start thinking about real investment in fourth generation nuclear power, clean nuclear power, fusion power, or even start to envisage an energy regulatory plan?
despite the japanese prime minister's announcement that the fukushima plant will be dismantled, the situation remains unresolved with the cooling system of one of the reactors still out of use and a significant dispersion of radioactivity into the environment.
i hope that the contribution to sustainable development will also translate into support for health, education and the promotion of democracy, while respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms as fundamental components of the european union's development policy.
moreover, in the face of the radical changes affecting our southern neighbours, i believe that the time has come to adopt a new european approach that aims not only at defending democracy but also at adopting concrete measures to alleviate migratory pressures and guarantee the security of energy supply.
i think that the emphasis on renewable energy in the candidate countries is very important.
i also support the development, in conjunction with the european commission, of eib project bonds to finance major transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure projects which are essential to achieving the objectives of growth and cohesion within the union.
china has opened up to the west economically, but without combining production with respect for the environment and safety at work, and it is unable to open up to democracy and pluralism.
if negotiated well, the benefit will be to both sides by promoting sustainable development, with a gradual eradication of child labour and the respect of more advanced social protection.
some amendments which we will be voting on tomorrow in the house may now alter this compromise and balance and i am calling on my colleagues, and in particular the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, to come up with a measure which is balanced and sustainable for all.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
− i voted in favour of the 2009 landfill permit for the european environment agency because i believe that the work done is, in these times, fundamental.
the vote today gave a discharge to the european environment agency for the financial year 2009. i voted in favour because the audits carried out by the court of auditors and the committee on budgetary control have shown that all the operations carried out by the agency have been carried out in full legality and regularity.
i also believe that the agency is doing very important work, and i share the efforts recently made to improve public engagement on important environmental issues such as climate change, biodiversity and natural resource management.
− the european parliament, in its resolution adopted today, grants the director of the european environment agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009. the european parliament expressly welcomes the agency as a reliable provider of independent and secure environmental information for all union institutions, member states and decision-making bodies.
− the european parliament, by its resolution adopted today, grants the executive director of the artemis joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2009. the european parliament underlines that the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 to define and implement a 'research agenda' for the development of key technologies for embedded information systems in various fields of application, in order to strengthen european competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the emergence of new markets and new societal applications.
− i am in favour of the european union's accession to the agreement on the protection and sustainable development of the prespa park area, signed by greece, macedonia and albania, as this park is a natural area of international interest for its geomorphology, ecology, biodiversity and cultural importance.
i also share the objectives and principles of the agreement, which are based on the sustainable use of natural resources, attention to the conservation of ecosystems and biodiversity, and the prevention, monitoring and reduction of pollution of the waters of the prespa lakes.
the agreement the eu will sign will help achieve important objectives for the protection of this area, by protecting the ecosystem and introducing the sustainable use of renewable energy.
prespa park is a natural area of international interest because of its geomorphology, ecology, biodiversity and cultural importance.
the document adopted today aims to establish cooperation to ensure the integrated protection of the ecosystem and the sustainable development of the prespa park area, including the preparation of integrated basin management projects based on international and eu standards.
the agreement will contribute to the proper implementation of the water framework directive, to environmental protection, to improving the living standards of the inhabitants of the area and to strengthening good neighbourly relations in a particularly sensitive area of the balkans.
we know that marine life is not only a major source of human food, but also a key factor in the health of the entire ecosystem.
it is therefore important that all levels of government, from the regions to the central government, and even the european union itself, use all the means at their disposal to promote regulatory measures and legislative instruments that are geared to the protection of fish stocks, the only guarantee for the long-term sustainability of fishing activities.
this international agreement, if properly implemented by national actors, will be an important tool for the long-term protection of marine fauna and the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
we must not forget that europe, the third largest fishing power in the world, has been fighting for years to ensure that member states and third countries comply with the rules, in order to guarantee a sustainable fisheries market and to protect the fisheries environment from possible damage.
− illegal fishing is one of the most serious threats to the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources worldwide.
the document adopted today aims to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal fishing by applying effective measures under the responsibility of the port state, thus ensuring the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources and marine ecosystems.
− i voted in favour of authorising the 2009 discharge to be given to the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy, as the accounts and related transactions are considered reliable, as stated in the report.
− the european parliament, in its resolution adopted today, grants the director of the european joint undertaking for the iter project and the development of fusion energy discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2009. parliament urged the joint undertaking to amend its financial regulation to take account of the recommendations made by the court of auditors.
ensuring pakistan's recovery and future sustainable development is of utmost importance, not only for its citizens, but also for the security and stability of the region.
we in parliament, who are notoriously responsible for expressing the political will of our citizens and thus for making their demands concrete and assessing their sustainability in the long term, are required to have a global view and to be able to defend it vis-à-vis the other institutions.
i am sure that after this very important opening by the hungarian presidency, we will not waste a minute and we will try to start the interinstitutional talks with the council as soon as possible so we can find, i am sure, a very accommodating manner in which to manage the register together, the three institutions working on this issue with the same goal of increased transparency of european union legislation.
we are already preparing the work to consult consumers on some fundamental questions, namely: the type of information that is important and how it is to be made available; how technological developments, such as e-commerce, affect the way textiles are purchased; how the growing requirements for traceability, sustainability and corporate social responsibility are affecting the textile fibre market; how we can best use the technologies available in the digital age; how can we, as the institutions of the european union, adapt our legislation to the growing ethical, social and environmental needs of citizens?
we would have liked a more ambitious plan with recognition of the place of origin or at least that the place of origin should be included immediately for products coming from third countries which are notoriously not complying with any rules or regulations to protect consumers, workers, the environment and children - rules and regulations which are now established practice in europe and constitute the real guarantee for our consumers and our citizens.
in the face of the strategic repositioning of countries such as the united states, china and russia and the growing shortage of raw materials and energy resources, europe should play a very important and decisive role, but it is quite clear that it is coming to these meetings unprepared.
the arsenis dossier on forest protection is a flagship report, a basis for how the european parliament intends to tackle the protection of our forest heritage and the adaptation of forests to climate change.
nevertheless, we have found common ground and have also achieved particular objectives, such as the removal of certain areas from the speculation of building or the greater protection of forests of great value for biodiversity, such as those in the northern boreal and mediterranean regions, and a ban on building on land affected by intentional damage.
these are the facts we need to bear in mind to understand the importance of a european strategy for sustainable forest management and a more effective protection of this considerable european heritage.
we must remember both the important role of forests in providing socio-economic services and their fundamental contribution to the fight against climate change.
− the development of a european strategy for the protection of forests is part of the eu's overall commitment to combating climate change.
finally, it is relevant to require appropriate sustainability criteria in the production of biomass for energy purposes.
a framework of commission guidelines should be established, binding sustainability criteria should be introduced, including the mandatory nature of national forestry programmes, payments for ecosystem services should be formalised, and forest protection policies should be strengthened by reintroducing the fire prevention regulation.
these relations will be able to resolve economic and commercial issues as well as environmental ones.
on this front, i would like to point out that some studies show that a low-energy animal diet could lead to an increased incidence of disease and therefore to an increased use of antibiotics.
milk quotas, investment in industry and environmental protection are important: but it is with culture that we will build europe, and we must do so not with words but with programmes and actions that we know and want to put into practice.
the report focuses on research and the exchange of best practices, the proper use of the structural funds and programmes such as comenius, and the need for states to reclaim their central role in children's early learning years, in order to ensure smart, inclusive and sustainable growth.
the europe 2020 strategy with its youth on the move initiative has given a key role to youth with the aim of achieving the five main objectives by 2020: employment, research and innovation, climate and energy, education and poverty reduction.
− youth on the move (yom) is one of the flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy to promote smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth.
this could therefore cause high economic and social costs and negatively affect the union's sustainable economic growth and future improvement of its global competitiveness.
this is why a new protocol must be implemented today, consistent with the commitment made by european countries in 2002, and capable of ensuring sustainable fishing practices that also contribute to the development of the countries concerned.
i am in favour of the resolution because i believe it is important to strengthen the security of energy supply by informing the markets and giving consumers greater assurance about the state of oil reserves.
to activate these levers, which will be used from now until 2020 to achieve research objectives, energy efficiency and internationalisation processes, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, we need a strong political will to set in motion the incentive and guidance mechanisms currently in the hands of the member states, for which the european funding instruments provide valuable support.
innovation is the key to achieving sustainable growth and contributing to a fairer and greener society.
a 'european status for the artist', based on favourable working conditions and tax incentives, enhances europe as a dynamic and stimulating environment for living and working, attractive to skilled and creative people.
mr president, this regulation is part of the measures to define general indicators for the integration of gdp: european environmental economic accounts should contribute to policy evaluation by providing data on the interaction between environmental and economic factors.
the commission proposal is acceptable even if new and complex bureaucratic procedures are created to control the actual environmental policies of the states, so we shall abstain.
as far as i am concerned, i believe that this agreement with a country with which we have an old bond of friendship is important, provided that it is based on the right principles, on genuine reciprocity and is a balanced and ambitious agreement, not limited to the elimination of tariff and non-tariff barriers, but represents an opportunity for a qualitative leap in the elimination of environmental and health differences, particularly in the agricultural sector, the protection of endangered animal species or particular economic extractive activities with a high environmental impact - i am referring to asbestos or tar sands - or which penalize access to pharmaceuticals in the poorest countries.
the commission wants to ensure a balanced, ambitious, high-quality agreement and it wants to be equally ambitious on sustainable development.
furthermore the commission does not propose entering into any commitment that would restrict the regulatory freedom of the eu, be it on environmental issues such as fuel quality, or on any other essential policy objective.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all share the need to make freight transport more sustainable, but this is achieved mainly through infrastructure investment and the gradual replacement of the fleet.
the environmental spirit of the eurovignette and the application of the polluter-pays principle actually conceal a serious competitive disadvantage for some countries compared to others, with a heavy impact not only on their road transport sector, largely composed of small and medium-sized enterprises, but also on their respective country systems; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european railway system is not affected by the noise pollution caused by the use of the railway.
- mr president, regulations (ec) no 1541/98 and (eec) no 3030/93, which were originally adopted with the aim of applying trade policy measures to the textile sector, have now become two outdated texts which place limits on the free market and are ill-suited to the evolution of the new regulatory environment.
− we strongly supported this report in view of the eu's political commitment to simplify existing legislation: we want to create a better and clearer regulatory environment for business.
the commission's proposal to repeal council regulation (ec) no 1541/98 on the attestation of origin for certain textile products and to amend council regulation (ec) no 3030/93 on common rules for imports of certain textile products originating in third countries aims to simplify the legislation in force with a view to creating a better and clearer legislative environment for businesses, especially as regards the simplification of administrative formalities carried out by importers of certain textile products put into free circulation in the community.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
the lack of clarity on the financial sustainability of such an important project for the european economy, but also ambitious, requires a cautious and concrete approach.
it is also clear that both egnos and gnss make an important contribution to safety and environmental protection.
a widespread deployment of egnos across europe to neighbouring third countries will have a strong positive impact on the union's economy as a whole and on safety and environmental objectives, as well as facilitating a smoother flow of road traffic.
the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment.
the report emphasises fair competition, including monitoring of state funding, environmental considerations and a high standard of passenger rights.
a number of criteria are recommended for assessing their content, including balanced access to markets and investment opportunities, and fair competition, in terms of state, environmental and social subsidies.
in addition, the effectiveness of the measure is not demonstrated: road transport, and its costs in terms of pollution production, will continue to rise until an intermodal infrastructure network is established.
the house voted in favour of the road toll directive, which represents a step forward in protecting the health of european citizens and a commitment to reducing the harmful effects of road freight pollution.
by introducing the 'polluter pays' principle for the first time in this sector, the aim is to encourage more sustainable and safer transport, thus favouring alternatives such as rail transport.
i do not think that this compromise is the right solution, especially for a territory such as italy, which is the starting point of transport flows which are a source of wealth for our country system and which must be safeguarded by identifying appropriate instruments to combat air and noise pollution, but which take into account its structural and logistical peculiarities.
the effectiveness of the measure is not demonstrated: road transport and its pollution costs will continue to rise: that is why we, the italian delegation of the epp, are opposed to this.
it is certainly right to fight pollution and try to reduce traffic congestion, but the introduction of a further tax burden does not seem to me to be the best solution.
the new eurovignette directive, which aims to encourage the implementation of harmonised charging systems between member states to improve the efficiency and environmental performance of road freight transport, ends up penalizing some peripheral states, such as italy, which are destinations of departure or arrival of goods.
under the pretext of reducing co2 emissions, a tax is being introduced which is intended to discourage road transport in favour of rail and intermodality.
this is why road tolls for the transport sector will reflect the cost of noise and air pollution as well as infrastructure costs.
- i voted against the text tabled by the rapporteur, mr saïd el khadraoui, which allows for a surcharge to be charged for air and noise pollution from heavy vehicles.
european environmental policy is becoming increasingly crucial in the light of the economic crisis and the eu 2020 strategy, and only through reliable data can european environmental policy be monitored in depth.
environmental data are the only tool for evaluating environmental policy and should be supplemented in the medium term with additional reliable information.
in addition, data could be monitored more easily if reliable information on the interactions between environmental and economic factors were available: environmental economic accounts could contribute to policy evaluation by providing data on the environmental impact of economic policies and will be instrumental in economic-environmental decision-making.
the rapporteur believes that the proposal for a regulation under consideration is a first step towards the drawing up of a more comprehensive environmental accounting system.
this indicator, although it refers to chemical and physical quantities which are not immediately available for communication between elected officials and voters, is the result of a number of economic decisions: it indicates, among other things, the concentration of polluting economic activities, the composition of the energy mix used for production activities and for heating homes and offices, the use of motor vehicles and the management of road and traffic infrastructure, the insulation of buildings and the quality of materials used, the presence or absence of green areas, to name just a few.
it is therefore clear that an environmental indicator can be transformed into an economic and political indicator.
- the treaty of amsterdam has placed great emphasis on the interrelationship between economic and environmental policy.
this is why factors such as sustainable transport and energy resources have become key issues in other policy areas as well.
in fact, as early as 2006, the european council called on member states to extend national accounts to the core aspects of sustainable development, in order to provide fully consistent data.
i am voting in favour of this proposal for a regulation because i believe that it will facilitate the work of the national statistical institutes by allowing the production of harmonised and timely data on environmental accounting.
in this respect, the adoption of a european legal basis for the collection of data on environmental economic accounts will provide estimates at european level of the existing interaction between the economy and the environment.
finally, i hope that this instrument can be seen as a further confirmation of the leading role played by the european union in environmental accounts worldwide.
− only with reliable data can european environmental policy be assessed in depth, which is why data collection by member states should be compulsory.
we refer in particular to data on atmospheric emissions, environmental taxes for various economic activities and accounting for material flows at the macroeconomic level.
in our view, environmental economic accounts should contribute to policy evaluation, in particular by providing data on the environmental impact of economic activities, which could prove particularly useful for decision-making in economic-environmental matters.
we believe it is important to check the reliability and comparability of the data in order to make some improvements and to ensure a high level of quality in economic and environmental accounting.
- ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a regulation on european environmental economic accounts is intended to provide useful tools for achieving some important objectives such as a european environmental accounting strategy and a deepening of the work of the statistical institutes which provide data on the subject to the administrative bodies.
i voted in favour of the text because i believe that it is important for sustainable development to integrate environmental issues into the policies of the union and to have national accounts and a european programme with integrated economic and environmental accounting on transport, recycling and waste prevention, atmospheric emissions, climate change, sustainable production and consumption.
− the european council in 2006 called on the european union and its member states to extend statistical data for sustainable development and existing national accounts data.
but the issues concerning the european environmental economic accounts were also discussed in particular.
the in-depth assessment of european environmental economic accounts can only be done in the presence of reliable data, for this reason member states should be equipped with common methodology and accounting standards, definitions, classifications and rules to be developed in a framework binding on all states.
in order to clarify the objectives pursued and the future orientations with regard to environmental economic accounts and so that they may constitute an indispensable element for decisions on economic and environmental matters, i am voting in favour of the proposal in question.
in recent years, environmental policy and sustainability policy have become increasingly important, with increased attention to the integration of economic and environmental policy.
climate change, sustainable transport, nature, biodiversity, the use and exploitation of raw materials and natural resources, and waste management have seen their importance in member states' policies increase exponentially.
this is why evaluations of european environmental policy and eu thematic strategies can only be carried out in a serious and rigorous way if reliable data are provided.
the effort to introduce an intermediate category of regions is particularly critical in this respect, especially since in several cases the recessionary years we have had behind us have widened the internal gaps, making it even more important to provide efficient and adequate support for the less developed regions of europe, to combat waste and to give a clear vision of development policy.
i believe, however, that the challenge of the intermediate categories, with the safeguard clause, is a challenge we must accept in order to open a new phase in cohesion policy in europe and also to substantiate in cohesion policy the more balanced and more sustainable development we want to ensure for europe in the coming years.
the development of energy transport infrastructure, investment in research and development, training and youth policies must be given new impetus in the future union budgets, while the fundamental pillars of cohesion policy and agricultural policy must be maintained at the current level of funding.
i think it represents a great step forward in terms of consumer and environmental protection, and this also in relation to the positions of individual states, which sometimes show delays.
mr president, the polluter pays principle is undoubtedly fundamental to solving the environmental problems aggravated by the industrial development of europe.
however, it is not always appropriate to target only one category, but we must also defend the principle that it is not only the road hauliers who must pay, but also those in europe who do not support an alternative transport system with sufficient energy.
europe still has too few programmes to convert the transport sector to greener and less environmentally-impact solutions, and resources to improve its efficiency and environmental performance are lacking.
it is therefore necessary to recall that we cannot reduce our own traffic because, on the contrary, we must increase the number of crossings and transport and, therefore, road hauliers cannot be the only ones to pay for the ecological damage caused by others.
mr president, today's vote is a significant step forward in the introduction of the polluter pays principle, also in the road haulage sector, which contributes significantly to air and noise pollution.
i must point out, however, that efforts must be made to identify better ways of allocating the revenue, by making it compulsory for member states to invest these resources in improving the ten network and infrastructure to reduce pollution.
mr president, thanks to the amsterdam treaty, environmental policy and sustainability policy have gained greater importance and attention has been focused on the integration of economic and environmental policy and the integration of environmental issues into policies and other areas.
key areas include climate change, sustainable transport, nature, biodiversity, health and the environment, the use of natural resources and waste management, and the international dimension of sustainable development.
in june 2006, the european council, in its conclusions, called on the union and its member states to extend national accounts to the core aspects of sustainable development.
the national accounts must therefore be supplemented by integrated economic and environmental accounting, capable of providing fully consistent data.
i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation because it creates new uses for national accounting data, for environmental statistics and for other statistical areas.
mr president, in a highly globalised economy such as the present one, the opportunity and ability to study and work in an international environment is an essential condition for professional success.
the key factors identified in the european strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth require, as regards vocational education and training, to be translated into concrete measures at the level of the european union and the member states.
the adaptation of training skills to the skills needed also to those of citizenship to the new sustainable and intelligent development goals, as well as to the policies for the transition from training to work, is fundamental, including by accelerating the recognition of professional qualifications, qualifications and training credits.
mr president, the report by mr garriga polledo is a very important piece of legislation which will help to define a new financial framework for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe.
i believe that the creation of this new category cannot be achieved by taking resources away from the existing categories, which are a necessary condition for promoting a balanced, harmonious and sustainable development of our communities.
an essential starting point for tackling climate change and environmental degradation, the universality and indivisibility of human rights, poverty reduction and development for all, the consequences of demographic change, migration, international organised crime.
a debate needs to be launched on how to support the international community's commitment to sustainable development and poverty eradication, and this effort needs to continue beyond 2015. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
despite being an advanced country, where there is little doubt that social rights and the most advanced environmental standards are being respected, the commission, even before parliament, has laid the basis for negotiations with its canadian counterpart on many specific points and issues which we must be satisfied with.
my vote is in favour of a resolution on a chapter of the european trade policy agenda which should be taken as a model when dealing with countries such as india, china and pakistan, which certainly do not guarantee fair competition like canada, let alone respect for social rights and environmental standards.
we believe that new investments are needed which respect the environment and promote good working conditions.
this approach and vision cannot and must not only be applied to the internal eu environment, but also to external action, at all times, in particular when agreements are being negotiated.
companies must also contribute to sustainable development in order to promote quality conditions for workers, but the difference between developed and developing countries persists in their social protection systems.
- a company can be socially responsible if it adopts a solid model that takes into account not only the economic, but also the social and environmental impacts of its actions.
− in today's globalised economy, the opportunity and ability to study and work in an international environment is a prerequisite for the professional success of european citizens.
the key drivers identified in the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth require, as regards education and training, to be translated into concrete measures at european union level.
these objectives have also been included in the europe 2020 strategy, which states that smart, sustainable and inclusive growth must be pursued.
the current socioeconomic environment requires the ability to work in international environments and therefore the learning opportunities must be extended, also in view of the role of enterprises which increasingly need competent staff with practical training experiences who can work effectively from the outset.
the factors identified in the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth require, as regards education and vocational training, to be translated into concrete measures at the level of the european union and the member states.
− in an increasingly globalised economy, the opportunity and ability to study and work in an international environment is an important condition for professional success.
what matters are the skills and competences which, at the end of a vocational education or training path, can be brought into the work environment.
but this instrument must be designed intelligently and must be such as to improve the present situation without creating further waste of resources.
it should therefore be made clear that development cooperation is the political dimension of the european union's external action, which is not designed to meet european interests but to defend the interests of the most vulnerable and marginalised people on the planet, through the eradication of poverty and sustainable human, social and economic development, in other words by defending the right to a decent life for all.
as stated above, since impact assessments will in no way replace political discourse and democratically legitimized decision-making, but only contribute substantially to the technical preparation of the content of a political decision, i am voting in favour of the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the prevention of pollution from
in writing.
i support this measure because taking better account of the needs of the member states will make it possible to understand what the consequences (social, environmental, financial, economic) of a legislative act might be.
at present, in the light of the increasing interdependence between economic, social and environmental issues, gdp is beginning to show many weaknesses as it does not record important social factors such as welfare, social inclusion, climate change or resource efficiency.
it does not measure environmental sustainability, resource efficiency, social inclusion and social progress in general.
we need to measure quality of life in societies; we need to consider that achieving and sustaining quality of life involves important, consensual factors such as health, education, culture, employment, housing, environmental conditions, etc.
a number of international initiatives have highlighted the broad consensus among policy makers, economic and environmental experts and civil society on the development of indicators to complement gdp in order to support decision-making with more complete information.
gdp is not a reliable basis for policy debate: it measures neither environmental sustainability nor social inclusion.
the commission's objective - to adopt a unit of measurement that goes beyond gdp to take a more comprehensive view of a country's development and progress, including for example environmental sustainability and social inclusion - is important and not controversial, but the rapporteur questions the commission's proposed strategy for achieving it.
i think it is appropriate to introduce new measures of gdp assessment, such as environmental sustainability or social inclusion, in order to obtain from the set of data constituting gdp a more authentic picture of the country or region to which it relates.
now, in addition to income and wealth information, other environmental indicators affect a country's standard of living and cannot be ignored any further.
that is why i support mrs rosbach's report, which sets out new indicators which take account of the broad lines of environmental policy such as energy use, biodiversity, water use and waste generation.
it should be remembered that gdp is a measure of production and does not measure, for example, environmental sustainability.
i am therefore in favour of the creation of new indicators to measure social and economic progress in the medium and long term, for example indicators that take account of climate change, biodiversity, resource efficiency and social inclusion.
the development of a member state or a given region cannot therefore be measured merely by an economic indicator such as gdp, but also by the quality of life, which is determined by factors such as health, education, culture, employment, housing and climatic and environmental conditions.
unfortunately, gdp is no longer a reliable basis for policy debate because it cannot measure environmental sustainability or social inclusion on its own.
this is considered a global indicator of overall social development and progress in general, but it does not take into account either the calculation of environmental sustainability or social inclusion.
at that meeting, the commission argued that gdp is not an adequate long-term measurement system, and that economic and social progress are not sufficient to assess issues such as climate change, resource efficiency or personal well-being, and subsequently proposed new indicators to assess progress in achieving social, economic and environmental objectives.
egnos and galileo are projects that will produce around eur 60 billion in positive externalities for the eu economy and society, in terms of improved road and air safety, reduced air pollution and pesticide consumption, new job creation and improved public safety, generating very high value for money.
the decision to increase the resources of the new multiannual financial framework by 5% will ensure the stability of the existing programming cycles and the launching of new investments in areas such as the european energy and transport networks, which will in turn enable europe to defend its competitiveness and prepare the ground for long-term economic growth.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new eu-us partnership agreement on the environment, which is expected to be signed in the near future.
− mr president, the report on a new multiannual financial framework (mff) for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe is a valuable piece of collective analysis on the future configurations of the eu budget.
finally, european funding would be directed to developing countries in relation to climate change, an issue which, beyond the environmental propaganda, will certainly not change the fate of the ecosystem.
we will have to face very complex challenges in addition to the economic crisis, demographic decline and energy shortages, and the response to these challenges will have to be sought in the eu 2020 strategy, which will have to be the political reference of the next mff.
we need to identify a number of key priorities for the next mff, such as growth and jobs, sustainable development, cohesion for growth and jobs, citizenship and a global europe.
to meet the challenges ahead, we support the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which should enable europe to recover from the crisis and strengthen itself through job creation and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
- the report by mr salvador garriga on 'investing in the future: a new multiannual financial framework (mff) for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe' is an important step in the institutional and economic reshaping of the european union after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon.
since the beginning of our presidency, we have dedicated all our energy and have been tireless in our efforts in promoting the common european agenda.
i am thinking of the open international issues, such as energy security, the maghreb, nuclear iran, terrorism, the caucasus, nagorno-karabakh, climate change and others.
moscow can put at our disposal - as is already partly the case - mineral and energy resources, cooperation in military security and the fight against terrorism and organised crime.
it is also a developing country, facing a difficult environmental situation and progressive desertification, and has recently been hit by extreme weather conditions.
mongolia must be encouraged in its desire to forge closer relations with the european union, to adopt our industrial standards and norms, but also to move towards a market economy and closer economic and trade relations, made possible by a climate of legal certainty and the development of the rule of law.
the energy mix remains the responsibility of national governments and parliaments.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european network of experts in the field of environmental protection, the establishment of a european network of experts in the field of environmental protection, and the establishment of a european network of experts in the field of environmental protection.
russia is one of europe's most important economic partners and a neighbour on whom, among other things, european energy policy depends.
as regards energy security, we believe that the supply of natural resources should not be used as a tool for political pressure but should be based on the principles of interdependence and transparency, as well as equal access to markets, infrastructure and investment, so as to establish a legally binding energy framework.
numerous international challenges, in particular those related to the middle east, libya, iran, terrorism, energy security, climate change and the financial crisis, cannot be effectively addressed without responsible and cooperative relations with russia.
we have chosen to promote the protection of biodiversity and the many specific features of the european union's territory and production through a rural development policy which makes it possible to exploit the full natural and human potential of rural areas, but we must also aim to make agricultural enterprises competitive.
as regards the objectives of the cap under the europe 2020 strategy, the cap can contribute to the growth of a sustainable economy by responding adequately to new challenges and taking into account the diversity and richness of agriculture and the specificities of the 27 european states.
environmental challenges and the fight against climate change give the cap a new role after 2013, and i believe that a stronger and more sustainable cap is needed, with a budget that is able to meet the objectives to be pursued, with particular attention to the development of quality food products and the needs of the small farmer.
the emphasis, the emphasis of the measures is on procedures and sanctions, less - much less, too little - on investment and a strategy for sustainable growth, which europe should promote and implement.
the problem of radioactive waste must be addressed and solved.
the first is the ban on waste transfer.
the proposal for a directive on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste is the result of work which, despite the difficulties of the negotiations, due also to the particular and delicate international context, has succeeded in drawing up a coherent and harmonised legislative framework aimed at ensuring the safe management of this type of waste, irrespective of future applications and future developments for nuclear energy.
greater attention to technical and scientific progress, also in the name of the principle of reversibility; increased attention to the protection of the environment and public health; the commitment to clarify responsibility in accordance with the 'polluter pays' principle, transparency and the role of licensees.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i take this opportunity to express my opposition to a unilateral increase in the european target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by more than 20% by 2020 in the absence of a global climate agreement involving all the major emitters.
therefore, in my view, the priority for the union must first be to achieve the already very ambitious 20-20-20 targets set out in the climate and energy package.
only then will we be able to define a community environmental policy which will enable european companies to remain globally competitive in order to support economic growth and, above all, job creation.
i would like to conclude by sharing the concerns expressed by the representatives of the italian industrial system, which is not currently in a position to sign up to more ambitious commitments than those already agreed by the european council and reaffirmed by the european commission in the european emissions trading directive.
the 2050 roadmap assumed that achieving the 20% energy efficiency target would automatically allow for a 25% reduction in emissions, without changing the current regulatory framework.
we should instead go down the road of energy saving and renewable energy.
in this connection, i express my support for commissioner oettinger's new energy efficiency proposal which will certainly save money for citizens and businesses by helping them to manage their consumption.
in discussing future eu climate policies, we cannot also ignore the new european and international energy landscape that has emerged as a result of the north african uprisings and the nuclear crisis.
these factors will have a significant impact on energy costs over the medium term and will require an impact assessment on the current european environmental strategy.
it is therefore necessary to reorient our environmental policies by creating the necessary convergences with energy policies and by moving beyond traditional sectoral approaches.
these are all issues which we are seriously concerned about and which really need to give us back a fundamental role for the security of the european union, and which above all - and this is my main concern - urge us not to waste the opportunity of the trilogue, which can and must be a valuable opportunity for a practical and useful debate, which will lead us this year to a shared vision of the budgetary choices we are going to make.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the difficult economic and financial environment in europe has highlighted the weaknesses of individual member states struggling to avert the sovereign debt crisis.
smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, support for research, development, growth, innovation and jobs, and efforts to develop small and medium-sized enterprises are our priorities.
my second brief comment is in response to mr bütikofer, who claims that we have not done enough to reflect energy priorities in the next budget.
unfortunately, this also affects programming for the next period in relation to major energy interconnectors.
we have again mentioned research, development, social cohesion and energy in this house today, all priorities on which the budgetary item is an important measure of the seriousness of our intentions.
i hope, therefore, that in this trilogue, this climate of strong responsibility which we share - and this is the way it should be - will open up a calm, responsible and constructive negotiation for the future of our union.
they generate 80% of the gross domestic product and consume up to 70% of the energy consumed in europe.
their development is therefore directly linked to areas such as employment, social inclusion, environmental protection and the achievement of cohesion policy objectives in general.
i believe that the negotiations conducted by the european commission, which led to the renewal of the protocol to the partnership agreement, have resulted in the drafting of a mutually beneficial document, capable of improving the level of cooperation between the eu and seychelles and of promoting a partnership which will enable seychelles to implement a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible use of fishery resources in its fishing zone.
the new fisheries agreement between the european community and the republic of seychelles will be valid for a period of three years and will facilitate job creation, sustainable exploitation of marine resources and responsible fishing, based on the principle of non-discrimination between the different fleets of fishing vessels operating in the area.
at the same time, it will promote a political dialogue on the necessary reforms in order to strengthen cooperation between the parties, supporting a partnership that allows the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible use of fisheries resources in the seychelles' fishing zone.
but fisheries partnership agreements must not only be a legal way for european vessels to access the resources of third countries, they must also be a tool for promoting the sustainable exploitation of all marine resources.
the new protocol is in line with the objectives of the fisheries partnership agreement which seek to strengthen cooperation between the eu and seychelles and to promote a partnership framework to facilitate the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the seychelles' fishing zone, in the interests of both parties.
the new protocol covers a period of three years from the adoption of the council decision on the signing of the protocol and its provisional application and after the expiry of the protocol in force on 17 january 2011. for these reasons and in order to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the republic of seychelles for the development and responsible exploitation of sustainable fisheries, i am voting in favour.
but today's decision strengthens cooperation between the parties and promotes a partnership capable of developing sustainable fisheries and of using seychelles' resources in a balanced way.
in particular, extending this partnership agreement contributes to the sustainability of the eu atlantic tuna sector by establishing a stable legal framework.
the new fisheries agreement between the european community and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe will be valid for a period of three years and will strengthen the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources outside eu waters, while addressing environmental, social and economic issues.
for these reasons and in order to consolidate the sustainability of the eu tuna sector, the commission has decided to extend the current fishing season to the following year.
the partnership agreement can help to consolidate the sustainability of the eu atlantic tuna sector by establishing a stable medium-term legal framework for the union's vessels and dependent sectors, and by helping to preserve the continuity of the fisheries areas covered by agreements in the gulf of guinea.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this recommendation concerns the agreement on aviation safety of 6 may 2009. in view of the climate of cooperation which has emerged in the agreement, i shall vote in favour.
it would be a grave sin to waste or leave unused the resources available, and then it is good to adopt as a matter of urgency a results-oriented approach by setting clear and measurable objectives and result indicators.
cohesion policy continues to prove its importance as a major contribution to improving the socioeconomic environment.
− the report on the european urban agenda and its future in cohesion policy stresses the fact that, further to the significant contribution of cohesion policy interventions to the development of urban areas, a range of other eu policies (such as environment, transport and energy) have a strong impact on urban development.
to this end, it is essential to pursue projects that are sustainable in terms of cost and resources and flexible, as each city is different and deserves solutions that best suit its needs.
the urban dimension of cohesion policy should be geared towards supporting the development of basic physical infrastructure, the modernisation of the economic, social and environmental characteristics of cities, urban redevelopment and the promotion of social innovation in disadvantaged neighbourhoods.
often, especially in urban areas with problems of social exclusion or environmental pollution, esf resources could be used to support local projects to prevent exclusion implemented in a coordinated and joint manner by public authorities and private bodies forming part of a network of cities.
the european commission and the eib have developed three financial instruments, one of which is aimed at joint support for sustainable development in urban areas (the jessica project).
on the one hand, it would effectively promote the deepening of the internal market by helping to remove the physical and cultural barriers which are holding it back; the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's policy on the environment and the environment in the context of the european union's policy on the environment.
in particular, the experience of recent years clearly shows that erdf financing of economic interventions - such as for innovation, research, the environment, etc.
we believe that erdf funding for innovation, research, environment and smes can only be more effective if it is closely coordinated and integrated with social action in general.
the report by mr stavrakakis calls for rural development measures under the eafrd and sustainable development measures for fisheries areas, undertaken with the support of the eff, to be integrated into a single framework with the other structural funds, and for coordination to be strengthened also between the instruments of cohesion policy as such and the activities of the seventh framework programme and the competitiveness and innovation programme.
− cohesion policy aims at sustainable and inclusive economic growth that is evenly distributed across territory, reducing disparities between regions.
at a particularly difficult time for the eu, it is crucial to react by modifying, complementing and correcting the current model of sustainable growth, strengthening economic governance alongside the democratic legitimacy of the decisions taken.
however, to achieve these results, it is necessary to go the way of full alignment with the plans for the recovery of employment and social protection policies, which are the key to a new model of sustainable growth.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
we believe that the requirements of national budgetary frameworks should not only ensure planning on the basis of realistic forecasts, but also ensure an appropriate level of attention to the sustainability of their social protection systems, including health and pension systems.
this is because we must reach a new agreement which no longer obliges the states in difficulty to ask for derogations from existing agreements but which, through the renegotiation of the pact itself, allows new criteria to be established from which sustainable obligations and achievable objectives can emerge.
the directives concern the emissions from agricultural tractors and engines of non-road mobile machinery.
finally, i would like to point out that the amendment of this directive will have a negligible environmental impact but will generate significant economic benefits by enabling eu producers to overcome the current crisis and at the same time respect the limits of european environmental protection legislation.
on the other hand, it is not a question of retreating from the important question of pollution, but of using a criterion which has been adopted on the basis of common sense.
- ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to amend directive 2000/25/ec on emissions from agricultural tractors is only quantitative, but it does not affect or alter the environmental protection objectives, nor does it affect the operational and expiry dates.
this directive addresses exhaust gas emissions from diesel engines installed in tractors by setting the maximum level of emissions, depending on the power of the engine used, and organises in successive time steps the pathway to gradual emission reductions.
allowing the sale of a larger proportion of tractors calibrated to the old, more permissive emission limits will in fact help to protect the economic interests of this strategic manufacturing sector, without altering the environmental protection objectives already planned.
the commission has proposed a 50% exemption for vehicles produced in the eu over the last five years, due to the technological backlog which makes it impossible to comply with the mechanical changes needed to move to the new phase, except at disproportionate cost, and as a consequence of the economic crisis which has hit the tractor market, which has been declining by 20% a year since 2008. we would have liked both directives to accept the commission's proposals, as the impact on emissions would be absolutely negligible.
- i voted in favour of the report on the management of radioactive waste because it helps to build up a homogeneous body of legislation to ensure safe management, as parliament has long called for harmonisation of the rules.
in accordance with the principle of reversibility, it is, however, necessary to provide for technical design and solutions for final disposal, thus allowing potential access to and recovery of waste for technical reasons or in the event that scientific progress favours the establishment of new technological solutions such as transmutation.
the responsibility for the safe management of spent fuel and waste remains with the member states but compliance with this obligation can be reconciled with the pursuit of joint initiatives aimed at shared management of radioactive waste under strict and appropriately defined conditions.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the proposal for a directive is to ensure that the member states establish a national regulatory and organizational framework and draw up appropriate national programmes for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, irrespective of the prospects for nuclear energy and non-energy applications.
- 40 000 m3 of radioactive waste are produced in the european union each year, of which 80% is low-level short-lived waste, 5% is low-level long-lived waste and less than 10% is high-level waste.
in view of these facts, i believe it is important to establish a community regulatory framework which, with the help of national programmes, will regulate the production and disposal of spent fuel and radioactive waste.
the objective of achieving sustainable disposal of certain substances requires continuous monitoring and the progressive development of long-term technological solutions.
that is why i agree with the rapporteur that we must focus on reversibility, and hope that research will soon lead to the final transmutation of spent fuel and radioactive waste for other uses.
in fact, research and technological development are the key to the breakthrough in this sector, which will allow the safe use of nuclear energy, capable of meeting the energy demand of the food, medical, industrial, agricultural, research and education sectors.
finally, i hope that the adoption of this report will be an important step towards the achievement of a european energy plan.
− the tragedy of the earthquake in japan is forcing europe to reflect more deeply on the consequences of the use of nuclear technology and its impact on the safety of european citizens; the european parliament, in approving the report on the proposal for a directive on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, shows its particular concern for this issue by expressing a clear desire to find definitive and common solutions to the storage of nuclear waste in europe.
i therefore welcome two amendments tabled by the s&d group, which call for parliament to be involved in the co-decision procedure with the council on matters relating to the use of nuclear energy and which establish the fundamental ban on the export of waste to third countries, a ban which shows parliament's determination to take its responsibilities seriously.
the vote by parliament is therefore a further step towards a gradual move away from nuclear power towards sustainable energy solutions that are safe for citizens.
- ladies and gentlemen, the commission's proposal for a directive establishing an eu regulatory framework for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste.
establishing requirements for member states to establish a national organisational and regulatory framework, so that they can develop appropriate national programmes for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, from generation to disposal.
the proposal is based on the euratom treaty and, in particular, on the guidelines set out in the report entitled 'evaluation of euratom - 50 years of european nuclear energy policy'.
the second is to ensure that financial resources are set aside to meet the requirements for decommissioning nuclear installations and waste disposal.
the third concerns the development of regional waste disposal facilities.
− this directive aims to ensure that member states establish a national regulatory and organisational framework and draw up appropriate national programmes for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, irrespective of the prospects for nuclear energy and non-energy applications.
the commission's position that member states are responsible for the safe management, including disposal, of spent fuel and radioactive waste produced by them, by developing their own programmes, is to be supported.
without definite rules, we risk not taking the decisions necessary for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste.
the document sets out the priorities of the european parliament, placing the need for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth at the heart of the 2012 budget, in line with the europe 2020 strategy.
− i voted in favour of this report because it clearly points out that the eu agricultural budget in the next financing period has to be maintained at least at the same level as the 2013 agricultural budget, considering that only with adequate financial resources will it be possible to meet the challenges of food security and environmental protection.
- i voted in favour of this report because i believe it takes due account of the role of agriculture in terms of economic and employment, sustainable development and the conservation of biodiversity.
combining food security with environmental sustainability in the medium and long term, with rural development, with a strong focus on the prudent management of financial resources and with the aspects linked to international trade patterns has required considerable skill but i think the rapporteur has done a very good job of it, and i congratulate him.
cross-compliance is also a good way of avoiding waste, although its practical application must be improved.
it also carries out this task from an environmental point of view, since the vitality of the sector and the quality of the production processes allow for an environmentally friendly management of the land.
a greener and more sustainable cap, which provides farmers with additional funding by recognising their role in protecting the environment and helping them to choose environmentally friendly farming techniques.
the report adopted by the plenary is fully in line with the guidelines already set out by the european commission and calls for a revision of the common agricultural policy for the period 2014-2020 that is able to meet the challenge of eco-sustainability, job creation and ensuring food quality and safety.
i also support this report because it raises the need to maintain the union's agricultural budget for the next financial period after 2013. adequate financial resources are essential to address the challenges of food security, environmental protection, climate change and the territorial balance of the union following enlargement to the east.
it is right that this report, which i fully support, should stress the value of agriculture, both from the food point of view and from the point of view of rural development and protection of the environment.
the smaller farms are often subject to heavy burdens in terms of compliance with health and environmental rules: the commission is therefore in favour of the request that these rules be adapted to the different conditions of a holding.
the cap can be prone to fraud and deception, and it is therefore also right that the really 'active' farmers be identified at european level in order to avoid an unacceptable waste of resources.
we need to keep the eu budget for agriculture unchanged until 2020 to ensure that farmers are guaranteed the incentives to provide safe food stocks, to protect the environment, to create new jobs and to ensure the competitiveness of the community's agricultural sector.
if the eu's agricultural policy aims to provide safe, high-quality food and contributes to environmental protection and renewable energy, it must be adequately funded to provide farmers with an incentive to use modern and environmentally friendly techniques.
financial markets are the most interconnected in the world and therefore the climate needs to be as harmonious as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am concerned about the possibility of allowing member states to ban the cultivation of gmos for reasons other than the protection of human health and the environment.
in this context, i believe that it is inappropriate to impose further restrictions on the only technology that simultaneously ensures increased production and environmental sustainability, but rather that it should be strengthened and improved.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the states must have a solid legal basis for deciding on the future of gmos and above all because it must be recognised that the environmental, as well as socioeconomic, agricultural impact can justify prohibitions or restrictions.
the amendments made by this text will therefore allow individual states to ban the cultivation of gmos because of the impact they may have on the agricultural system, taking into account biodiversity in particular, but also the resistance to pesticides, the invasiveness of certain crops and therefore the protection of our territories.
i would also have liked the commission to be more courageous in its approach to prudence, but there are positive aspects to be taken into account, in particular the fact that it introduces a new element, namely the possibility for member states to ban gmo cultivation on agri-environmental grounds, which strengthens their legal position in the face of possible appeals to the wto.
do we know what the long-term effects will be on the ecosystem?
mr president, this is a good report, a very important report for the balanced, harmonious and sustainable development of our communities.
mr president, i voted in favour of the wagner report because it effectively highlights the strengths and weaknesses of the european commission's approach to the relaunch of energy infrastructure: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financing of the common agricultural policy, which is the subject of a proposal from the commission, is based on the following three criteria: the need to determine the necessary infrastructure; the criteria for the selection of projects of european interest in the context of financing that attracts and stimulates private investment; the urgency of addressing the dangers of dependence on a single source in eastern europe, which, as has been demonstrated in recent years, can cause serious supply problems; and the opportunity to invest part of the one trillion euro over ten years envisaged by the european commission in reducing pollution, combating climate change and improving the quality of supply, for clean and secure energy.
the commission has also decided to grant a loan of eur 19.5 million to the energy sector, not by increasing the member states' contribution by providing additional funds (a solution which the member states have opposed), but by financing energy projects which are so late in their implementation that they require a new allocation of funds.
finally, particular importance should be given to the section on improving efficiency and sustainability, encouraging the retail sector to invest in innovative solutions for logistics and transport, energy efficiency, and packaging and waste disposal.
− we believe that the time has come to concentrate all our efforts on free movement and free establishment throughout europe, fair, balanced and transparent trade relations, in order to promote more sustainable consumption.
the sector should also invest further in innovative solutions for logistics and transport, energy efficiency, as well as packaging and waste disposal.
retail trade, a pillar of the european economy, accounting for 4.2% of the eu's gdp, should be enhanced by a european action plan based on fair and transparent trade relations and sustainable consumption.
it is necessary to create a legal basis enabling the eu to treat these surpluses as its own resources so that they can be used in the public-private partnership system to build the infrastructure considered as a priority in the telecommunications, transport and energy sectors.
the european parliament voted today to allow member states to decide for themselves whether to allow or ban gm crops on their territory, based on an examination of the social and environmental impacts that could result.
− the current european regulations on genetically modified food and feed set a very strict framework which, if properly applied, should allow for a high level of protection of human life and health, animal welfare, the environment and consumer interests, while ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market.
we believe that environmental assessment and monitoring should be strengthened and that the powers of states should be strengthened in the absence of relevant elements concerning the impact on their national territory.
the high level of protection of health and the environment can only be achieved to the extent that member states can effectively have all the necessary studies both on the recipient environment and on the conditions of the surveillance plans.
there may be legitimate environmental, socioeconomic and geographical-territorial reasons which can (and should) allow states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos.
- i appreciate the work done by mrs lepage and i believe it is essential that member states increase controls on gm products and the environmental impact that such production may have on the various national ecosystems.
i therefore call for greater coordination between the european and national institutions to identify the long-term environmental impacts of genetically modified crops, adjacent crops or on neighbouring land and, above all, the impact on human health through direct consumption and on animal health through the use of feed from products of these crops.
- i share the approach of the rapporteur, mrs lepage, who wants to give member states the power to ban the cultivation of gmos for reasons other than health and environmental reasons, which are the responsibility of efsa.
the decision to introduce certain foods or crops cannot be left solely to efsa, as only national authorities can properly assess the environmental and socio-economic impact of certain crops.
this is a clear signal from the european parliament to the council and the commission: the eu authorisation system must be maintained, but it must be recognised that the agricultural and environmental impact, as well as the socioeconomic impact, may justify bans or restrictions by individual states.
if this regulation becomes law, it would mean that eu member states could ban or restrict gm crops from their territory on agro-environmental grounds, such as resistance to pesticides, invasiveness of certain crops, or threat to biodiversity.
- i voted in favour of this document because i believe that it is appropriate to allow member states, in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity, to prohibit or restrict the cultivation of gmos on their territory, including for reasons other than adverse effects on health or the environment.
the final text gives member states greater discretion as to whether to introduce specific bans, while still ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment, and at the same time ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market.
- on the report on the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory, i voted in favour because i believe that it is necessary to leave individual member states the opportunity to prohibit the cultivation of gmos for reasons such as environmental protection.
− i voted in favour of this report because it calls on the commission to come forward, as soon as possible and before the end of 2011, with a proposals to achieve a 25% internal greenhouse gas reduction by 2020. one of the key points of the text is its emphasis in calling for more investments in renewable energy and energy infrastructures.
the report also stresses the need for the eu to use the appropriate diplomatic means in order to dynamise the international climate negotiations while maintaining the pressure on third countries to deliver their share of global ghg reductions in the future.
− the report proposes to adopt a new commission proposal that the eu could be able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by 2020 instead of the 20% originally proposed.
the latter has proved effective and well calibrated, so that the eu is already making a substantial contribution to reducing gas emissions.
the international actors who should be asked to be more committed and sincere in the fight against emissions are others, in particular the emerging countries of asia.
to impose further environmental constraints on them would be to place them in further difficulty.
the rejection of the final text will inevitably open up a new season of difficult negotiations which we can only overcome successfully if we can combine achievable environmental objectives with support for business productivity.
- parliament today rejected the increase in the emission reduction target to 30% by 2020. the report referred at various points to the alleged health, environmental and economic benefits of moving to a unilateral 30% reduction target, without sufficiently assessing the consequences of such a move for eu-wide development in the absence of an international agreement.
we must bear in mind that while the environmental effects of a 30% changeover would be insignificant overall, given that the european union produces only 10% of emissions from human activities, the effects of such a changeover on the competitiveness of the industrial system would be significant, with heavy economic impacts and significant employment spillovers.
i would remind you that the conclusions of the environment council of 21 june also stressed the importance of achieving the 20% energy efficiency target by 2020, while blocking any change in the commitments made to reduce greenhouse gases.
− the threat of climate change to humanity shows no sign of abating; the frequency and intensity of extreme environmental events have increased.
the failure of the international community to conclude a comprehensive and binding international climate treaty in copenhagen does not mean that countries are not taking action.
we believe that moving towards a domestic greenhouse gas reduction target that is compatible with the eu's climate goals can go hand in hand with a healthier economy, more green jobs and innovation, and would also bring greater benefits for european citizens through improved air quality.
we believe that there should be constant verification of the achievement of the ceilings set up so far: the european emissions trading system will be able to stimulate investment in green technologies and innovation.
we believe, however, that the commission's proposal for a 30% reduction in greenhouse gases by 2020 is too ambitious, too difficult to achieve and, above all, too costly for european smes.
- ladies and gentlemen, mr eickhout's report on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions has sparked debate in parliament because of the strategic importance of this request.
changing the greenhouse gas reduction rate from 20% to 30% changes the europe 2020 forecast.
this is certainly important for the fight against pollution and for the protection of the health of citizens, but to reduce emissions further in such a short time is also to put european companies at risk on the international market.
it is premature to accept the commission's assessment of a possible 25% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared with 1990 levels if the eu's target of increasing energy efficiency (20% increase by 2020) is reached.
in the context of international climate negotiations, recognition of this result at this stage does not seem appropriate because it undermines the unilateral commitment already made by the eu (-20% by 2020) in the eyes of the other parties.
- i am very pleased that this report on the european commission's communication 'analysis of the intervention hypotheses for a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions of more than 20% and assessment of the risk of carbon leakage' has been rejected.
- i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the analysis of the assumptions for intervention for a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions of more than 20% and the assessment of the risk of carbon leakage, as i consider it essential that a global agreement on this matter be encouraged.
the eu is one of the leading international actors in the field of the environment, and unilateral action to reduce co2 emissions would only risk weakening the competitiveness of european industries in the international market.
− we believe that the eu must do more to rapidly expand renewable energy, to increase its storage capacity and to ensure the supply of sources and the security of raw materials.
such a policy can only be sustainable if a link is established between regional policy objectives and european-level objectives in the field of innovation and research.
- i voted against the amendments which were intended to introduce a limitation of the eligibility periods for those regions which have not proved capable of achieving significant improvements in their economic, social and ecological situation, not because i believe in european-based assistance, but rather because the role of cohesion policy is that of a development policy aimed at improving the living conditions of the population and developing a balanced and sustainable growth of the communities.
the eu grants financial assistance only to countries that meet certain eligibility criteria, such as: a clearly defined national development policy and strategy, a stability-focused macroeconomic environment, a credible programme to improve public financial management, which is to enter into force or is being implemented.
of course, we must avoid the many mistakes and waste of money that have occurred in recent years - i would stress this, at the expense of the european taxpayers - and which have for the most part gone unpunished.
if we are to really help the people most in need, the eu's foreign and security policy must focus on promoting democracy and human rights and peace, which are fundamental requirements for sustainable development: all the necessary measures must therefore be taken to combat corruption in the countries receiving aid, including appropriate sanctions such as, for example, a proportional reduction in the allocation of future quotas.
- the report by mr wagner makes it clear that an integrated european energy network is essential to ensure both security of supply and diversification of sources.
i believe that in order to achieve these objectives, which are also recognised by the recent treaty of lisbon, it is right to give priority to energy infrastructure, which is also considered by the commission to be obsolete and poorly connected.
the difficult and crisis situation in bilateral relations between the energy-consuming and the energy-producing countries is further proof that it is necessary to think about tomorrow, about a genuine community energy policy.
− this year, as we celebrate the 60th anniversary of the european coal and steel community, i share the opportunity to launch a reflection on the european integrated energy network.
this objective is even more ambitious than in the past because it concerns the energy sector as a whole.
in my view, the climate and energy package is the effective synthesis of europe's energy priorities, on the basis of which to orient the european union's strategic measures.
the green paper 'a european strategy for sustainable, competitive and secure energy' is recognised as the most ambitious document on european energy policy to date, but it is only with the lisbon treaty that the primary objective of promoting the interconnection of energy networks is enshrined.
such infrastructure is essential to achieve ambitious objectives such as ensuring security of energy supply, security of energy production, price stability for consumers and the creation of a single energy market ensuring access to affordable energy sources for european businesses.
finally, i would draw the commission's attention to the need for strict commitments in the field of energy policy, since, because of the many national interests involved, there are tensions between the member states and an excessive fragmentation of the energy market.
− the sudden power cuts that have hit italy and many other member states in recent years demonstrate the need for the eu to clarify the coordinates of its energy policy and develop a coherent strategy, both within the union and with supplier and transit countries, to prevent further power cuts.
however, i would like to make it clear that the promotion of an efficient energy strategy must not lead to indiscriminate support for authoritarian regimes in central asia, nor must it weaken the eu's position vis-à-vis turkey, which, thanks to its role as a transit country, is acquiring increasingly strong conditional power vis-à-vis the eu itself.
- i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is a positive own-initiative text from parliament in response to the commission's communication 'energy infrastructure priorities for 2020 and beyond'.
i welcome the strategic approach of the document, which calls for systemic change, putting a proper, integrated and reliable energy network at the heart of the european political strategy, coordinating and optimising networks at continental level.
− the modernisation of europe's energy infrastructure and the consequent development of an integrated network is one of europe's priorities.
the european union currently imports more than 50% of its energy from non-eu countries, which have seen an average price increase of 15% in the past year.
this situation highlights the importance of diversifying energy supply routes and building an interconnected and flexible network, which overcomes the various national bottlenecks and allows efficient supply capacity in the different areas of europe.
finally, the financing procedures need to be simplified in order to attract more private investment, which has declined slightly in recent years and which is essential for open and transparent energy development.
- it is now necessary to reflect on the need to create an integrated energy network at european level, i.e.
it is essential to act on demand and on the renewed objectives of european energy policy, such as: sustainability and promotion of renewable energy, competitiveness and opening of markets, security of supply and diversification of sources.
finally, we believe that once a project has been declared to be of european interest, a single contact authority should be designated in the member state ('one-stop shop') which should act as an interface, ensuring understanding and communication between the promoters, authorities and citizens concerned and also coordinating between the 'one-stop shops' and the commission's dg energy.
the priorities in particular are, as also highlighted among the main objectives of the lisbon treaty, energy-related.
in the energy field, europe is making a major step forward in reducing greenhouse gases, achieving full energy efficiency and switching to renewable energy.
as a result, investment in energy policy has increased dramatically, so much so that energy is now a key issue for the future of all of us, which must be managed within the community.
- i voted in favour of this text because i believe that the objective of achieving a genuine internal energy market requires the resolute participation of the european institutions, together with all possible efforts by the companies in the sector.
energy infrastructure is often outdated and poorly connected, whereas it would be indispensable to achieve long-held objectives such as reducing carbon levels, ensuring security of supply and creating a single energy market that ensures affordable access to energy sources for businesses and citizens.
− i am in favour of the report on energy infrastructure priorities for 2020 and beyond, as it is essential to create an integrated and competitive internal market.
in addition, the ten-year network development plan should identify electricity and gas infrastructure projects, selecting those of european interest which should contribute to the completion of the internal market, promoting energy efficiency and renewable energy and improving security of supply.
smart grids should be one of the energy infrastructure priorities for achieving the eu's energy and climate objectives.
− the report on the priorities for energy infrastructure for 2020 welcomes the priority corridors identified by the commission agreeing on the need to optimise limited resources.
a clear eu public interest, its necessity must be demonstrated on the basis of the infrastructure hierarchy, it must also be in line with energy efficiency, climate and environmental objectives, it must be consistent with the eu's long-term energy policy (allowing for flexible and multifunctional application and avoiding bottleneck effects), it must offer good value for money and cost efficiency, and it must be technically sound.
it seems also urgent, as stressed by the report, to conduct an assessment of the social consequences and impact on people’s lives of liberalisation measures in sectors that are essential to social progress (transport, energy, water, postal services, telecommunications, etc.).
this change in approach makes it all the more important to foster the creation of an economic and social environment in which the needs of the development of one's identity and the response to the basic needs of daily living and the outlook on life are the driving force of public action.
the economic aspect, which is important in terms of budgetary compatibility and medium- and long-term sustainability, plays an important role, but it is still subordinated to the main objective of the development of the human person and the quality of life, including in its family, social, work and institutional dimensions.
− high-quality universal services such as health, education and childcare and essential network services such as transport, energy and telecommunications can ensure a healthy, active, cohesive and inclusive society.
− services of general interest cover a wide range of activities, ranging from large network enterprises such as energy, telecommunications, transport, audiovisual and postal services, to education, water supply, waste management, social and health services.
they are key to the eu's sustainable development in terms of higher levels of employment, social inclusion, economic growth and environmental quality.
the private sector, and in particular smes, should be more actively involved in the development support process, as they are key players in sustainable development and in achieving the objectives set.
supporting this report today, at a time like the present, when the debate on the next mff is taking place, means emphatically reiterating the need for a common strategy which guarantees, in financial terms, territorial, environmental and human development.
i believe that the latter is a vital factor in the sustainable development of the many smes in europe.
it should be environmentally sustainable, respect biodiversity and prevent the worrying degradation of fertile land.
the eu should therefore promote agro-ecological and low-input practices.
access to basic social services, especially health and education, is crucial to facilitating sustainable growth, and these should account for at least 20% of total eu assistance.
the document allows us to meet the demands made by the european parliament in the report by mr garriga polledo on a number of important issues such as research, innovation, development, small and mediumsized enterprises, renewable energy and own resources.
i believe that this cannot be considered acceptable by parliament and i therefore believe that it will be necessary to work in the next negotiations to reach an agreement with the other institutions, an agreement which is satisfactory and which allows europe to emerge from the crisis and to achieve the objective of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, as required by the europe 2020 strategy.
salvador garriga polledo said that the proposal was born in a climate of cooperation.
let us preserve the climate of cooperation, aiming at an agreement that could be equal to financial peace for europe for seven years.
the agenda includes the recommendation for the second reading of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the provision of food information to consumers, amending regulations (ec) no 1924/2006 and (ec) no 1925/2006 and repealing directives 87/250/eec, 90/496/eec, 1999/10/ec, 2000/13/ec, 2002/67/ec, 2008/5/ec and regulation (ec) no 608/2004 [17602/1/2010 - c7-0060/2011 - 2008/0028 ((cod)) ] (rapporteur: renate sommer) (a7-0177/2011).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the wine sector is not left to the detriment of the environment.
it is also important to understand the link between the presence of skills and the role of women at the governance levels of a company with a different approach in the management of processes, the enhancement of human resources, anti-discrimination rules and sustainable productivity that they often ensure.
i am also glad that you have paid particular attention in your report to the issues of competitiveness and convergence, and sustainable growth and jobs.
it is about the community method; it is about economic stability, the foundations of sustainable growth and improving employment; and it is about european coordination and solidarity.
it is necessary to support and implement investments in the technology sector in order to achieve the ambitious goals of the digital agenda and the targets set by the europe 2020 strategy for sustainable and inclusive growth, including through the active involvement of the private sector, which is a key part of this strategy.
the provision of high-speed broadband networks at european level is important to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, in order to stimulate smart and sustainable economic growth, improve the employment situation, strengthen europe's competitiveness, foster scientific research and innovation and thus enable all regions, cities, municipalities and all segments of society to benefit from digital technology and to have the opportunity to take advantage of new digital technologies for public services.
− i am in favour of this report on broadband in europe, which sets the objective of ensuring that all europeans have 100% basic broadband coverage by 2013. the provision of fast broadband networks at european level is of key importance for achieving the objectives of strategy 2020 in order to stimulate smart, sustainable, inclusive and territorial cohesion growth, improving the employment situation and enhancing competitiveness in europe.
the energy content and the percentages of the various ingredients must now be indicated, and the country of origin labelling has been extended to include more products than under the previous directive.
the implementation of the legislation we voted on today is of two kinds: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
therefore, about a year ago, i supported the need for an extension of the mandate of the cris special committee, which was then crucial for the development of recommendations for a sustainable eu growth model.
in my view, these recommendations should be taken into account by the special committee on the political challenges and budgetary resources for a sustainable european union after 2013. furthermore, i believe that further work is needed to develop a functioning crisis management mechanism at union level and to define a political strategy for the future that is linked to the reform of european economic governance and the eu 2020 strategy.
this increase must be achieved through the eu's own resources, made available by financial income support, fines, vat, but above all by the acquisition of new capital on the market, through instruments such as project bonds, which will play an important role in the implementation of strategic infrastructure in the transport, energy and telecommunications sectors.
in particular, the extension of the mandate of the special committee has been necessary to develop new recommendations for a european model of sustainable growth, which complement its previous calls already adopted by the european parliament; to develop mechanisms and coordinated policies to exit the sovereign debt crisis in the member states and prevent its recurrence, addressing its root causes while promoting strong and sustainable growth and employment, and to develop close cooperation with national parliaments.
the challenge now is to continue along the path already traced, focusing on public investment and appropriate fiscal policies, developing a new proposal for sustainable growth and developing coordinated mechanisms to exit the public debt crisis in the member states, preventing it from recurring in the future.
the climate in lebanon has also deteriorated considerably, and this is affecting the stability of the area.
it is of absolutely core importance to having the sort of communities that are sustainable and can be developed for the future.
more than anything else, for the palestinian people, the issue that is going to be of enormous significance in the coming weeks and months is that of getting a country that is sustainable – a state that is theirs.
in the present climate of both institutional fatigue and economic austerity, any referendum would be risky, and the national parliamentary ratification processes cannot be taken for granted either.
the text has some positive aspects, but the desire to include the candidate countries in the projects leads me to abstain, fearing a waste of money from european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is clear that reducing the consumption of raw materials has many benefits, first and foremost from the environmental point of view: more recovery, less waste and less invasive nature.
finally, commissioner, i would ask you to press forward with this initiative by mr buzek, the president of parliament, to create a single energy market, because only then can we have certainty of supply and certainty of costs, both for businesses and for citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of continued price volatility and the risk of possible shortages in the supply of raw materials, it is important that the european union proposes a strong and effective strategy to ensure a more sustainable use and better supply of these precious natural resources.
i would like to stress that waste electrical and electronic equipment often contains a veritable treasure trove of metallic treasures which should be made accessible through recycling.
the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 13 september, at 11.30 a.m.
the agenda includes the report by vicky ford, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on tackling the security challenges of offshore activities in the hydrocarbon sector (2011/2072(ini)) (a7-0290/2011).
- madam president, following the deepwater horizon accident in the gulf of mexico, the commission has presented an action plan to maintain and ensure a higher level of safety and environmental protection in offshore oil and gas operations.
offshore oil and gas production has been and will be an important source of energy for europe, and is a major industrial structure whose safety standards are widely recognised as an example of excellence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, about half of the industrial projects with high levels of carbon dioxide emissions in developing countries receive some form of support from export credit agencies.
these are usually projects with high environmental and social risks.
this situation is in open contradiction with our environmental policy.
the obligation to assess risk is a first step forward, but even clearer rules are needed to direct these forms of financial support towards the carbon reduction target we have set ourselves.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote has certainly led to an improvement in the safety and inspection of offshore oil and gas activities, in order to avoid a repetition of accidents such as the one that occurred in 2010 on the gulf of mexico oil platform, which claimed the lives of 11 people and caused serious environmental damage.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to recognize the capacity of women in the workplace and to provide them with special assistance through valid, concrete instruments which encourage their participation and ensure that they can work on equal terms in an employment environment in which there is no room for gender discrimination.
only in this way can a better and clearer legislative environment for businesses be created.
i therefore voted in favour of the proposal to repeal these acts, so that the process of simplifying and clarifying the rules of the vast body of community legislation can continue and the european regulatory environment can respond more and more to the criterion of clarity.
our attention must now be focused on the sustainable management of tropical forests and the restoration of degraded forest areas, involving the people and the states also through awareness and education campaigns.
i therefore hope that this agricultural partnership can continue along the path of gradually improving the conditions and arrangements for these bilateral trade relations, in order to safeguard the value of sustainable rural development.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this text because i believe it lays the foundations for a good cooperation which can address the shortcomings in the management and conservation of non-highly migratory species and the protection of biodiversity on the high seas in the south pacific.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, fch (fuel and hydrogen cell) technologies represent long-term energy options that can be used in various sectors of the economy and offer a wide range of benefits in terms of energy security, transport, the environment and resource efficiency.
they play a key role in achieving the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by more than 85% by 2050. they are used in various aspects of daily life: from batteries in laptops and mobile phones to transport, where it is already a viable alternative to conventional vehicles with internal combustion engines.
- ladies and gentlemen, research and technological development are at the heart of the european objective of a constant and substantial reduction in carbon emissions.
the aim of reducing emissions of polluting gases is to use alternative energy sources, and the report by mr reul, which amends regulation 521/2008 and which i voted in favour of, is precisely to encourage the use of fuel cells and hydrogen.
these technologies can be the long-term solution for alternative energy production that reduces gas emissions.
it's a company that's only been in operation for two years and it's aimed at being able to produce clean, low-cost energy.
i believe that a european raw materials strategy can pursue important objectives such as secure and competitively priced supplies for europe, a more sustainable use of existing resources and economic opportunity for european businesses.
a raw materials strategy can also be an economic opportunity for europe, provided it does not place an additional burden on businesses over existing environmental legislation.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the bütikofer report on an effective raw materials strategy in europe because it has long been expected that the framework would focus on access to strategic raw materials such as rare earths, as well as on the issues of resource efficiency, recycling and the substitution of certain materials through efficient waste management.
in an era such as the present, in which environmental risks and problems are real and widely shared concerns of society, it is important first of all to encourage the recycling and reuse of materials, especially the rarest materials, the availability of which may prove too limited to allow indiscriminate use, as well as the safeguarding and respect of natural habitats and biodiversity.
i would pay particular attention to the relationship between the exploitation of raw materials and the environment.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the need to ensure a strong industrial base in the eu is a priority for economic development which requires a careful assessment of the supply of raw materials, which will allow the achievement of a competitive and low-carbon economy.
i therefore supported this resolution because the eu needs sustainable and fair supplies in its relations with third countries, but it must also develop a well-balanced strategy for innovation and ambitious industrial research and an effective trade and own resources policy.
to this end, a significant role must be played by the adoption of good raw material management practices that can help to increase energy-efficient recycling, and the use of green technologies that i believe are essential for competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply in the medium and long term.
at the heart of this approach must be an industrial innovation strategy based on resource efficiency and recycling, which are the only effective measures to adequately address the triple challenge of ensuring future competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a step in the right direction, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
i agree with the establishment of institutionalised coordination in the black sea, a closed basin of considerable economic, social and political importance for the countries bordering it, in order to ensure the economic development of the coastal areas and to safeguard and protect the ecological balance and fishery resources of the basin.
in addition, cooperation in the fisheries sector between the countries of the black sea region will be a major step forward for the preservation of the ecosystem.
the eu will thus affirm its commitment to the region through the development of sustainable fisheries, creating positive spillovers for the whole black sea
in writing.
institutional coordination can guarantee tangible results in protecting the livelihoods of fishermen, ensuring the economic development of coastal areas and protecting the ecological balance and fishery resources of the basin.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, internal supplies of hydrocarbons make a significant contribution to the eu's energy consumption and energy security: over 90% of oil and 60% of gas is produced by offshore operations.
although the existing legislative framework provides a strong basis for ensuring human and environmental safety, the report considers that there is still a wide margin for developing an approach that ensures an adequate level of environmental protection throughout europe, so as to achieve the highest possible level of safety and environmental protection standards in all offshore oil and gas activity areas.
i find the focus on responsibility in the event of an environmental disaster particularly interesting: the polluter pays principle places responsibility on industry, although the state is also called upon to monitor to ensure general safety and coordination of activities in the event of a disaster.
trying to make offshore activities safer against unpredictable natural phenomena is the least we can do to avoid environmental disasters.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, internal supplies of hydrocarbons make a significant contribution to the energy consumption and energy security of the european union.
the resolution adopted today proposes measures to protect the environment from all possible pollution risks.
− the 2010 environmental disaster in the gulf of mexico in the us led to a reassessment of the existing safety regulations for offshore oil and gas production in the eu as well.
energy consumption continues to rise rapidly, while traditional sources of energy are being depleted, requiring deeper and riskier drilling and more advanced technologies.
how can oil and gas activities be regulated without harming the environment or the economy?
oil and gas projects submitted shall be assessed individually, taking into account their different environmental and technical conditions.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the disaster in mexico last year, which caused serious environmental damage, led the european union to revise the legislation on oil extraction.
the european parliament, in the text presented by mrs ford, is committed to ensuring greater control over the rules in force and to highlighting the responsibilities of producers in the event of ecological disasters.
the so-called galvin report has finally been published, unfortunately without names; i believe that transparency is one of the fundamental pillars of democracy in the fight against abuse of power, against waste and corruption and in bringing citizens closer to the institutions.
i shall simply stress a few aspects which i consider particularly important: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful organisms.
on the subject of the environment, which is a recurring theme in our committee as a subject of concern from citizens, we are discussing a report to ask for in this very house, we would like to bring it to parliament, a report to ask the commission to intervene taking into account the complaints made by citizens of the european union.
it is a strategic sector, covering many products, from computers to all high-tech products and renewable energy sources, so it is also important for our action against climate change, in favour of the green economy that commissioner andor spoke about earlier and for which the commission is strongly committed, also because it creates jobs and produces welfare and at this moment i believe it is very important that we all commit ourselves to growth by also focusing on these highly innovative sectors.
that responsibility will be a key concept vis-à-vis the employees of the firm and vis-à-vis the social and natural environment of an enterprise.
the coordination at european, national and regional level of support measures for new or existing smes, as well as for the external dimension of the union, based on the principles of complementarity, efficiency and sustainability, will be an integral part of the commission's strategy.
we are moving towards a world where the big emerging players today are able to be both bank and workshop, countries that will be called upon to face the challenges, including social and environmental, that this world will deliver to them, which will not be indifferent to us.
i think we are here today discussing and reasoning to really try to achieve a strong european climate policy, capable of safeguarding economic development and the well-being of european citizens.
international climate policies - as has been mentioned so far - have focused mainly on reducing co2 emissions, but it is important that this proposal highlights how we must also tackle the fight against other anthropogenic emissions that cause the formation of ground-level ozone, which affects climate change.
a lot has been said and i think it's worth remembering: we are now able to do this at a very reasonable cost, we have the technology available, and although there is no doubt that co2 emissions are the main factor, and although there is no doubt that the other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere are present in a much smaller percentage, there is no doubt that their potential is very high and that therefore we could really achieve significant and very important results in a few years, in a few industries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the gas and energy market is one of the instruments of economic growth and employment, which is essential to restore the union's competitiveness and to help it overcome the crisis quickly.
the recent introduction of acer allows market transactions to be monitored, and national and european registers for operators in the sector allow transactions in wholesale energy products to be recorded, thus promoting transparency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is the task of public authorities to legislate in the interests of citizens in order to achieve many objectives: ensuring a fair and competitive market, protecting health, providing safety, stimulating innovation and protecting the environment.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report under discussion today is of particular importance because it concerns the establishment of a legal framework of union scope which establishes new rules for the prevention of abusive practices such as the use of inside information and market manipulation in the gas and electricity energy sector.
i share the objective of strengthening the regulatory framework governing the market for energy products in europe, with a view to moving towards regulatory harmonisation aimed at achieving the internal energy market.
while i believe that both the structure of the proposal for a regulation and the mechanisms suggested for its application are valid, i agree with the rapporteur that it is appropriate to provide the agency for the cooperation of national energy regulators with the appropriate financial and human resources to enable it to open contact points close to the main trading places.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this proposal on the prevention of abuse and manipulation of the energy market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the chatzimarkakis report on the integrity and transparency of the energy market because i believe that these are fundamental principles in any liberal economy which wishes to take due account of the interests of operators.
markets are increasingly interconnected and abuses in one member state could have an impact on wholesale energy and gas prices across national borders.
i am confident that the monitoring by the agency for cooperation between national energy regulators, national energy and financial supervisory authorities and competition authorities will prove to be an appropriate and effective measure in combating abuses and infringements and that the sanctions to be defined by the member states will be appropriate.
the reference to the prohibition of abuse in the wholesale markets for electricity and related products, for example, shows how important it is to organise ourselves and to go in the direction we have set ourselves when we chose our policies in the energy sector.
for this reason i also welcomed the acceptance of the priorities identified by the commission and the reference to the introduction of mechanisms allowing access to information received on transactions in wholesale energy markets by other competent authorities as i believe that they are crucial to optimising the market.
- ladies and gentlemen, 'integrity and transparency of the energy market': the title of the proposal for a regulation already shows its content, a regulation which synthesises and unifies all existing legislation concerning trade in energy raw materials in any existing market.
i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation in the hope that speculation in energy on the stock markets and the lack of transparency in energy trading could be avoided by the entry into force of specific rules contained in the regulation in question.
we have today adopted new rules to prevent abuse in the wholesale energy market and thus protect final consumers.
the european wholesale energy market will be monitored by an independent agency to enable national governments to prevent or punish behaviour which is contrary to free competition.
energy must remain within everyone's reach.
europe needs more transparency in the energy market, which must be protected from abuse: that is the purpose of this regulation.
i therefore welcome these new measures which ensure transparency and prevent abuse in the wholesale energy market by ensuring fair prices and free competition.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this text because i believe it is the right way forward to establish a legal framework for the whole of the european union which will prevent abuse and market manipulation in the energy sector, especially in the gas and electricity sectors.
a sector-specific approach is needed to prevent unfair practices in wholesale energy markets from manipulating price levels, making them highly volatile and undermining the confidence of potential investors in energy infrastructure projects.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am in favour of the regulation establishing a legal framework at european union level for the prevention of abuse and manipulation of the energy market.
it is necessary to ensure that prices set on wholesale energy markets reflect a fair and competitive interaction between supply and demand and that it is not possible to profit from market abuse, which often affects both wholesale electricity and gas prices across national borders and retail prices for consumers and micro-enterprises.
the need to ensure proper monitoring and adequate transparency of energy markets is one of the objectives alongside which the idea shared by president buzek of creating a single energy market, aimed at sanctioning countries which do not comply with the rules of transparency and which present themselves as unfair competitors, should be developed and put into practice.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the integrity and transparency of wholesale energy markets.
this is a very sensitive issue, since wholesale prices also determine the cost of energy for households and our businesses.
citizens, businesses and authorities need to have confidence in the transparency of wholesale energy markets.
the aim is to strengthen the regulatory framework governing the market in energy products in europe with a view to regulatory harmonisation aimed at achieving the internal energy market.
businesses in particular are relying on this new regulation in the hope that they will be able to respond more flexibly to changing market conditions by supporting the new generation and infrastructure investments needed to transform europe's energy supply.
if it fails, it risks discouraging investment, increasing the volatility of energy prices.
in my country, italy, for example, the liberalisation of the energy market is moving at two speeds: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market for electricity is open to competition.
i therefore believe that effective coordination between the national regulatory authorities and the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators should be ensured.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to define the common energy market in order to ensure greater transparency, to avoid abuses of dominant positions and, consequently, to prevent speculation which is harmful to european markets: this is what is called for in the chatzimarkakis report on the integrity and transparency of the energy market, which i have supported.
the protection of the environment and the defence of citizens' rights were the main concerns of the committee on petitions in 2010. i am disappointed that some member states have been negligent in applying and enforcing european environmental legislation and i ask the commission to monitor compliance and implementation of this legislation more vigorously at all stages of the procedure and not just after the adoption of a final decision.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have expressed my approval of mr meyer's text on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2010. although slightly down on 2009, the peti committee collected petitions from european citizens who exercised their right to petition on topics of primary importance such as justice, the environment, the internal market, fundamental rights.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this text because it shows that european and international climate policies have focused mainly on reducing co2 emissions, but that a comprehensive european climate policy is needed which takes account of all sources of warming and all options for mitigating them.
pollution is global and the commitment to reduce emissions cannot and must not be european only: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i think the first objective is to resume as soon as possible cooperation with libya on these big issues - border management, migration flows, energy supply and the fight against terrorism - but another point that is equally important is support for the new libyan leadership in organising free elections as the first act of a long process that can lead, i hope, one day to building a genuinely democratic and stable state.
in fact, in the race to a new libya, it is not difficult to see the economic and energy interests, but the project for the democratic construction of libya is not as clear, and this is where we need to work very hard.
i associate myself with the call by several colleagues for a ban on european companies which invest in energy and other sectors in syria.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
a chance of redemption for young people, which is achieved mainly through targeted initiatives, appropriate european funds which really support an economic process which must be truly growing and sustainable for a truly moderate islamic country.
it is also important to stress that, in order to guarantee food security, the eu and horn of africa governments must link emergency assistance with a comprehensive sustainable programme focused on the agricultural sector.
i am also pleased that we both support an approach that places eu funding close to societal challenges and therefore close to the eu’s ambitious policy objectives in areas such as climate change, health, energy and security.
we have a population growth prospect and a strong prospect, 70 percent more, will be the demand for food by 2050. we must also answer this question through research which must also be able to meet the growing demand for a clean environment.
so we have to combine increased production with environmental protection, renewable energy and reducing co2 emissions.
we need to work on environmental sustainability and accessibility of accommodation facilities and destinations, so that many millions of possible and potential tourists with disabilities can also be full-fledged tourists.
i am glad to be able to share the report when it proposes new initiatives and concrete actions of great interest, which i will certainly take into account in implementing the 21 actions of the action plan, which aim precisely at developing a coherent union policy for high-quality, modern, competitive and at the same time sustainable tourism.
we want to ensure a constant quality of the european tourist product and intensify efforts to promote europe as a set of sustainable and high-quality destinations and, as the rapporteur mentioned in his speech, in the context of social tourism we must ensure the future implementation of the calypso preparatory action by creating an internet-based supply and demand platform as a tool to facilitate transnational tourist exchanges.
as regards sustainability, it is closely linked to competitiveness in this important sector, because the quality of tourist destinations is strongly influenced by the natural and cultural environment and their integration into the local community.
our efforts are therefore also aimed at ensuring sustainable development for tourism.
in this connection, i intend to propose a european charter for responsible tourism, which will establish at european level the commitment of public administrations, tourist companies and all those interested in promoting tourism activities in europe which meet a set of sustainable and socially, economically, environmentally and culturally responsible principles.
i was in madrid last week to conclude the first ethical tourism day and in my speech i emphasized the commitment to combat the exploitation of women and children, but also to protect the environment, and therefore to use tourism as a tool in our strategy to combat climate change.
i thank you once again for your attention and i can assure parliament once again of my commitment to ensuring that tourism can, at this delicate stage, be a key factor in growth and above all a means of protecting the environment and creating new jobs, especially for younger workers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the challenge for the coming years is to ensure that europe, as has been said, maintains its position as the world's leading tourist destination and, at the same time, is able to exploit all its territorial assets, both in terms of environmental protection and competitiveness.
firstly, i would like to point out that the text we are proposing to the house today sets out a comprehensive governance approach based on the europe 2020 strategy and develops a set of proposals to achieve growth that is smart, sustainable and inclusive in all respects.
ladies and gentlemen, the tourism sector is also characterized by its environmentally and socially sustainable growth, which supports small and mediumsized tourism enterprises for which we have provided the business incubator tool for innovation in order to provide knowledge tools that allow them to implement, and the tourist to have, better travel solutions.
i fully share the strong call for ecotourism, tourism must also be a means of enhancing europe's environment, of enhancing its natural heritage, whether coastal or mountainous, and as has been stressed, i am also fascinated by the idea of enhancing cycling tourism, which is a sector that is gaining ground.
i can assure all members that it will be my firm commitment to continue to work so that there is an ever-increasing strength for tourism policy, so that it can truly become a key sector for growth, competitiveness, employment and environmental protection in our european union.
tourism has enormous potential for achieving some of the european union's important objectives, such as sustainable development, economic growth, employment and socioeconomic cohesion.
it is not a luxury, but simply to offer the possibility to those who are called to work and live abroad in a different cultural environment to have access to education in their mother tongue for their children.
i believe that this particular education system allows pupils to study in a multicultural and multilingual environment while retaining their mother tongue.
they matter in floods, they matter in being ready for forest fires, they matter in the ecological system for cities and rural areas.
member states in current fiscal conditions and the budgetary environment want to be sure that we will be mindful of cost efficiency.
strengthening convergence, consolidation and the union's overall competitiveness, based on a cooperative model, are elements of the response to economic recovery and a development model based on sustainable growth and increased employment creation.
i therefore stress the need to reorganise existing instruments and programmes and to create new ones, so as to make possible a strategy of sustainable and inclusive growth, bearing in mind the objectives of stability, economic convergence and employment.
this approach should be encouraged and rewarded, since the sector in question, with its implications in terms of the percentage of gdp produced, employment and new opportunities for small and mediumsized enterprises, and attention to the protection and enhancement of the environment, is in a position to develop and thus to meet the main challenges of the present.
thirdly: the consistency between energy supply and energy policies.
we cannot, in order to produce new energy, prevent the production of food for the peoples of the world.
we cannot continue to plan our trade strategy on the assumption that the status quo will continue in the current international trade environment.
for tuna in particular, no more than 0,2% of the catches of the fish stocks concerned are taken and the impact of tuna fishing opportunities on sustainability is therefore minimal.
mr president, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the financing of research and innovation in the european union, as these are crucial sectors which are essential for sustainable development and for the growth of our european economy.
− research and innovation, as has been repeatedly stated, are essential tools for consolidating a strategy of sustainable and inclusive growth.
research and innovation are essential tools for consolidating a strategy for sustainable and inclusive growth.
they are the only means of enabling the children of european officials to receive education in their own language and to learn about the other languages and cultures of the union in a multilingual and multicultural environment.
the increasing pace of climate change and the depletion of natural resources are increasingly affecting different countries and regions of the world, and the european union is certainly not exempt from the many risks that arise from this.
− climate change in recent years has led to an exponential increase in disasters.
europe as the world's number one destination is the goal we must set ourselves and all this would be possible through a coordinated approach, through a framework of action that develops modern, quality, sustainable and accessible tourism.
the continent, which is home to the majority of unesco protected sites and whose strength is based on its diversity and biodiversity, needs a new joint effort to achieve an important objective that would give breathing space in the coming years to a sector that needs to be renewed in line with the needs of the new world market.
this sector, in addition to promoting the integration and development of the less developed regions, is able to reconcile growth, sustainable and ethical development in eu countries.
i welcome the call for support for small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the main players in this sector, and also the need to develop eco-sustainable tourism, which is committed to protecting the environment.
the aim is to foster a coordinated approach to tourism-related initiatives within the eu and to define a new framework for action to increase its competitiveness and capacity for sustainable growth.
the 21 priorities which make up the programme to be implemented are based on four essential pillars: stimulate the competitiveness of the sector, promote the development of sustainable, but at the same time responsible and quality tourism, consolidate the image and visibility of europe as a whole as a top-class tourist destination and maximise the potential of the european union's financial instruments for tourism development.
the tourism sector has been recognised as a specific eu competence following the lisbon treaty, thus ensuring greater coordination at european level in order to pursue common objectives aimed at improving the quality of services, contributing to sustainable development and promoting accessibility for people with disabilities not only in relation to means of transport, but also to accommodation, catering and tourism services themselves.
− to promote a coordinated approach to tourism-related initiatives within the european union and to develop a vision of quality, sustainable, year-round and accessible tourism: the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
− this report is important because i value its aim to find a comprehensive and transparent evaluation of the full range of options available to reduce the impacts of floods and meet water and energy needs.
in this field priority should be given to ecosystem-based solutions and to making existing systems more effective and sustainable.
i also would like to stress that any planning of dams should be evaluated according to five values: equity, efficiency, participatory decision-making, sustainability and accountability.
the management of freshwater requires special attention: if we also consider climate change, it is a fundamental challenge for the whole world.
a balanced investment is needed to improve water collection and storage methods, to increase the effective and sustainable use of water resources and to reduce both the effects of flooding and the adverse effects of drought.
that is why i voted in favour of this report, although i believe that further work is needed to achieve the objective of limiting climate change.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thought i could support mr deva's text, which deals specifically with the problems of global warming and the consequent need to invest in dam infrastructure for developing countries.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very good one.
there is no doubt that dams bring about immediate changes in the ecosystem and sometimes damage to existing homes and structures, but we must consider that they also bring about economic and social well-being linked to the possible uses, in addition to the production of clean energy.
the eu, like the member states, should give the fight against poverty the highest priority so that its eradication can be achieved and made a sustainable goal.
the eu must make its efforts to promote respect for human rights in relation to food, water and energy more effective, giving them the appropriate weight in the eu's energy policy strategy, sustainable development strategy and future development cooperation.
as we all know, the growing threat of food speculation, climate change, global land acquisitions, loss of biodiversity and pressures on water have contributed to further affect the state of food security in the world.
a sustainable development policy could only be based on a cooperation approach.
its relationship to the sustainability of primary sector production is expressed in several ways.
both in environmental terms, through the use of eco-friendly techniques and products and through the non-speculative exploitation and management of the immense natural genetic heritage that exists, especially in developing countries.
both in economic terms, by exploiting the competitive advantages between the different areas and countries, which would also allow developing countries to be part of a fair and global growth, and on the other hand by promoting the relationship with the territories, favouring zero-kilometre products where the costs and energy pollution linked to transport and the quality and tradition of the products can be better appreciated.
the eu's role in this difficult process is to create and dialogue in order to launch an education and training project that can create professionalism, investment opportunities and enable young people to pursue agronomic studies that can produce better and in a specialised and sustainable way, thus curbing rural exodus and reducing poverty.
new challenges, including the growing threat of food speculation, climate change, global land acquisitions, biofuels, biodiversity loss, land degradation and pressures on water resources have contributed to further undermining the food security situation in the world.
i am particularly pleased that the point which was particularly close to my heart, namely energy self-sufficiency, has been taken up in its entirety in paragraph 22. i think it is important to stress that part of the aid for the pvs must contribute to the construction of renewable energy plants and to good water management, all in the context of aid for the acquisition of know-how with the aim of the country's independence from external influences.
self-sufficiency, whether in energy or food production, must be integrated into the policy of developing countries aiming to improve their food security, especially through the implementation of food strategies aimed at alleviating poverty and eventually making aid itself superfluous.
- mr president, the challenge of the europe 2020 strategy is to boost the growth of our economies in a smart, sustainable and inclusive way through the opening up of trade and investment.
with regard to external policy, the parliament must support the commission in its goal to promote sustainable development, free and fair trade, international labour standards and decent work.
it is also important to protect (through international standardisation) consumers, the environment, health and safety standards for products and intellectual property rights.
the importance of relations with the united states for the development of efficient, low-carbon technologies and for dialogue on legislative and regulatory issues was emphasised.
foreign direct investment is vital for the european economy, given the importance of innovation for strong and sustainable growth, through the creation of european project bonds (project bonds).
everybody refers to the economic climate that underpins those discussions.
to close, i just want to say that, concerning economic and monetary union, schengen, foreign and security policy, the single market, energy and all the issues that president barroso raised today, you can count on an approach by the presidency which will include more europe, not less europe; more support for the community method rather than intergovernmentalism; and finally, support for ever-closer union and not for ever-looser union.
this is in order to achieve macroeconomic stability and the sustainability of public finances, allowing for sustainable growth in output and employment.
it is important, however, that this be done in a sustainable and forward-looking way.
i welcome the proposal further because, following the principles of logic and consistency in ensuring an optimized and wasteless allocation of community funds, the new resources come from the under-utilized appropriations for the line 'energy projects to support economic recovery'.
the stability and growth pact is based on the objective of sound public finances as a means of strengthening the conditions for price stability, strong and sustainable growth and employment.
furthermore, the improved economic governance framework needs to be based on a number of interlinked and coherent policies for sustainable growth and employment, in particular a union strategy for growth and jobs that focuses on the development and strengthening of the internal market.
− improving the economic governance framework should be based on a coherent and interlinked set of policies for sustainable growth and employment, based on a sound union strategy for growth and employment.
− national budgets are at the heart of the commission's control and are the starting point for sound and sustainable financial policies.
and to avoid waste of time and regulatory differences, i am glad that the transposition of the directive at national level does not necessarily require new laws, but will be sufficient administrative acts.
equity on an international global scale which ensures the right of developing countries to their development; intergenerational equity that does not make those who come after us pay the price of our decisions; this is a fairness that becomes a genuine solidarity and a vehicle for new sustainable development.
we must reject the old conception of three independent pillars - economic, social and environmental - and instead recognise the interdependent nature of these elements because they are indivisible.
setting the conditions for truly sustainable development requires not only that we develop new standards, such as the project beyond gross domestic product, but also that we ensure the active involvement of all parties at all levels of governance.
the assessment of the impact that biofuel production may have on food supply and biodiversity, with a focus on the overall assessment of the technological impact on the environment and societies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the un conference on sustainable development is the continuation of previous world summits and also takes up the contents of the un millennium summit held in 2000 and, in this case, the millennium development goals.
i believe that the sustainable economy represents an opportunity for european businesses to grow, provided they set themselves realistic and achievable targets, avoiding unjustified increases in production costs that would expose them to competition from countries not subject to the same constraints.
it is essential that the european union can put in place an effective international strategy to ensure that european environmental legislation, which is currently among the strictest in the world, is also adopted by third countries through comparable and binding commitments.
to this end, we believe that the main lever on which a stronger strategic approach should be insisted is the strengthening of international partnerships for the promotion and diffusion of sustainable and low-impact technologies in emerging and developing countries.
that is why we will try to come up with tangible proposals for specific goals when it comes to water, energy, the oceans, sustainable agriculture and forestry.
when the millennium development goals were set, it was in a world that did not speak too much of environmental goals and not too much of energy goals and that is why we need to get that into the rio+20.
i agree with mr gerbrandy who spoke about the issue of whether to be sustainable or not.
the world is at a very important crossroads and i think the world would be poorer if we were not investing our energy and our policies in trying to use influence here.
that is what we should do, and i look forward very much to working with mr leinen and the rest of the parliament to get a strong and united eu position on our way to rio – hopefully to achieve not just a lot of words and fine declarations, but things and recommendations that can lead to immediate action moving the world into a more sustainable place.
we do not have all the technology available to us to say with certainty that we are only, for example, renewable energy.
but if the technology of energy storage develops - let's just say that - maybe this beautiful, perfect world will be possible in a few dozen years - 20, 30, 40 years.
listening to mr florenz, and listening to mr jo leinen, i am confident that the european parliament, together with the council and the european commission, will provide that leadership and that we will be able to see the sustainability issues as real progress at this important conference in rio.
the european union's objectives in the fight against climate change have led to the implementation of community policies and measures that are very challenging for european industry.
the co2 emissions reduction target is currently a unilateral commitment that puts much of the european industrial system and energy-intensive industries in particular at serious risk of carbon leakage.
the objectives of reducing emissions, which are shared in their purpose, must, however, be pursued in a realistic and pragmatic way.
directive 2003/87/ec as amended in 2009 provides for an obligation for thermal power generating companies to purchase allowances for all their co2 emissions from 2013 onwards, with the consequence of passing on the higher costs to the price of electricity and thus a significant increase in production costs.
indirect emissions, as compared with direct emissions, do not benefit from a compensation system which avoids unequal treatment between industries in the same sector with different production processes and with clear distortions of competition within the european union.
the choice of sectors at risk of carbon leakage based on the nace code classification is simplistic and reductive, as it does not allow the identification of the specific energy-intensive production, with the consequent effect of not allowing the provision of compensation to the subsectors.
for the production of steel, there are two production processes: electric furnace and full cycle using fossil energy and low electricity; will receive almost all the direct quotas free of charge.
in order to safeguard the survival of industry in europe and to ensure employment and welfare, how does the commission intend to proceed with state aid to the energy-intensive sector?
the impact of transferred co2 emissions on the price of electricity will affect the industrial system in different ways, penalising those sectors with higher energy consumption, such as steel and aluminium.
in addition, should not financial compensation be guaranteed for energy consumed as well as for energy purchased from outside?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very concerned about this issue because this directive could have a major impact on the energy-intensive sector.
the labour market and productivity, represented by investment in new technologies, are two fundamental pillars for a sustainable economic growth in europe.
- mr president, setting realistic and achievable medium and long-term objectives is the aim of the measures to be discussed and adopted at the rio+20 summit in june 2012. twenty years after the first summit, the world is still facing two great challenges: improve the lives of the world's population and alleviate pressures on the environment.
challenges that are becoming more and more difficult to cope with, as the number of natural disasters seems to be increasing in recent years, many of them attributable to human activities that do not respect the surrounding environment.
acting and affirming political commitment in support of sustainable development and the green economy is and must be the policy line of the european union to reduce the worsening of climate problems at an alarming rate and to help some 1.4 billion people out of extreme poverty.
− i sustained this resolution because the united nations conference on sustainable development to be held in rio de janeiro in june 2012 represents a unique opportunity for world leaders to set the sustainability agenda for the next 10 years.
the rio+20 summit represents a crucial occasion to reinforce the political commitment for sustainable development at global level and to discuss an integrated approach to address the multiple challenges such as poverty eradication, health, food, employment, gender equality, climate change and energy supply.
the un summit on sustainable development in rio de janeiro should achieve concrete objectives, including on renewable energy and energy efficiency as agreed in parliament today.
parliament supported the european commission's call for a green economy road map, stressing that sustainable growth required new measures and concrete targets.
the resolution calls for an end to environmentally harmful subsidies and for an international financial transaction tax to support climate and biodiversity protection.
the communication will set out the ultimate objectives to pursue and make a distinction between those areas in which progress can be made in the short term and those areas which will still require more substantial work and in which results can only be expected in the longer term.in the forthcoming debate of the college on its work programme for 2012, i will propose new initiatives directly linked with one of our main priorities, namely consolidation and sustainable growth.
so this is not the time to fight over principles, but to focus on shared objectives such as restoring the sustainability of public budgets and then to focus on objectives that are certainly more far-reaching.
the measure would help to restore consumer confidence in the insurance financial environment and would also close some regulatory loopholes in consumer protection.
in times of difficulty it is important to devote considerable energy to counteracting the dispersion of resources caused by evasion and fraud.
we believe that more and more timely action is needed in areas which favour the development of third countries, such as environmental infrastructure, including water supply and sanitation, sustainable transport and climate change mitigation and adaptation.
the increase in ceilings and the possibility for the eib to reinvest the proceeds from previous operations, as proposed in the draft regulation (ec) no 1638/2006, will allow the eu to support more strongly the eu's foreign policy objectives relating to its operations, the millennium development goals, as well as all those programmes that have an impact on the climate, ensuring environmentally and socially sustainable development.
the application of article 10 has implications for public safety and industrial sustainability profiles.
i agree with the rapporteur that attention should be paid to both the industrial sustainability and public safety profiles as laid down in the stockholm programme.
the netherlands also considers that bulgaria and romania have weak judicial and anti-corruption systems, and finland also considers that this proposal is not sustainable.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
it is essential that the european union has a disability strategy in order to foster the creation of a sustainable, competitive and innovative society, developing smart and inclusive growth.
the report calls for the criteria of transparency, clarity, sustainability and accessibility to be respected and for the path of simplification and improvement of legal certainty to be followed.
in the case of tractors, the parameters set out in directive 2005/13 were revised for several reasons: the sudden drop in sales due to the current economic crisis and the lack of technical solutions to limit co2 emissions.
i hope that the european commission will heed the european parliament's call to examine in advance whether the available technologies will be able to meet the requirements of the phase iv foreseen for 2014.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the provisions for tractors placed on the market under a flexibility scheme, which we voted in favour of, was inspired by a measured and realistic approach which was achieved, on the one hand, by avoiding the setting of unlikely and impossible requirements and, on the other, by providing for a so-called flexibility scheme which, by providing for time-frames and corresponding quantitative limits on permitted emissions, provides for the placing on the market of a predetermined annual quota of tractors with certain characteristics and thus makes it possible to dilute over time the adaptation to the standards laid down, without prejudice to the production and industrial sectors concerned.
the work carried out by mr tatarella was important and he was able to strike a careful balance between the needs dictated by the great challenges facing the european union at this time and those of environmental protection and the current context of economic crisis.
mr president, although it is important to reduce the emissions of gaseous pollutants and pollutants produced by the internal combustion engines of non-road mobile machinery, we cannot turn a blind eye to the current crisis situation facing manufacturers.
i therefore congratulate mrs rühle on drawing what i believe to be the red lines of the forthcoming reform of the procurement directive: i am referring in particular to the lowest price criterion, which cannot continue to be decisive during the award phase and must be replaced by the most economically advantageous tender in terms of economic, social and environmental benefits.
firstly, the identification of the most economically advantageous tender which takes account of the costs of the entire life cycle of works, services and supplies and therefore not only of the lowest price, the implementation of a common and widespread feeling in all countries and in all contracting authorities, which will allow for an increase in quality, while at the same time paying greater attention to the environmental and social sustainability of products and services.
mr president, there is no doubt that this text, the one on the modernisation of public procurement, can be an important element in the renewed efficiency and sustainability of the economic system.
i would like to stress that the lowest price criterion does not always have to be the main means of awarding contracts: perhaps it is necessary to replace it with the most cost-effective offer to achieve economic, social and environmental benefits.
it is important to stress that aid is a temporary measure, a source of inclusive and sustainable growth, but with clear and quantifiable objectives, aimed at empowering the beneficiary countries.
- mr president, directive 2000/25/ec lays down the conditions for the entry into service of tractors in relation to harmful exhaust emissions and sets increasingly ambitious targets through successive phases limiting exhaust emissions.
in full compliance with the european policy of combating emissions reductions, which must be developed, the current peculiar economic situation in general and the sector in particular fully justifies the decision to postpone the application of the rules for three years, allowing the parallel development of the essential design and technology necessary for the application, including on low-floor machines, of after-treatment systems capable of ensuring compliance with emission limits without compromising operational requirements.
- i voted in favour of this text because it sets new limits for the emissions of carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxide, hydrocarbons and particulate matter from narrow gauge agricultural and forestry tractors.
this is a natural choice in view of the increasingly significant reduction in the pollutant emissions of this particular category of vehicles.
the commission has proposed a 50% derogation for vehicles produced in the eu over the last five years, due to the technological backlog which makes it impossible to comply with the mechanical changes required to move to the new phase, except at disproportionate cost, and as a consequence of the economic crisis affecting the tractor market, which has seen an annual decline of 20% since 2008. we have spoken in favour of the derogation and the rapporteur also agreed, because the impact on emissions is absolutely negligible.
it should be noted that the new cap provides for funding for farmers who reduce emissions from their farms.
− while we share the ambitious exhaust emission targets set out in directive 2000/25/ec on the putting into service of tractors in relation to harmful exhaust emissions, we must not underestimate the incredible economic crisis affecting the european union.
the reference to limits on emissions of air pollutants, for example, shows how important it is to organise and go in the direction we have set ourselves when we have defined our policies on human health and the environment.
at a particularly critical time for the industry, emissions legislation - and phase iii b in particular - is forcing manufacturers of non-road mobile machinery to redesign some or all of their products to accommodate the new engines.
greater flexibility will therefore not only allow producers to transition more smoothly to the strict phase iiib limits, avoiding excessive burdens, but will also give them the possibility of diluting the necessary investment in research and development over a longer period of time, without sacrificing any of the environmental objectives of the basic directive.
i think it was important, at a time of global crisis such as the present one, which has also affected the non-road mobile machinery sector in particular, to be able to have quick response times with regard to the extension of the flexibility scheme from stage iii a to stage iii b. a complex aspect, combining the needs of a lower environmental impact and lower carbon dioxide emissions with a real understanding of the needs of producers, must be managed in the direction of concrete cooperation, including legislative, between the member states.
- on directive 2004/26/ec and the commission proposal on the extension of the flexibility scheme to one phase of the emissions reduction programme, despite the fact that i consider that a gradual transition is needed to ensure that manufacturers can adapt more easily, taking into account the sharp drop in sales in the construction machinery sector as a result of the economic crisis, and that the commission proposal risks being a relaxation of environmental legislation and fails to reward those who have made efforts to comply with it.
- i believe that reducing emissions from engines of non-road mobile machinery can improve already effective community environmental legislation.
the regulatory framework also needs to take better account of the interrelationship between health, the environment and the economic conditions of enterprises.
our position was in favour of the commission's proposal because the impact on emissions is absolutely negligible.
in general, i agree with the rapporteur's approach, which proposes the adoption of a number of concrete measures aimed at creating a sustainable society, based on an approach rooted in the defence of human rights.
− with this report we intend to encourage the adoption of a whole range of specific measures aimed at promoting the creation of a sustainable society, based on an approach based on respect for fundamental human rights.
− the integration of people with disabilities and the recognition of their rights are crucial to the creation of a sustainable society based on an approach based on respect for human rights; member states should therefore not only ratify the un conventions on the rights of persons with disabilities but also develop national disability policies and strategies to ensure equal opportunities, leveraging factors such as increased employment rates, education and training systems and the unhindered movement of people.
in particular, through appropriate use of this financial instrument, energy efficiency, innovation and environmental protection can be supported.
we cannot, in fact, draw up a plan for the modernisation of public procurement simply because we are dazzled by the effectiveness of the words 'sustainability' and 'computerization'.
− i voted for this report because effective global economic governance would make it possible to minimise the negative effects of globalisation, such as rising inequality and the destruction of the environment.
the current economic crisis has prompted major economic powers, including the european union, to rethink the governance model of the global economy, necessitating a common approach to monetary policy, international trade, sustainable public finances and flexible currencies based on economic fundamentals.
it is emphasised that in a global economic environment of open markets in constant exchange, it is all the more necessary to achieve high shared social and environmental standards, and the european union can act as a global forerunner in this regard.
sustainable development and fair trade make a significant contribution to strong and balanced growth, as called for in the lisbon treaty.
the reform of global governance will need to ensure that markets are integrated into an organic institutional framework that allows them to function properly; the creation of a favourable environment for long-term investment must be the main objective.
this is the result of social and economic inequalities between countries, which create an environment of unsustainable imbalances in the development of the world economy.
the report indeed calls on the eu to reaffirm that aid should be regarded as a temporary measure aimed at fostering self-sustainable growth in developing countries, rather than as a long-term solution.
i believe that if european economic thinking does not revise its conceptual basis and overcome a 'rationalist' approach, growth will be neither intelligent, nor inclusive, nor sustainable, because women will not be there.
that is why it is particularly difficult to give positive signals, and in this direction it would be excellent not only to have a budget which actually starts to build the 2020 strategy, but it would also be really important to do so in a climate of great institutional collaboration.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that the committee on budgets, on the advice of the committee on agriculture, has decided to increase the budget in relation to the table presented to us by the european commission for heading 2, 'agriculture and the environment'.
the increase in spending power and therefore the power to create wealth, if not wisely directed towards concrete ends, does not have the desired effect and produces only waste.
similarly, european support for potential losses from sub-optional investments is certainly perceived as a great example of support and guarantee for the citizens of the union, since we know that otherwise some large projects, for example the supply of energy resources, without public initial capital, would make no sense.
the key role of project bonds is undeniable, and they are now gaining new strength with the joint decision of the epp group and the commission to start a phase of promoting private investment in infrastructure and in the energy, transport, information and communication sectors.
i would like to express particular satisfaction at the consideration given to project bonds, which can promote private investment in infrastructure, energy, research and innovation, opening up a new frontier of investment by common policies.
the union, however, has the capacity to meet this challenge and increase the employment rate, but concrete measures and coordinated responses by member states are needed to promote sustainable growth.
in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, the european commission sets the union as an objective to achieve an employment rate of 75% for people aged 20-64, thus ensuring the sustainability of social protection systems and a significant consolidation of public finances in eu countries.
− the report aims to find solutions to increase employment in the eu by implementing appropriate employment and social policies, promoting the promotion of demand and supply of work in the context of an inclusive economy and sustainable growth, and promoting work-life balance in support of women workers.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it is useless to deny that there is tension between muslims and christians, but to limit ourselves to this aspect would be to give a partial reading; history teaches us that religions can coexist if there's a favorable climate.
one of the important points we have discussed at length and which i believe is also the most important result of the railway reform is the envisaged creation of a national regulator, a network of national regulators with clear powers, a national regulator such as the one for energy, which is strong, has resources and which perhaps - this is the hope of many - will then enable us to arrive at a single european regulator in the future.
we have also envisaged benefits for all those operators who will make important technological innovations to reduce the environmental impact and we have also envisaged that improvements can be made in this area by providing for the possibility of strategic plans that go from 5 years to 7 years.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
this is the direction taken by the report which was voted almost unanimously in the committee on the environment, on which i was rapporteur.
this is a paradox due to the increasing number of cases of pollution of the aquifers.
in italy, for example, in veneto, my region, in the last fifty years, underground mining and landfills have been authorized, which have led to serious pollution of the groundwater, soil and drinking water wells.
in may this year, the regional agency for environmental protection in the veneto region found mercury poisoning in more than 100 wells in several municipalities in the province of treviso.
the most important and necessary soil directive, adopted by the european parliament at first reading in 2007 but still blocked in the council, which provides for the obligation to survey and remediate contaminated sites and thus solve the problem of groundwater pollution, must therefore be unblocked immediately.
first, in the online environment, no member state can ensure consumer and citizen protection on its own.
my personal inclination is, first of all, to promote cooperation between regulators, and i intend in the very next few weeks to convene and organize myself a meeting of all the national regulators to create this climate of confidence, which does not really exist, and to lay the foundations for this cooperation.
each country and region has a budget allocated to it, and it is our common objective to ensure that the budget is used in accordance with the criteria and principles of sustainability and smart use.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the important landscape and environmental role of tree crops is now well known and recognized.
given the provisions of direct payments, which require that 7% of eligible hectares be devoted to ecological areas, what will happen, commissioner, in the case of an olive farm which already includes drywall and row-shaped walls and which also includes perennial plants of great landscape value as well as economic value?
does he not think that these farms are already sufficiently environmentally sustainable and that the application of the 7% requirement above risks damaging economic sustainability and also damaging the environment, as farmers are forced to cut down part of their olive trees?
- the proposal, as presented, recognises the role of tree plantations on the environment since the crop rotation measure is not proposed.
but this measure of keeping 7 per cent at the level of the ecological use of the areas can easily be applied to tree plantations, because the areas, the spaces between the rows of trees or the edges of the plantations can very well be kept under grass.
the negotiations in the coming weeks and months will show how sustainable this proposal is.
to ensure this, we have proposed that there should be a minimum allocation in the different areas for specific areas, such as the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises, innovation or also the promotion of renewable energy and energy efficiency, so as to ensure that the major europe 2020 targets can be achieved.
the strategy must therefore be a broad, comprehensive approach, ranging from financial services to food, from child protection to advertising, and thus be able to make a significant contribution to europe's social and environmental objectives.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, protecting bees means protecting all pollinators, agriculture, the environment and the ecosystem.
in italy we have lost 30 to 70% of the beehives, with serious damage to beekeepers, bees and the environment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, apiculture is a sector which employs a large number of people, some 600,000, and which is a valuable bulwark for agro-environmental biodiversity.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote has focused attention on the beekeeping sector, which is crucial in european agriculture for its contribution to the maintenance of biodiversity and is a source of income for some 600 000 operators in the sector in the european union.
- i voted in favour of the březina report on the framework programme of the european atomic energy community because i believe that co-financed research is a key instrument in the development of increasingly safe and efficient technologies for nuclear energy production.
in addition, significantly increasing the overall level of sustainability of nuclear energy would help to achieve the energy efficiency target that europe has set as a priority.
nuclear energy plays an important role in achieving the objectives set out in the european strategic energy plan (set plan), in particular in reducing carbon emissions, increasing security of supply, reducing dependence on the supply of energy from politically unstable regions of the world and increasing industrial competitiveness.
- i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the future programme on atomic energy and research and training activities in the nuclear sector.
through the framework programme, euratom will promote various research activities in the field of nuclear energy (fusion and fission) and radiation protection.
the funds will be used to finance iter (international thermonuclear experimental reactor) which will demonstrate the scientific and practical feasibility of fusion energy.
− the proposal accompanying this report is aimed at the adoption of a council decision on the specific programme to be implemented by indirect actions and implementing the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training activities (2012-2013).
− in the current climate of crisis and financial emergency in the eu, it is important to regulate and standardise certain aspects of member states' legislation on short selling and credit default swaps.
- i voted in favour of this text because i believe that it is essential in this difficult economic climate to restrict short selling and the trading of so-called credit default swaps, financial products used as insurance against bankruptcy.
the main challenges facing statistical bodies in the future will be: the enlargement of the european union, which has further increased the differences between national farms in terms of land structure and crop systems; the major revision of the common agricultural policy, which is changing the framework of statistical information needs for both the commission and national and regional governments; the need to make the european system of agricultural statistics more homogeneous with that of economic statistics on the one hand and more flexible to new information needs in the field of environmental protection and food safety on the other.
- i voted in favour of mr březina's report on the framework programme of the european atomic energy community because i believe it is important that the european union continues to finance research and training activities in the nuclear sector.
i share the aims of the programme, which are to improve the safety, reliability and efficiency of nuclear power generation, and i welcome the reference to the applicability of these results also to the field of medicine and industry, particularly in the light of the european industrial initiative for sustainable nuclear energy (esnii), which is part of the european strategic energy technology plan (set plan).
given the importance of the nuclear activities of the joint research centre (jrc) in the areas of control and non-proliferation, safety of installations, waste management and environmental radioactivity, it is also important that adequate funding is provided to ensure that they are maintained at a level of excellence.
− in the current euratom programme, the programme for direct actions of the joint research centre gives priority to nuclear waste management, nuclear safety and controls.
this programme focuses on research in the field of waste management and safety of nuclear systems and aims to increase scientific knowledge in order to ensure safe and efficient use of this energy.
the main requirement is the responsible use of nuclear energy in order to protect european citizens and safeguard the environment.
another key aspect concerns the transparency of public information on atomic energy and the nuclear sector.
- i voted in favour of the report by mr březina on the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in the actions provided for in the framework programme of the european atomic energy community because i am convinced that it is necessary to involve academic circles in the nuclear research and development plans financed by the european union.
the contribution of these actors is essential for the development of new technologies that consume fewer resources, are safer and more efficient, and reduce carbon emissions.
− ladies and gentlemen, given the importance of innovation in the europe 2020 strategy, i consider the 2012-13 framework programme to be a great lever to achieve the objectives of the strategy by strengthening competition for scientific excellence and accelerating the implementation of key innovations in the field of nuclear energy, in particular fusion and nuclear safety, while helping to address the challenges posed by the energy sector and climate change.
- this proposal lays down the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in indirect actions under the framework programme of the european atomic energy community and for the dissemination of research results.
- mr president, i abstained on the vote on the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications because, despite the great effort made by my colleagues to raise some of the problems relating to the application of the directive, it was not possible to discuss them, despite the fact that the documentation was sent to the meeting of the coordinators of the working group on the economy and environment.
in my view, a better balance between labour mobility and the quality of recognised vocational qualifications is a key factor for economic development and sustainable growth, which is crucial in a time of such deep crisis.
finally, this strategy should contribute to the development of a low-carbon, and therefore sustainable, economy, which protects children in particular from advertising, since they are not yet aware and able to make informed choices as adults.
the rapporteur has nevertheless managed to balance the focus on crucial market sectors with social needs that we must never forget, such as social and environmental sustainability and protection in the digital environment.
the consumer protection strategy will therefore have to promote the eu 2020 sustainable growth objective and thus increase sustainable public consumption for services such as education, healthcare and care for the elderly.
the rapporteur rightly calls for the empowerment of consumers and the reduction of inequalities and the promotion of sustainable consumption.
the commission will therefore be required to provide the consumer with a secure digital environment, access to telecommunications networks as a tool for social and economic inclusion and respect for the fundamental rights of consumers, especially the protection of privacy.
the illegal component of gambling will be limited and at the same time it will be characterized by a controlled environment in which there is a prevention of addiction and a ban on young people.
the regulatory environment in the different member states is not homogeneous and therefore there are distortions that, by exploiting the characteristic of the internet of offering cross-border services without geographical barriers, allow players residing in countries where online gambling is prohibited to reach online gambling providers from member states where the market is open.
the text of the proposal for a directive proposes targeted measures in the field of research and dissemination of scientific knowledge aimed at maintaining the biodiversity of bees through the effective and safe use of veterinary products.
despite modern technology and advances in science and agriculture, the improvement of biodiversity has always been linked to bees and their pollination activity.
the sector, which is an integral part of the european agricultural sector, provides vital services for the maintenance of biodiversity.
the reasons are still unclear, but it is certain that the harmful effects on bee health have been caused by the presence of toxic agents in the environment, due to the improper or excessive use of pesticides, and by factors related to the use of gm crops.
beekeeping provides a very important service to the ecosystem through pollination, which preserves the biodiversity and genetic diversity of plants while maintaining the ecological balance.
for all these reasons, i welcome the proposals for research measures in the text which aim to maintain the biodiversity of bees by means of the effective and safe use of veterinary products.
− if we do not act effectively to stem the recent bee mortality, this phenomenon could have an irreversible impact on our food production and on europe's environmental stability.
the well-being of bees is a benefit to the entire ecosystem.
i therefore hope that europe will do more to support this strategic sector not only from an economic but also from an environmental point of view.
- ladies and gentlemen, given that the beekeeping sector is an integral part of european agriculture, providing the primary or additional income for over 600,000 citizens of the european union, providing vital services for agriculture through pollination and contributing to the maintenance of biodiversity, the recent increase in bee mortality is a fact that deserves attention.
the beekeeping sector provides important ecosystem services through pollination.
- i voted in favour of this text because the increase in bee mortality could have a very serious impact on food production in europe and on environmental stability, since most plants are pollinated by these insects.
european countries must pool their prevention research, sharing their findings among laboratories, beekeepers, farmers and industry, in such a way as to avoid overlaps and unnecessary waste.
toxic agents such as pesticides in the environment are causing a real slaughter of these insects.
this is why action is also needed to support special training programmes for farmers to make them aware of the effects of these products and the possibility of using alternative techniques with a low environmental impact.
it certainly depends on the way beekeeping is carried out, which can cause stress in the colonies, biological agents such as viruses, environmental factors such as the loss of biodiversity, both qualitative and quantitative, climate change, gmos and electromagnetic radiation, as well as other factors such as the loss of queens and immunodepression.
− the beekeeping sector is of inestimable value to european agriculture: in addition to being a source of direct or indirect income for some 600,000 european citizens, it provides a very important service to agriculture through pollination and contributes to the maintenance of biodiversity.
of course, one of the factors that is being blamed is the presence of toxic agents in the environment, such as the improper or excessive use of pesticides and herbicides.
the latter are of particular importance among the common values of the union, as they promote fundamental rights and social, economic and territorial cohesion, and are therefore essential for combating inequalities in society and for sustainable development.
in this context, it should be stressed that some essential services, in particular those relating to human health, the environment (including the water and waste cycle) and local public transport, are to be considered directly attributable to the exercise of fundamental rights of persons.
to ensure sustainable growth, the most vulnerable must be placed at the heart of the european project.
in the light of the above, i am voting in favour of ensuring sustainable and inclusive growth, and i consider it important that the platform aims to promote innovation and social experimentation, the reduction of all forms of poverty throughout the life span, the optimisation of european funds, the efficiency of social security.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that some of the major economies have already declared that they will not sign a kyoto 2. the european council of 23 october, noting this negotiating deadlock, declared that the european union was only willing to sign up to kyoto 2 as part of a transition towards a global climate treaty with a timetable and a timetable set by all countries.
the european parliament, however, is still living in utopia and is calling, in yet another resolution, which is completely out of touch with reality, for the european union to commit itself to a unilateral reduction in emissions of even more than 20%.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the figures actually show that europe alone cannot contain the effects of climate change.
we also know that china is the largest producer of co2 and that its economy is very much based on coal-fired power, which accounts for one-fifth of the energy produced in china, and that a large part of the domestic heating in china is coal-fired.
i believe that we must now focus on a new climate strategy that focuses on research, renewable sources and energy efficiency, which has not yet been fully exploited.
according to a united nations study, of the $112 billion invested in clean energy worldwide in 2008, only $1.8 billion was spent on improving energy efficiency.
the second review of the agreement, which took place last january 2010, should provide an opportunity to adjust the agreement in the light of recent and ongoing crises, including the north african democracy uprisings, climate change, soaring food and oil prices, the financial crisis and extreme poverty.
we must therefore take urgent action to reduce noise pollution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the resolution on the forthcoming un international conference in durban because i believe that the challenge of climate change due to global warming requires, now more than ever, a very strong commitment on the part of europe.
the climate disruption caused by global warming is backed by overwhelming scientific evidence, and the resulting environmental, human and economic damage is now in plain sight.
europe must maintain a leading role in the fight against global warming, with a commitment to help other countries in terms of technologies and resources.
durban must lead to a legally binding international agreement with concrete results for the fight against global warming and above all it must produce a clear timetable with precise deadlines and commitments for all countries of the world.
mr president, the resolution voted this morning calls on the european union to come to the negotiating table with a commitment to reduce emissions by more than 20% by 2020, regardless of the outcome of the international negotiations.
the european union already has a commitment after 2012, namely to reduce emissions by 20%, as provided for in the climate and energy package.
the european union further confirms its willingness to sign a second commitment period only as part of a transition to a comprehensive climate treaty that requires agreement by all countries on a timetable and roadmap.
some large emitters, such as japan and russia, seem to be evading their commitments, while others do not seem to be giving the problem of climate change the right priority.
the next climate change conference will be held in durban from 28 november to 9 december.
i recall that the climate and energy package, adopted in 2008, was based on the premise that the other major emitters would follow europe's example and commit to legally binding measures.
the european union already has a commitment after 2012, namely, the 20% reduction in emissions as envisaged in the climate and energy package.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report because i believe it is an incentive to do more to achieve the objectives closely linked to the issue of climate change.
the temperature rise caused by pollution is a problem that must be dealt with and requires joint action and understanding with other non-european forces.
the european union, for its part, has repeatedly reaffirmed its willingness to meet its commitments in this area and, if possible, to go even further, by reducing co2 emissions further by 2020.
in writing.
− i find the call to develop a principle of 'climate justice' interesting, as the greatest injustice would be if the eu did not tackle climate change, as it would particularly affect the poor in poor countries.
the eu has shown its intention to fight to continue the process started by the kyoto protocol and to control co2 emissions after 2012. the resolution, which was adopted by a large majority, also states that going beyond the 20% emission reduction target by 2020 could stimulate the european economy and develop new investments in renewable energy sectors and thus increase job creation.
− i voted for this resolution because it stresses the fact that mobilising domestic resources in partner countries is the key to sustainable development.
the eu development policy should aim to eliminate structural obstacles to the poverty eradication goal by implementing policy coherence for development between eu policies on agriculture, trade, investment, tax havens, access to raw materials and climate change.
the next climate change conference will be held in durban from 28 november to 9 december.
i recall that the climate and energy package, adopted in 2008, was based on the premise that the other major emitters would follow europe's example and commit to legally binding measures.
the european union already has a commitment after 2012, namely, the 20% reduction in emissions as envisaged in the climate and energy package.
the mobilisation of national resources is the key to sustainable development.
− this report invites us to consider the real function of cinema in europe and its role in the creation and sustainability of a civil society.
- having regard to the relative importance of cinema in transmitting values and characters for the shaping and creation of a 'european soul', and having regard also to the important role that cinema plays in the creation and sustainability of a civil society, i consider it appropriate to support european cinema at this time when it is faced with a challenging challenge of adapting modern technologies.
the house also called for the commission to be given the power to adopt the necessary legislative measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected.
today, more than ever, there is a need not only to continue in this direction but also and above all to renew and strengthen the maritime policy within the community, bearing in mind our responsibilities in this area and starting from the idea that it is possible to reconcile the increase of economic activities at sea with the protection of the environment, and to develop a link between the two provided that appropriate governance and appropriate transversal mechanisms are in place.
i therefore believe that the first objective for strengthening the integrated maritime policy must be to encourage as much as possible the sustainable exploitation of the oceans, while promoting the development of the maritime sectors and coastal regions.
i also believe that the promotion of sustainable development, the protection and use of coastal marine resources and the development of targeted strategies for sea basins should be included in the general objectives of the programme which should be underpinned by more specific rules on spending and that parliament should be adequately involved in their implementation.
we must start planning in such a way that tourism, fishing, mining and - why not - this extraordinary wind energy that can be developed off-shore are a wealth and are compatible with each other, just as fishing and fishing activities cannot be lived in a vacuous way and dealt with only in terms of fishing gear and quantity.
this phenomenon causes serious environmental, economic and social damage and, as the united nations report on drugs and crime also shows, is often carried out by real criminal organizations that commit crimes such as tax evasion, customs fraud, money laundering, bribery and bribery.
we are as concerned as ever about the interests of the fisheries sector and agree on the need to combine them with the requirements for greater transparency and attention to sustainability arising from changing climatic, economic and social conditions.
i believe it is absolutely necessary to continue the work begun in 2007 by encouraging the sustainable exploitation of marine resources, combating illegal fishing and making the maritime transport system more efficient.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the disaster that struck fukushima last march inevitably called into question confidence in nuclear energy.
in addition to an initial response motivated by emotional impact, it is however right and appropriate to reflect on the investments needed to make this form of energy safer.
furthermore, i believe that the first objective for strengthening the integrated maritime policy for the eu should be to encourage the sustainable exploitation of the oceans and seas while promoting the development of the maritime sectors and coastal regions.
- i voted in favour of this text because i believe it is important to budget eur 40 million for programmes and pilot projects under the integrated maritime policy for the period 2011-2013. this will increase the potential for creating synergies to support economic growth, innovation, employment, social cohesion and environmental protection.
− the text proposes a series of initiatives in all the areas of action related to the sea, in particular transport, fisheries, the environment, energy, industry, employment, research and external relations, emphasising the need to promote synergies through the application of an integrated approach to the various sectoral policies.
at the same time, cross-sectoral instruments such as maritime spatial planning, integrated surveillance and marine environmental studies have been progressively promoted and implemented with a view to contributing to a significant improvement in the management of the sea and coastal areas.
i believe that the practical development of research in all fields of science, through the efforts of many passionate researchers, is an absolute priority, and that the institutions must invest in it with courage, aware that a large part of the future of our europe and the security of future energy supplies in general and nuclear in particular at global level are at stake.
− the legislative package in question aims to extend support for nuclear research and development actions under the euratom seventh framework programme 2007-2011 and will cover the two-year period 2012-2013, in line with the timetables of the eu seventh framework programme (2007-2013) and the objectives of the europe 2020 and energy 2020 strategies.
after the tragic events in fukushima, the eu needs more research in the nuclear sector, not less, including to improve the safety of nuclear power stations and the management of existing plants, waste and waste disposal processes.
the european union has the united states of america as its main partner in carrying out the main joint projects concerning economic relations, growth and the environment.
moreover, i want to stress that the human rights dossier and the nuclear energy dossier for iran should be kept clearly separate, and that no action should be taken by any state that could risk leading to a military attack against iran.
− the own-initiative report is on a topic of importance for the conservation of biodiversity and the health of marine fauna; i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a regulation on the common fisheries policy.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their opinions on the draft directive on the protection of the marine environment.
i therefore welcome this report, as well as others on the same subject and with the same approach, because the eu must contribute to the efforts of the international community to combat iuu fishing by calling on itself and the member states to do everything possible to eradicate a criminal phenomenon, a criminal one that puts the survival of the marine ecosystem at risk and indirectly threatens international security.
regular fishing also contributes to the respect and maintenance of appropriate criteria for marine environmental sustainability.
i also believe that the establishment of a 'european coast guard', as indicated in the report, could increase the common monitoring and inspection capacity and effectively combat current and future threats at sea, such as illegal fishing, but also terrorism, piracy, trafficking and marine pollution.
this not only has serious consequences for food security and environmental protection, but also leads to the loss of economic and social opportunities in the short and long term.
this situation leads to the loss of economic and social opportunities in the short and long term, as well as negative impacts on food security and environmental protection.
european citizens are calling for decisive action from leaders in order to protect sustainable growth and employment and in order to counter the contagion that is currently going on in the financial markets, which is threatening our jobs and growth.
i believe, however, that today's vote in this parliament, as the council did yesterday, will be to pass an austere and responsible budget which takes full account of the crisis, but which at the same time seeks to revive investment and the economy in order to focus on the objective of smart, inclusive and sustainable growth in the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the overriding objective of european union cooperation is the eradication of poverty in partner countries and regions in the context of sustainable development, including the pursuit of the millennium development goals, and the promotion of democracy, good governance and respect for human rights and the rule of law.
special thematic seminars were devoted to the most sensitive areas; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
in the 2012 budget, the clear widening of the gap between commitment and payment appropriations is a sign that the current system for supplying the community's resources is inefficient and insufficient and that, consequently, the time has come for a change in it, based on a real system of own resources deriving, in addition to the ftt and a new vat, also from a new form of taxation of energy sources.
i think that the large majority vote today fully reflects the constructive spirit with which the three institutions have worked over the past months to get the european 2012 budget approved, a budget which, in my view, takes full account of the difficult period of crisis, but which, at the same time, seeks to revive investment and the economy in order to focus on the objective of smart, inclusive and sustainable growth in the european union.
it is therefore crucial to take action to channel the energy and develop the skills of young people.
high rates of early school leaving have social and economic implications, so it is crucial to take action to channel the energy and develop the skills of young people.
to achieve this, it is necessary for member states to develop ways of reintegrating early school leavers into the education system by implementing appropriate programmes, such as 'second chance schools', which provide an appropriate learning environment, which can help young people to regain confidence in themselves and their ability to learn.
in my view, the policies of the various countries should be strongly interlinked in order to ensure sustainable growth and increased employment, as envisaged in the europe 2020 strategy.
− as envisaged in the europe 2020 strategy, improving the economic governance framework should be based on a set of interconnected and mutually consistent policies for sustainable growth and employment.
- it would be unthinkable - in line with the developments in the enp - not to support the association agreement with ukraine, which, on the other hand, plays a key strategic role in a sector as fundamental as energy resources.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the iter project is of strategic importance at international level for the european union, which is leading a huge research project for the future energy supply with other countries such as the united states and russia.
reduction of tariffs, non-tariff barriers and protectionism still too widespread, not only in emerging countries these are the factors which represent the most serious obstacles to the creation of an effective international trading system: europe must be more aware of its role and must put its democratic, social and open community political model at the service of stronger multilateral cooperation and balanced, sustainable bilateral agreements which respect civil and social rights; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
we must not waste time approving the allocation of the solidarity fund, because 13 months must already have elapsed since the events took place.
this will certainly make it easier to facilitate legal immigration, but much more effort is needed to achieve a sustainable and lasting growth standard through simplified procedures, transparency of immigrant rights, the fight against illegal immigration and the guarantee of bureaucratic procedures.
i am convinced that this regulation will be a very important instrument for safeguarding biodiversity, also in view of the enormous traffic of ships that ply the mediterranean waters.
the agreements on the sustainable exploitation of fisheries, fisheries resources and all things fisheries of the 23 countries plus the eu, which are part of the commission, will be able to be transposed directly by the member states, which will consequently be able to adapt to the new recommendations from time to time.
the implementation of these recommendations is essential to ensure the biodiversity of the mediterranean and the sustainable management of its fisheries resources and to prevent the mediterranean from becoming a dead sea.
let me briefly summarise the main recommendations which have been adopted today: certain restrictions on fishing within the gulf of lion will be imposed; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy.
therefore, a healthy ecological status of this important sea basin and the promotion of its sustainable development requires a series of measures for the conservation and management of marine biological resources.
until now all companies, large and small, have been subject to the same accounting rules, which i do not think is fair given the waste and effort that proportionately smaller companies have had to bear.
the ultimate objective should be to limit litigation and the costs associated with it for european businesses, without compromising the quality of the resulting regulatory environment.
in europe, the market for fruit juices represents 10% of the market for non-alcoholic beverages, and i hope that in future people will prefer a local product which combines high quality with sustainable agricultural development, in accordance with european principles of food safety.
the choice of this addition allows us to vote in favour because in fact if we had kept the original approach of the envi committee we would simply have led the consumer to use twice as much detergent in the dishwasher than the indicated dose, with the consequence that absolutely nothing would have changed for the environment, while the consumer would have spent twice as much to be able to wash as before.
the same council agreed to extend the scope to dishwashing detergents with a limit of 0,3 grams from 2017, subject to any amendments, and to laundry detergents with a limit of 0,5 grams from 30 june 2013. i therefore consider the final text to be an honourable, fair and discreet agreement for business, consumers and the environment, and we will undoubtedly vote in favour of it.
let me underline the key difference between fiscal and macroeconomic surveillance, and between the excessive deficit procedure and the excessive imbalance procedure: both are preventive, but macroeconomic surveillance is even more preventive than fiscal surveillance, and as such is necessary for economic stability and fiscal sustainability.
the text to be inserted after paragraph 7 of the resolution is as follows: 'calls on the commission to introduce a human rights clause in the fisheries agreement with morocco, as also provided for in the european parliament resolution on human rights and social and environmental standards in international trade agreements;'.
phosphorus accelerates the reproduction of various life forms, so algae and other fast-growing plant species proliferate at an unprecedented rate when phosphorus is increased in an aquatic environment.
it is a significant aspect which does not exhaust the activities of the european union, but which at the moment gives the mediterranean a central role: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in drawing up this report.
the european processing industry, unlike other countries, is complementary to that of the marketing of fresh products and consequently generates a massive import of these products, causing high environmental costs in terms of co2.
it is necessary to support the european sector, which has a significant added value in terms of employment, and to improve the quality of products, including more sustainable production processes that can also affect producers in third countries.
phosphates are damaging the already delicate and precarious balance of our ecosystem.
that is why i believe that with today's vote europe has taken another step towards the free movement of these products, while at the same time ensuring better protection of the environment.
the general aim is to ensure greater consumer safety and environmental protection because these substances can be and often are harmful.
pollution of groundwater and various domestic accidents are evidence of this.
the aim of the commission's proposal for a regulation is to reduce the use of phosphorus in detergents, limiting pollution of water systems, rivers, streams and lakes, and to create harmonised regulations at european level for the member states.
combating the excessive use of phosphorus in household detergents, fertilisers and appliances means effectively and efficiently combating the degenerative cycle that the use of products with low environmental respect brings to the environment and to the health of the population.
the need also emerged to draw up agreements with third countries so that europe would commit itself, by a predetermined date, to reducing the use of phosphorous substances and to advancing the process of market adaptation towards new regulatory rules which are more properly respectful of the european environment.
by adopting this important report on the reduction of phosphorus in household washing machine detergents, we are making a valuable contribution to the reduction of pollution in europe's water systems.
phosphorus from household detergents used to combat water hardness is a major contributor to this type of ecological imbalance.
substances in detergents for washing machines, although necessary to ensure minimum standards of hygiene and health safety, can be harmful to the environment if present in excessive quantities, in particular they are responsible for the 'eutrophication of water'.
i think we need to find a solution, by looking for substitutes for phosphates, which are equally effective but not harmful to the environment.
− the european union's priorities include the protection of the environment and the promotion of sustainable policies.
to avoid this environmental damage, the phosphorus content of detergents must be reduced.
the rapporteur of the recommendation, along with an independent evaluation produced by the commission, plus the opinions of the development and budget committees and the assessment of authoritative un experts concur that the agreement is a waste of taxpayers’ money, it is ecologically and environmentally unsustainable and it has no significant macroeconomic effect on either the eu or morocco.
- i am against the extension of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement with morocco for one year, as this protocol presents a number of problems both in terms of its economic usefulness and its ecological implications.
the agreement raises serious concerns about the ecological issue.
given the financial contribution to the fisheries sector, it is essential that the cost-benefit ratio be changed, that more attention be paid to the economic and ecological consequences of overexploitation of depleted stocks.
- i welcome this resolution on russia: i believe that it is essential to continue the partnership in the energy field and in the political field, especially in the light of the current world situation.
the more favourable climate in relations, with the enlargement of markets, the opening up of transport, the liberalisation of short-stay visas and specific agreements on local traffic between the eu-russia border areas, will certainly be positive and beneficial for all and will, above all, strengthen the foreign and security policy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i do not agree with the basic principle that immigration should be seen as an opportunity, regardless of the consequences for the security and social and economic environment of our countries, and i am opposed to the basic policy suggested in the report, which is to facilitate the issuing of visas and the procedures for entry into europe for immigrants from neighbouring countries.
cohesion policy was among the first to adopt its regional dimension, representing its added value and helping to ensure its effectiveness and sustainability.
the report proposes new directions for the future architecture of the policy, to strengthen its performance, to ensure strong sustainable growth and increased global competitiveness.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the agenda includes the report by mr mathieu grosch, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the roadmap to a single european transport area towards a competitive and sustainable transport policy (2011/2096 ((ini)) (a7-0425/2011)
mr president, tomorrow we will vote and adopt this strategic direction for the future of transport, but we already have some legislative acts on the table.
the challenge is to develop sustainable transport, but we must also aim to build an efficient intermodal transport network.
in this connection, i am in favour of the creation of an authority with responsibility for road transport, which will be able to promote the harmonization of the member states in areas such as environmental sustainability, safety, vocational training and certification, accompanying the process of liberalization and solving the challenges of the sector, in a way similar to what has been considered to be done in rail transport.
the next item is the debate on: - the oral question to the commission by maria da graça carvalho, bendt bendtsen, paul rübig, krišjānis kariņš, pilar del castillo vera, romana jordan cizelj, on behalf of the ppe group, fiona hall, sir graham watson, on behalf of the alde group, claude turmes, on behalf of the green/efa group, anni podimata, jo leinen, teresa riera madurell, silvia-adriana ţicău, britta thomsen, on behalf of the s&d group, on the intelligent energy - europe (iee) programme under the multiannual financial framework (o-000244/2011 b7-0668/2011), and - the oral question to the commission by rolandas paksas and juozas imbrasas, on behalf of the edf group, on the intelligent energy - europe ii programme and the multiannual financial perspective (o-000223/2011 b7-0672/2011)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market.
over 500 projects funded, more than 3,000 partners involved - most of them small and medium-sized enterprises - not to mention the added value that the programme itself has brought to the renewable energy and energy efficiency sectors.
like my colleagues, i am concerned about the future of the programme, which has played a central role in raising awareness, exchanging good practice and implementing the european union's energy policies.
this usefulness and cost-effectiveness can be seen in a programme with a not-so-big budget of eur 743 million that still has a huge leverage effect and impact on energy efficiency and renewable energy in the european union.
the commitment cannot disappear because this is so conducive to the goals of the 2020 strategy, and energy efficiency is among the seven priority areas of the strategy for the future of europe.
the energy component is classified as secure, clean and efficient energy.
we cannot give up on the issue of energy security on the continent, on which we will be so dependent in the coming years.
energy security is an important aspect of horizon 2020. it is clearly the place for an energy component which is classified as clean and efficient energy; it is the place for intelligent energy and for a dedicated element of this energy component.
of course this is not the only place to find money for intelligent, renewable and efficient energy.
there is a very limited range of goals, and energy efficiency is the number one area of the structural funds to which funding is to be committed in this type of region of europe.
so we are looking at the position of intelligent energy in the multiannual framework.
the european union has developed a series of ambitious legislative measures and strategic decisions to make europe a competitive and sustainable territory.
this is why the contribution of the intelligent energy programme, through its executive agency (eaci) in the field of energy efficiency, is crucial.
it should be noted that the eei programme is of strategic importance for the economic recovery of the union and for the revival of crucial issues such as energy security, the environment and health.
the report deals with a number of areas which are still problematic, such as energy, telecommunications and banking.
the main reasons for this are: waste, excessive use of intermediaries, security costs, overbilling and corruption.
the climate is favourable and supportive of citizenship, as is shown by the activity of consumer associations in the field of european competition law.
however, we see in many member states the failure to deal satisfactorily with the problem of waste management.
in recent years, waste management has become a major social problem: the difficulty in managing these issues has negative effects not only on human health and well-being, but also on the wider environment.
although the union has adopted draft legislation to ensure a legal framework to address the issue, an analysis of waste management policies reveals conflicting information: some member states, including denmark, the netherlands, austria and sweden, are very advanced, while many other eu countries show a significant delay in implementing waste strategies that have led to serious violations of eu legislation.
i think that the urgency of implementing a coherent waste management policy in europe is clear.
i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the commission's proposal for a more proactive waste management verification procedure combined with an early warning system for compliance is valid.
the report argues that emsa's increased tasks will need to be realistically reflected in its budget and staffing so that it can cope with the new tasks proposed by the commission: contribute to traffic monitoring systems with a view to achieving a european maritime area without barriers; assist the commission and the member states in preventing pollution from oil spills by increasing the role of the existing cleanseanet; assisting neighbouring countries in reducing pollution risks.
we need more cooperation between the agency, the member states and the commission, so that emsa can provide us with technical, operational and scientific assistance in the areas of response to pollution caused by ships, as well as the response to marine pollution caused by oil from oil and gas installations and support the member states' marine pollution response mechanisms.
by clarifying the agency's tasks more specifically than in the past, the changes introduced are aimed at achieving greater efficiency and lower costs: the various tasks of emsa will therefore include assistance in preventing pollution from offshore oil and gas installations, combating piracy and illegal maritime traffic, and strengthening traffic monitoring systems to achieve a european maritime area without barriers.
i believe that the creation of such a space is essential in order to increase the economic efficiency of the sector and the protection of the environment, but also to ensure better social and employment conditions for the citizens of our community.
the creation of a single european area is therefore a factor of connection with regional, environmental, social, economic and employment policy.
i support the text of the report, which appears to be homogeneous and unitary, particularly comprehensive, covering the different transport areas (road, rail, air, water) and ensuring sustainability in each of these areas and a coherent and efficient overall network.
the key point i particularly appreciated in the report was the eco-sustainability aspect, the emphasis on using transport which is more environmentally friendly and energy-efficient.
the european council welcomed the commission's proposal to establish a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment.
the vote calls for a series of initiatives to step up european engagement, focusing on the objectives and actions most likely to help meet the most pressing challenges: human rights and the rule of law, water, energy and regional security.