as serbia moves towards the european union, significant efforts must be made in certain areas, in particular the improvement of the business environment in serbia.
the experience of lithuanian investors raises legitimate questions about the business environment and the protection of foreign investment in serbia.
serbia needs to find ways to ensure a transparent and predictable business environment, to deal with bureaucratic constraints, legal uncertainty and the like.
in addition, aviation fuel is generally exempt from taxation under traditional bilateral agreements, and such taxation is permitted under council directive 2003/96/ec amending the community framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity when activities are carried out within the territory of the european union.
the number and intensity of natural disasters worldwide have increased sharply as a result of the effects of climate change.
the humanitarian aid environment has changed significantly in recent years and calls for an even stronger and more active application of the humanitarian aid agreement.
as regards the change in circumstances, it should be noted in particular that the impact of climate change has led to a sharp increase in the number and intensity of natural disasters.
at the same time, global food production is becoming increasingly vulnerable to extreme weather events linked to climate change, which can lead to sudden, unpredictable food shortages.
with the rapidly increasing number of people in the world, the agricultural sector must meet the growing demand for food despite the constraints of limited natural resources, high energy prices and climate change.
however, i am in no way opposed to the use, consumption, import and other activities of genetically modified material and to the authorisation of production methods used in third countries, as there is no evidence to suggest that this does not pose a risk to human health or the environment.
the creation of a favourable environment for the development of medium-sized, small and very small enterprises in the tourism sector is the fundamental principle of this consolidated framework.
to achieve this we have proposed three concrete actions aimed firstly at boosting the competitiveness of the tourism sector within our union, secondly at promoting the development of sustainable, responsible and quality tourism, and thirdly at consolidating the image and visibility of europe as a set of sustainable and quality tourist destinations and, of course, maximising the potential of the union's policies and financial instruments to develop tourism.
the initiatives promoted should provide the sector with the tools to adapt to the challenges faced by its players and to undertake sustainable development in terms of competitiveness.
in addition, a strategy for the promotion of a diversified tourist offer and the creation of a virtual observatory with electronic support for european tourism will make it possible to contribute equally to the creation of a favourable environment for the players in the sector.
finally, i would like to point out that small and mediumsized enterprises in the tourism sector are fully benefiting from the measures proposed under the small business act which aims to facilitate the operational environment specific to small and mediumsized enterprises and that parliament will receive the updated text within a few weeks.
i just want to take this opportunity to highlight other waste management problems in the european union.
these problems are reflected in particular in the neglect of waste management priorities by national and local authorities.
for example, in one lithuanian city, entrepreneurs who want to build a waste incineration plant mislead the public by lining up waste incineration or even by putting it in front of other waste management methods - avoidance, sorting.
unfortunately, the local authorities and the authorities responsible for waste management do not pay much attention to this deception.
i therefore urge the commission to address the problem of waste management in the european union by drawing attention to the cases of non-compliance with the waste management priorities laid down in the european union's waste directive.
moreover, it will require further efforts to overcome it fully, and i therefore support the priorities identified by hungary on the issues of european economic stabilisation, enlargement of the european union, energy and roma integration.
it should be stressed that these voluntary agreements on timber trade cannot undermine the eu's overall objective of combating climate change and must guarantee the sustainable use of forests.
i believe that these voluntary agreements will contribute more than hinder the common goal of stopping the trade in illegally harvested timber and the goal of helping to stop deforestation and destruction and the associated carbon emissions and biodiversity loss on a global scale.
however, the sector faces many serious management problems that lead to environmental degradation, increased inequality, poverty and corruption.
this voluntary partnership agreement between cameroon and the eu is a good example of how responsible purchasing can have a positive impact on the quality of the environment in third countries or the global environment in general, reduce pollution, combat climate change, poverty and corruption.
i believe that responsible sourcing can make a significant contribution to reducing unfair and illegal trade and to the conservation of forests and biodiversity.
it should be stressed that these voluntary agreements on trade in timber cannot undermine the eu's overall objective of combating climate change and must guarantee the sustainable use of forests, halt deforestation and forest degradation and the associated carbon emissions and biodiversity loss globally.
it should be stressed that these voluntary agreements on trade in timber cannot undermine the eu's overall objective of combating climate change and must guarantee the sustainable use of forests, halt deforestation and forest degradation and the associated carbon emissions and biodiversity loss globally.
the european union is committed to ensuring long-term stability and sustainable development in the western balkans.
i would also urge the country to continue to create an environment conducive to the development of democracy, the rule of law, a free market economy and respect for human rights.
serbia has made progress in environmental protection.
however, the country should make more efforts in the areas of renewable energy and energy efficiency.
the main elements of eu renewable energy legislation still need to be transposed into national legislation.
the parties shall adopt legislation on energy efficiency.
however, in the longer term, it is clear that humanitarian aid providers are not obliged to continue to fill the gaps or to perform the functions of the state of haiti and that measures are needed to ensure sustainable development, in particular access to healthcare, drinking water and good sanitation.
another aspect is whether it is profit or economic benefit or environmental and conservation.
i think that the european union, which has always been a leader in the fight against climate change, also needs to pay more attention to the second aspect when combining both approaches.
congratulations to the rapporteur, mr gahler, for initiating the very important and necessary report of the european parliament on the far north and for responding to the commission's recommendation to formulate a european union policy towards the arctic region with very specific and comprehensive proposals: from the involvement of local populations in the dialogue, stability and security in the region to future projects, environmental aspects and climate change.
it is therefore important to develop a dialogue to prevent the arctic region from becoming an arena for competition between states and mining companies, with local populations and the particularly sensitive arctic environment as the main victims.
the report says that mining projects will increase over time in the arctic, where the effects of climate change are particularly pronounced.
therefore, i think it is fair and particularly important to note that the environmental impact assessment...
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc.
the european humanitarian university in vilnius is one of the most successful projects of sustainable development cooperation in belarus.
i am convinced that the active role of the parliament in shaping eu competition policy will make a significant contribution to the successful application of competition policy and the smooth functioning of the internal market, which are the key conditions for sustainable economic growth in the european union.
the european union's competition policy is based on the principles of open markets and a level playing field in all sectors, which is a key element of a successful internal market and a precondition for the creation of sustainable and knowledge-based jobs.
i would like to stress the need to develop clear competition rules that are favourable and beneficial to small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), since the successful application of competition policy and the smooth functioning of the internal market are key conditions for sustainable economic growth in the european union.
competition in the energy sector, agricultural production and other sectors still has shortcomings, and parliament should be more actively involved in the formulation of competition policy provisions as a co-legislator.
parliament's active role in shaping eu competition policy will make a major contribution to the successful application of competition policy and the functioning of the internal market, which are the key conditions and prerequisites for sustainable growth in the eu economy.
− i voted in favour of this resolution on a sustainable eu policy in the far north.
i agree that a unified, coordinated eu policy for the arctic is necessary, with a clear definition of the eu's priorities, potential challenges and strategy, taking into account the arctic's renewable and non-renewable resources, the impact of climate change on the region and the differing geopolitical assessments of the arctic at large.
the arctic is a sensitive region where the impacts of climate change are particularly pronounced and have serious implications for other regions of the world.
the best way to protect the arctic is therefore to have a long-term and ambitious global climate agreement, but the rapid warming of the arctic requires exploring other possible short-term measures to limit warming in the arctic.
local populations, whose economies are largely dependent on the sustainable use of natural resources, and therefore the mitigation of climate change and its impacts and the right of local populations to a clean natural environment are also human rights issues, should not be overlooked.
− i voted for the report on a sustainable eu policy in the far north, because climate change is the main driver of change in the arctic and beyond.
it is agreed that the arctic region is the region most affected by climate change and pollution with causes in the industrialized or developing parts of the world.
the eu is already an international leader in research and environmental and climate change policy and will continue to play this role in the future.
in this context, and recalling the contribution of the eu and its member states to research, funding, its impact on the adoption of eu law on the environment, climate, fisheries and other issues, as well as the future possibilities for cooperation in mapping and maritime security, economic development and the like, it can be concluded that the eu can make a significant contribution to the sustainable development of the arctic region.
this region will be crucial for a world adapting to climate change and facing challenges of growing population and resource scarcity.
− i voted in favour of this resolution on a sustainable eu policy in the far north.
the arctic region is receiving increasing attention due to the impact of climate change, which is the main driver of further development.
europe not only has a certain responsibility as one of the major polluters and emitters of greenhouse gases, but also has a special interest in the arctic region, as it will have to deal with the consequences of changes in the region, ranging from environmental and climate change issues to shipping route geopolitics and security of supply.
it is necessary to formulate the european union's policy towards the arctic in very specific and comprehensive proposals, from the inclusion of local populations in the dialogue, to stability and security in the region, to the environmental and climate change aspects of future projects.
local people have the right to a clean natural environment.
i am of the opinion that the main objectives of the black sea strategy must be the creation of an area of peace, the stability and prosperity of the black sea, and the ensuring of the eu's energy security.
this is why security, good governance, energy, transport, environmental protection, social, economic and human development must be prioritised.
in addition, the main objectives of the black sea strategy must be the creation of an area of peace, the stability and prosperity of the black sea, and the ensuring of the eu's energy security.
this is why security, good governance, energy, transport, environmental protection, social, economic and human development must be prioritised.
i agree that the main objectives of the black sea strategy must be the creation of an area of peace, the stability and prosperity of the black sea, and the ensuring of the eu's energy security.
this is why security, good governance, energy, transport, environmental protection, social, economic and human development must be prioritised.
mr president, the european council is expected to approve that no eu member state should remain an energy island after 2015. as a rule, interconnections are absent in those member states where the natural gas sector is dominated by an incumbent operator.
full ownership unbundling – is the only effective and reasonable way to encourage infrastructure investments (in this case in lithuania), introduce competition and speed up integration into the eu internal energy market.
without this access, the goal of achieving a fully integrated and functioning eu internal energy market by 2014 will be undermined.
the next decade will be crucial for the european union as a whole, as member states will have to make serious choices: to replace existing sources and infrastructure and to meet the growing energy needs that will be necessary for the future development of the european economy.
this energy council meeting is really important.
it could become historic if the specific principles for the development of the common internal energy market are agreed.
it will indeed allow all 27 member states of the european union to coordinate their actions and focus their efforts on creating a greater and more competitive environment for our economy, increasing employment and reducing social exclusion.
while investment decisions are often made by market participants, political decisions also play a crucial role in creating a stable and transparent investment environment.
it supports the efforts of african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries to reduce poverty and achieve sustainable economic and social development.
the european union is committed to the smooth and gradual integration of developing countries into the world economy, with a view to their sustainable development.
the financial support measures to be adopted under the programme should aim at improving the standard of living and living conditions of the population located in banana-growing areas and living off the value chain of the banana sector, in particular of small farmers and small enterprises, as well as ensuring compliance with occupational health and safety and environmental protection standards, in particular as regards the use and exposure to pesticides.
the financial and economic crisis, climate change, the emergence of new information technologies, the fight against terrorism are exacerbating human rights problems and are giving rise to new forms of human rights violations.
the negative impacts of climate change are particularly likely to affect vulnerable groups in developing countries.
i believe that democratization and the electoral process are also important for poverty reduction, sustainable development, peace and stability.
in cooperating, the union should take into account the efforts of beneficiary countries to comply with the international agreements of the international labour organisation and to contribute to the common objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
− i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment.
the fact that waste electrical and electronic equipment is one of the fastest growing parts of the waste stream poses a number of challenges for us.
according to the european commission's impact assessment, almost 85% of waste electrical and electronic equipment is now collected.
however, the amount of waste electrical and electronic equipment handled is not reported to public authorities and only a small proportion is properly treated: only 33% of waste electrical and electronic equipment is officially described in reports, collected and treated in accordance with the requirements of the directive.
increasing the amount of waste recycled is becoming a challenge.
the member states are the key players in the fight against illegal shipments of waste.
so far, there has been a large-scale illegal shipment of waste equipment outside the eu.
waste equipment is too often declared as used but still functioning equipment and exported as such from the eu.
it is therefore necessary to regulate the simplified disposal of waste electrical and electronic equipment and used equipment.
− i supported this proposal because waste electrical and electronic equipment is one of the fastest growing parts of the waste stream.
on the one hand, attention should be paid to the environmental and health impacts of improper treatment or disposal of these equipment, while on the other hand, the loss of raw materials is another important issue.
the efficient and innovative use of energy, materials and resources is the foundation of the global economy.
therefore, increasing the collection and proper treatment of waste materials in accordance with the directive is a major challenge and a necessity.
we must think about and promote the appropriate collection and treatment of waste electrical and electronic equipment, because strong measures help to promote economic growth with a balanced impact on the environment and a clean and healthy environment for our people.
i agree that not only the producers, the member states, but also we ourselves, the consumers, must contribute to a clean and healthy environment, and we must take a large share of the responsibility for the proper management of waste equipment.
− i voted in favour of this directive because i believe that the management of waste electrical and electronic equipment is another challenge we need to overcome.
at the moment, my country, lithuania, is unfortunately very far behind the eu average in terms of the management of this waste.
waste electronics and electronic equipment an excellent source of precious metals and other resources imported into the eu.
if all this waste was properly managed, reused and recycled, we could save a lot of money on raw materials.
i hope that the new directive, although it will take a long time to come into force, which should lead to a more perfect system for the collection, reuse and recycling of waste, will both open up new opportunities for business and reduce the burden on the end user.
− waste electrical and electronic equipment is one of the fastest growing waste types.
in this cycle, we face two major problems: resources and waste.
i voted in favour of this report because i support the aim of collecting as much of the waste as possible, recycling it and putting it back into the world.
this is the only way to reduce the need for useful resources and the amount of waste going to landfill.
if we want to maintain high levels of consumption in the future, we need to be more responsible in the way we use and waste the remaining natural resources.
this requires a major reorientation of research and increased and sustainable funding of the vaccine package.
− i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the waste crisis in campania.
a major effort is needed to ensure that campania complies with eu waste legislation and to reduce waste.
efforts should also be made to prevent, reduce, reuse and recycle waste.
more attention should be paid to the recovery of organic waste, especially in the above mentioned region, which is predominantly agricultural.
the european parliament considers that the exceptional measures taken by the italian authorities over a long period, including the appointment of special commissioners and the strategic status of waste treatment sites under military control, have been unsuccessful.
- ladies and gentlemen, the waste crisis in campania has been a political headache for decades.
the priority now is to develop an integrated waste management plan, giving priority to waste reduction, reuse or recycling.
in this case, i believe that the campania crisis provides important lessons on waste management for all europeans, including lithuania.
i believe that reducing waste and managing it wisely are important environmental priorities for lithuania.
a report published by the european environment agency in december 2010 noted that the total amount of waste in lithuania increased compared to 2004, with municipal waste showing a particularly steady increase without major fluctuations in the indicators.
the construction and financing of waste recycling plants (co-financing from the national budget, eu and private funds) is more important than ever, as it is the only way to reduce the real damage already being done to the environment and to the public interest.
in this context, and in particular in the context of the development-cooperation nexus, the issue covers, but is not limited to, the following areas: poverty reduction, improvement of living and working conditions and job creation strategies; participation of migrants in the development of their countries of origin; cooperation in capacity building, in particular in the health and education sectors, to offset the negative impact of the brain drain from south africa on the sustainable development of south africa; and legal, fast and low-cost means of repatriating remittances from out-of-country persons.
the priority sectors include environmental protection, climate change and renewable energy, civil society, human and social development and protection of cultural heritage.
the priority sectors include carbon capture and storage, eco-industrial innovation, research and scholarship, human and social development, justice and home affairs, decent jobs and tripartite dialogue.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union.
i believe that new requirements and co2 limits will help to fight global warming, lower running costs through savings on fuel and boost innovation and the competitiveness of european car manufacturers.
at its meeting of 8 and 9 march 2007, the european council made a firm commitment to reduce overall greenhouse gas emissions in the community by at least 20% compared to 1990 levels by 2020, or by 30% if other developed countries commit to similar emission reductions and more economically advanced developing countries contribute appropriately to this target within their capabilities.
in order to achieve the necessary emission reductions, policies and measures at member state and union level should be implemented across all sectors of the union economy, not just the industrial and energy sectors.
road transport is the second largest greenhouse gas polluting sector in the union and its emissions, including those from light commercial vehicles, are continuously increasing.
if road transport emissions continue to rise, this could undermine efforts by other sectors to curb climate change.
until now, there has been no legislation in the eu on co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles, although the demand for this transport is increasing in the eu.
i think we have managed to agree with the council on a balanced document that will reduce co2 emissions and encourage the automotive sector to invest in new and less polluting technologies.
the average reduction in co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles was 0.4 to 0.5% per year between 2002 and 2007, but this increase in fuel efficiency was rendered meaningless by the increase in transport demand and the production of larger vehicles.
− i supported the provision that the light commercial vehicle sector should make the same effort to reduce co2 emissions as the passenger car sector.
this would allow manufacturers to bring new vehicles with improved co2 emissions to the market.
this would enable consumers to have access to more intelligent vehicles and to contribute more to reducing co2 emissions from vehicles.
the objective of this proposed legislation is to reduce co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles.
however, i doubt that this proposal will achieve the objective pursued, as there are serious concerns about whether the measures in question will achieve the original objective of preventing climate change, and whether the proposed targets and timetable are realistic, economically justified and do not reduce competitiveness in this sector.
− we need to reduce co2 emissions as much as possible, and it is therefore essential to set an appropriate emission limit for vehicles, taking into account the negative effects on the environment and human health.
therefore, before such important decisions are taken, detailed scientific studies should be carried out demonstrating that the introduction of speed limiters would significantly reduce co2 emissions.
a comprehensive system should be established to allow the union to set maximum permitted levels of radiation pollution in the event of a nuclear or other radiological accident which may cause significant contamination of food and feed by radioactive elements, in order to ensure a high level of protection of public health.
i agree that the permitted levels of radiation pollution should be reviewed regularly in order to take account of the latest international scientific developments and scientific advice and to eliminate existing differences in regulatory practice.
- i support the proposal for a council regulation laying down maximum permitted levels of radiation pollution in food and feed following a nuclear accident or any other case of radiation accident.
i support the proposal to apply the eu's core environmental protection principle 'the polluter pays' by ensuring an effective compensation mechanism in the event of a disaster, with particular attention to farmers who would suffer the most damage in this case.
with regard to the energy sector, it is the eu’s firm intention to ensure that the key principles enshrined in the energy charter treaty will also be part of the ongoing negotiations between the european union and the russian federation on the new treaty.
the relevant provisions should include investment protection for the energy sector and, in particular, a strong dispute settlement mechanism.
this approach would be without prejudice to the eu general assessment that the energy charter treaty continues to be a valuable multilateral instrument to govern international energy relations.
its unique feature is that it sets legally-binding rules on investment protection transit and that it contains provisions on dispute resolution in the energy sector.
the european union considers that russia’s renewed engagement in the energy charter process, as expressed in the last eu-russia summit, is very important and it will follow a constructive and open approach in that regard.
in this context, the eu welcomes the russian interest in a legally binding energy framework, following its recent proposal for a draft convention on ensuring international energy security.
the modernisation of the energy charter process would be the appropriate context for multilateral negotiations on this proposal.
when it comes to russia, we often hear about the expansion of russian companies in the european market, especially in the energy sector, but at the same time european investors face enormous difficulties when they want to invest in russia, especially in sectors that russia deems as strategic, such as the energy sector.
energy poverty remains a major problem and related challenges prevent people in the poorest regions of the world from improving their quality of life, earning a living and contributing to growth and productivity in general.
the energy strategies of the world banks have so far produced no tangible results.
in addition, support for fossil fuels remains higher than for renewable or clean energy sources.
the new strategy also requires a thorough assessment of the supervision and control of the financing provided, so that this support is used for energy projects that can provide long-term benefits and make a real contribution to the development of these regions and to the improvement of the quality of life of the people.
the proper implementation of these measures is currently hampered by overly complex administrative procedures and the european commission should facilitate the use of structural funds resources allocated to sme financing instruments, in particular to finance renewable funds to ensure guarantee schemes, avoiding the creation of structures that duplicate existing schemes.
it is therefore important to create an environment in which this can develop.
i supported this report and believe that new impetus must be given to the creation of strong, sustainable and secure european pension systems at national and eu level.
financial sustainability is important in reforming our pension systems, as well as ensuring adequate income.
it is impossible to achieve real sustainability without adequate pensions.
the balance of flexibility and security in the labour market supports the adaptability of the economy and thus contributes to sustainable, secure and fair pensions.
the second aspect is the close link between food and energy resources and their price relationship.
on the one hand, we are promoting the use of biofuels to combat climate change (and have even set mandatory quotas for their use), and on the other hand, the growing of biofuel crops on agricultural land that could also be used for food production is increasing food prices.
therefore, while tackling climate change is one of our priorities, we must find a way to do so without affecting food prices (for example, only land that will never be suitable for agricultural production will be used for biofuels).
the eu will provide a favourable business environment for growing, competitive eu companies to enter south korea, which offers many new opportunities for eu goods and services, increasing the volume of trade between companies and reducing export costs.
the agreement's strong focus on sustainable development is to be welcomed.
the danube region, which covers 115 million inhabitants and 14 european countries, both within and outside the european union, is an area where closer interaction between the various eu policies (cohesion, transport, economy, energy, environment, culture, education, agriculture, fisheries, development and neighbourhood) can be promoted.
it is important that the eu danube strategy could make a significant contribution to improving governance at all levels and to better involving partners and civil society in the danube region, and that its implementation would ensure prosperity, sustainable development, job creation and security in the region.
− i welcome the danube region strategy adopted by the european commission and support its action plan, which focuses on four areas (connecting the danube region, protecting the environment, ensuring prosperity and strengthening the danube region) and takes into account the need to improve mobility, energy security, social and economic development, cultural exchanges, security and civil protection in the danube region.
it is necessary to foster the danube cultural environment by promoting cultural dialogue, supporting university exchange programmes and youth projects based on international cooperation, strengthening sustainable tourism and preserving the historical and architectural heritage.
− i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because the energy strategy should address how ensuring access to energy services can help people to escape poverty while encouraging the transition to energy-efficient development.
the world bank should strive to follow the principle of private sector development in order to maximise the benefits for the poor in the fight against climate change.
a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis of energy supply options needs to take account of environmental and social factors at national and regional levels.
it is worth noting that although the world bank has recently increased its lending to finance renewable energy and energy efficiency initiatives, its overall energy portfolio continues to be dominated by fossil fuel loans.
the investment in fossil fuels is made with the participation of financial intermediaries and the bank does not provide this information in its annual settlement of the energy sector.
so developing countries are going to be tied to coal-based energy for decades to come.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on the world bank's energy strategy for developing countries.
energy needs in developing countries are increasing, which requires consideration of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources.
energy supply services must be reliable, affordable and equitably distributed across society in order to effectively combat poverty and reduce the rural-urban divide.
the world bank needs to diversify its energy portfolio and increase its lending to finance renewable energy and energy efficiency initiatives in response to the needs of developing countries.
i agree with the proposal that funding should primarily promote the combination of energy efficiency and renewable energy.
priority should be given to small decentralised energy projects and to ensuring access to energy resources for the population of developing countries.
the european parliament is convinced that the eu 2020 strategy should help europe recover from the crisis and strengthen its capacity to create jobs and to ensure smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, based on the five eu core objectives of promoting employment, improving conditions for innovation, research and technological development, tackling climate change and energy, improving education and promoting social inclusion, in particular by reducing poverty.
i believe that the actions of the europe 2020 strategy are crucial for the future prospects of all european citizens, as they ensure sustainable jobs, long-term economic growth and social progress, but i agree with the concerns expressed in the resolution that the weak governance structure of the europe 2020 strategy will not meet expectations.
the employment guidelines also aim to ensure that, in line with the europe 2020 strategy and the governance of the economy, employment objectives are met and sustainable economic growth and social progress are achieved.
it is also necessary to take account of the costs that european farmers incur in meeting the highest food safety, environmental, animal welfare and labour standards in the world.
given the dependence on food and energy security, there is a need to develop alternative sources of energy and to minimise food waste at eu and national level.
the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp) are to ensure the sustainable and resilient use of living aquatic resources and to ensure a high level of protection of the ecosystem.
i also supported the idea of issuing common european project bonds to finance large european infrastructure needs and structural projects in the context of the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy and other strategies such as the new strategy for the development of energy infrastructure, as well as other large-scale projects.
these projects must also contribute to the environmentally sustainable transformation of our economy, preparing the ground for a zero-carbon economy.
in addition, in order to maximise the benefits of the application of the carbon tax, it is necessary to set a threshold of minimum requirements for all member states, ensuring that the lowest income consumers are not the most burdened by the tax.
− the european union's agricultural sector creates significant added value for the european economy and plays a strategic role in meeting economic, social and environmental challenges.
the principle that the production methods used in third countries for products exported to the eu should ensure the same minimum standards of health, food safety, animal welfare, sustainable development and social standards for eu consumers as those applied to eu producers should be respected.
the world is facing increasing demand for food in the face of higher production costs, high volatility in agricultural markets, and declining arable land, water and energy resources.
a strong cap is crucial to preserve environmental sustainability and economic development in the eu's rural areas, where land is threatened by abandonment and rural depopulation.
the european agricultural sector creates clear added value for the european economy and plays a strategic role in the europe 2020 strategy, which is designed to address the economic, social and environmental challenges facing the eu internationally and as a major global player.
i believe that the commission's proposal to grant pakistan a three-year tariff quota at zero duty for exports of 100 000 ethanol per year to the eu will prevent direct and immediate aid and a negative impact on the eu renewable energy industry.
this would provide an opportunity to revitalise the sector, provide income for farmers and contribute to more sustainable farming in the eu.
the wider use of protein crops for sowing could have significant agricultural and environmental benefits and mitigate climate change.
in terms of climate change, leguminous species can contribute significantly to the reduction of greenhouse gases by absorbing and fixing nitrogen in the soil, thereby helping to reduce nitrogen fertilisers.
the production of protein crops not only mitigates the effects of climate change, but also has a positive impact on farmers' incomes.
only in specific areas or towns will we have the best understanding of the local problems, needs and social environment, so that the projects we implement are closer to those for whom they are intended.
of course, shale gas, as you mentioned, is not and cannot be the only solution to reducing energy dependence.
i believe that this strategy would help to address issues of common interest such as environmental protection and climate change, including the prevention and control of marine pollution from ships, transport and communications, research, innovation, culture, leisure and tourism, maritime services and training, and the fisheries and seafood sectors.
the strategy aims to make the baltic sea region environmentally sustainable, prosperous, attractive and accessible, and safe and secure.
the atlantic region has certain characteristics linked to a dynamic marine zone whose environment needs to be preserved and which is affected by climate change.
i believe that it is essential to adopt this strategy as a matter of urgency, which will help to solve the key problems of this region in the areas of transport, opening up and connecting energy networks, developing marine energy, urban and rural development, strengthening land-sea links and sea-inland waterways.
− i voted in favour of this document because, as is well known, the atlantic region has certain characteristics, namely: it is a dynamic maritime zone (for maritime transport, fisheries, marine energy, etc.
), an area whose vulnerable environment needs to be preserved and where the effects of climate change are evident, and it is also a remote region of the eu with accessibility and transport problems and small urban centres.
i believe it should also facilitate interaction with other eu policies, such as the trans-european transport networks, the common fisheries policy, the framework programme for research and technological development, energy policy and others.
− i support the resolution on a european atlantic strategy to contribute to the development of sustainable regional development.
it should be noted that effective territorial cooperation will promote the development of marine energy consumption and facilitate access to transport and electricity networks and links.
the global economic crisis has affected european industry and to overcome the effects of the crisis and address these challenges, the eu needs an industrial policy approach that combines competitiveness, sustainability and decent work, while boosting the economy, increasing employment, reducing environmental degradation and improving quality of life.
the unfinished single market, in areas such as energy, forces us to submit to external conditions that directly affect our competitiveness.
manufacturing industry growth is at its lowest level in two decades, and some european industries are experiencing a 'permanent crisis' due to unfair competition from third countries in the areas of labour relations, the environment and intellectual property protection.
an integrated and sustainable eu industrial policy should be based on the following key aspects: the need to develop an innovation chain linking research and practical application, to use resources more efficiently and to increase the production of clean energy.
they must be given a favourable business environment and a reduced administrative burden.
in the light of the tragic disaster at the fukushima nuclear power plant following the earthquake and tsunami, i would urge europe to consider the future of nuclear energy and to look for alternatives to energy production.
the eu energy commissioner also argues that europe should strive for a future without nuclear power plants.
work has already started, although the international environmental impact assessments of both plants are far from complete.
the eu should demand that these third countries take their responsibilities seriously and carefully observe international obligations and standards for nuclear energy.
the system also contributes to the promotion of sustainable development and good governance in developing countries that ratify and implement international conventions and protocols in the fields of human and labour rights, environmental protection, the fight against drugs and the fight against corruption.
the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 20 march 2008 and that the agreement was signed on 1 march 2008. it should also be noted that this new agreement has created opportunities for new investment and market access opportunities and enhanced cooperation in regulatory areas such as safety, security and the environment.
harmonised legislation would be a major contribution to promoting fair competition, in particular in the areas of state subsidies and social and environmental standards.
i believe that the commission should plan negotiations on a next stage agreement covering, inter alia, the following issues: further liberalisation of rights of way; additional opportunities for foreign investment; the impact of environmental measures and infrastructure constraints on the exercise of rights of way; better organisation of passenger rights policy to ensure the best possible level of protection for passengers.
the agreement includes the gradual granting of flight rights, investment opportunities and the development of intensive cooperation in various areas, including safety, security, social issues, consumer interests, environment, air traffic management, state aid and competition.
− i have endorsed this document as the agreement includes the gradual granting of flight rights, investment opportunities and the development of intensive cooperation in a wide range of areas, including safety, security, social issues, consumer interests, environment, air traffic management, state aid and competition.
− i support this resolution on relations between the european union and the gulf cooperation council, as the gulf region is currently seen as a newly emerging pole of the global economy, whose geopolitical environment is linked to security issues that affect not only the region but the whole world.
i support the rapporteur's call for the eu to share its experience in the gulf states in the deployment of renewable energy technologies.
the priority objectives of the eu 2020 strategy (promoting employment, public spending on innovation, research and technological development, tackling climate change and meeting energy objectives, improving education and promoting social inclusion) should help europe to recover from the crisis and to strengthen itself, ensuring progress, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the eu 2020 strategy should help europe recover from the crisis and strengthen itself by delivering smart, sustainable and inclusive growth underpinned by the five eu core objectives of promoting employment, improving conditions and public spending for innovation, research and technological development, meeting climate change and energy objectives, improving education and promoting social inclusion, in particular through poverty reduction.
japan has been hit by a major natural disaster, coupled with a major nuclear accident, the scale of which is still beyond realistic estimation and which will have consequences for human health and the environment for decades to come.
nuclear energy is not only about operating the power plants themselves, but also about storing nuclear waste that lasts for centuries.
the damage caused by the earthquake in japan to underground nuclear fuel storage facilities suggests that the prevailing view that landfilling is the safest way to dispose of waste is largely unfounded and that waste storage facilities could become a major source of danger to human health and the environment.
i believe that it is necessary to start active discussions within the eu and at international level in order to ensure the highest level of nuclear power plants and waste storage already in operation and to seriously consider the benefits and assess the potential risks of nuclear power plants planned for construction.
i would like to point out that the fukushima nuclear disaster is a cause for reflection on the situation and future of nuclear energy in europe.
for example, germany closed down its nuclear reactors built before 1980 immediately after the events in japan and continues to discuss new alternatives to nuclear energy in the light of research and expertise.
all countries using nuclear energy should check the safety of their nuclear power plants.
in addition, the sector is increasingly facing difficulties and new challenges such as competition, demographic change, climate change, environmental constraints, seasonal distribution of tourists, which need to be addressed both at the level of the european union and at the level of the member states.
it is therefore important to establish a new action programme to enhance the competitiveness of european tourism and to promote its sustainable growth.
the european union has indeed shown its solidarity by committing to provide the necessary financial support not only to finance the closure but also to contribute to the development of alternative energy projects and to the reduction of negative social impacts.
i believe that the european commission should play a greater coordinating role in ensuring the timely and safe closure of these nuclear reactors, the transparency of the use of funds, the promotion of alternative energy and the creation of new jobs in these countries.
i believe that priority should be given to the restoration of sound member state budgets, social justice and fiscal sustainability, which would allow for a faster recovery and stability of the member states' economies.
the member states of the european union face forced migration of people as a result of economic failures, impoverishment, human rights violations, environmental degradation, the growing gap between rich and poor countries, civil wars and political persecution.
the report highlights the many factors that contribute to the flow of migration, such as political, social, economic instability and even climate change, which are still not taken into account in the analysis of the causes of mass migration.
only by working together will the economies of the countries receiving the largest flows of migrants be protected from the negative effects of the crisis, as will the sustainability of labour markets and the prospects for development.
therefore, in order to ensure a stable situation for the agricultural population and to implement rural development policy, more attention needs to be paid to the creation of innovative and sustainable living and working conditions in rural areas.
i agree with the rapporteur that women's entrepreneurship and initiative should be promoted, in particular women's ownership rights, women's entrepreneurial networks and the financial sector conditions to facilitate access to investment and credit for women entrepreneurs in rural areas, thus giving them more opportunities to operate in the market and develop sustainable businesses.
lithuania is concerned about the delay in implementing key waste infrastructure projects, which is hampering the timely and efficient absorption of eu funds.
with their accession to the european union, lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria have made politically and economically complex commitments to close down their operating nuclear power plants, and the european union has committed to providing the necessary financial support for closure, construction and storage of nuclear waste and the development of energy projects.
i believe that such a european union solidarity concept can be effective in mitigating the negative economic consequences of early closure in the energy sector, but there are still a number of important issues that remain unresolved.
there is a risk that the decommissioning of nuclear power plants will be delayed due to lack of financial resources and may pose a threat to the environment and human health.
recognising the enormous financial burden of early shutdowns, and acting in solidarity, the eu has in turn committed to provide the appropriate additional financial support to bring these reactors to a standstill by the end of 2013. however, there is concern that major waste management infrastructure projects (spent fuel storage and waste repository project) are being implemented with significant delays.
a large part of the funds has been allocated to energy projects, but there is still a large need for decommissioning and insufficient national funding: the funds accumulated so far in the state ignalina nuclear decommissioning fund are insufficient.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of radioactive waste in the transport of dangerous goods.
this could be a new challenge for the eu, posing a real threat to our human health and the environment in the future.
in particular, efforts should be made to ensure that all decommissioning operations are carried out in a timely manner with the proper implementation of all necessary safety measures and with the avoidance of any minimal risk to human health and the environment.
we must make every effort to ensure that the dismantling and decommissioning of waste starts before 2013. i think it is appropriate to impose an obligation on the commission to submit a detailed financing plan to the european parliament and to establish the responsibility for the use of european union aid.
this aid should cover comprehensive assistance for the management of radioactive and hazardous waste.
the eu must provide more support for projects in the energy sector to mitigate the material consequences of the closure of the ignalina power plant.
this could include promoting the renewal of electricity capacity and energy efficiency measures.
therefore, i support the rapporteur's proposal to require member states to provide the commission with annual reports on the activities of their export credit agencies in relation to risk assessment and publication of off-balance-sheet measures and to provide for an obligation to report on social and environmental risk assessments.
the oecd agreement does not contain any requirements to ensure the fair determination of premiums, as it does not provide for any transparency requirements or minimum standards for the assessment of social and environmental risks.
it is proposed to introduce a procedure for transparency requirements relating to risk assessment and publication of off-balance-sheet items and to provide for an obligation to report on social and environmental risk assessments, and to require member states to provide the commission with annual reports on the activities of their export credit agencies relating to the items specified.
i therefore voted in favour of this document because it will set more standards for transparency and for assessing social and environmental risks.
we now have the conditions to make a real effort, not only at european level – that is now guaranteed – but also globally, working with the international atomic energy agency and other relevant international bodies.
the eu, in cooperation with the relevant international bodies, should ensure that the developers comply with the highest nuclear safety and environmental standards right from the beginning of the development stage and should allow international nuclear experts to assess both projects, especially the site selection criteria.
the eu could effectively prevent unsafe nuclear development by refusing to contract energy that will be produced in unclean nuclear power plant stations.
in this context member states have agreed specific objectives concerning health care systems, access to health care, quality of health and sustainability of health care policies.
i would like to stress that we must continue to work towards a secure and transparent environment for party financing.
the agreements with the african and pacific countries provide for a substantial part of the eu's financial contribution to be devoted to supporting this particular area of national fisheries policy, which is based on the principle of sustainability and the sound management of fisheries resources.
partnership agreements therefore commit to promoting responsible and sustainable fishing wherever eu vessels fish, and are based on a thorough assessment of existing stocks, and aim to ensure that fishing opportunities are based on sound scientific advice and that any threat of depletion of local stocks is eliminated.
the protocol will allow ukraine to participate in european union programmes relating to enterprise and entrepreneurship, energy and information and communication technologies.
ukraine will be given the opportunity to participate in eu programmes related to enterprise and entrepreneurship, energy and information and communication technologies.
− i voted in favour of the recommendation to allow ukraine to participate in current and future eu programmes, for example in the fields of entrepreneurship, energy, technology, communications.
as regards the negotiations on a free trade area, we must seek agreements on tariff proposals, energy taxation procedures and sustainable development.
the tourism sector faces major challenges such as global competition, demographic change, climate change and environmental constraints, the seasonal distribution of tourist flows and the increasing use of new information and communication technologies.
these studies are proposed to be carried out on a voluntary basis in the member states with a view to developing a system for collecting data on the environmental impact of tourism.
in addition to being used to monitor tourism policy, statistics in this area also have an impact on regional policy and sustainable development.
the main challenges facing the sector, such as global competition, demographic change, climate change and environmental constraints, the seasonal distribution of tourist flows and the increasing use of new information and communication technologies, need to be addressed.
the measures will thus increase the competitiveness of european tourism and promote its sustainable growth.
this is a prerequisite for the sustainable development of fisheries.
given that aquaculture is considered to be a sector of increasing importance (as reflected in the recently prepared, discussed and adopted report 'new impetus for the implementation of the european strategy for the sustainable development of aquaculture') and given the real growth prospects for it, the relevant provisions for the collection, management and use of data should also cover environmental and socio-economic data.
environmental and health monitoring and surveillance should be carried out accordingly.
this would help to make the sector more sustainable.
the sustainability of the fisheries sector is of particular importance at this time.
future eu policy should also promote sustainable and environmentally friendly investments (especially in the extractive industries) and quality working conditions in the companies invested in, and the eu should therefore support the current reform of the osce guidelines to promote responsible behaviour by multinational companies.
− i voted in favour of this report because of the need to develop an integrated and coherent investment policy that promotes quality investment and has a positive impact on global economic progress and sustainable development.
the common investment policy will promote quality investment, sustainable economic, social and environmental development and will have a positive impact on global economic progress.
− i have supported this report because the creation of a safe and transparent environment for the operation and funding of european political parties is a goal of a strong democracy.
i have supported this report because i believe that better political coordination at all levels is necessary to properly implement the priorities of the single market, which are aimed at promoting growth, competitiveness, a social market economy and sustainability in the union.
it is important to me that the revitalisation of the eu single market will stimulate job creation and create a business-friendly environment.
i would like to stress a very important aspect: the importance of the creation of a single energy market.
the common energy market is of particular importance for the eu's competitiveness, both internally and externally.
the creation of such a market would help to reduce external dependence and make energy prices accessible, fair and competitive for our citizens and businesses.
legislative and other initiatives in the field of energy should aim at ensuring energy supply through a variety of energy networks and sources, new renewable energy infrastructures and coordinated research and development of new energy sources.
the real development of the single market for the benefit of citizens, business and european competitiveness must be fostered by the creation of infrastructure projects with added value for europe as a whole, financed and managed at eu level, in order to ensure our energy independence and security.
i think that of all the measures discussed and mentioned in the document we adopted, two aspects are particularly important: reducing youth unemployment and lifelong learning and the creation and functioning of the single energy market.
the energy market is a new eu policy area.
smart energy networks will undoubtedly play a major role in the future economy, and we need to urgently and adequately focus and invest resources in their development and improvement.
the single market must be a platform for sustainable growth and increased employment, with citizens at its centre.
a social focus of the single market requires a sustainable restructuring of industry and continuous consultation with the social partners.
− i voted in favour of this report because i believe that to successfully revive the eu's single market and at the same time increase the eu's global competitiveness and job creation, a number of measures are needed to promote sustainable business growth and development.
the communication also addresses a range of other issues affecting citizens' daily lives, the competitiveness of businesses and, consequently, the creation of new jobs in europe the pursuit and promotion of research and new technologies, and the development and expansion of transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure.
the issue of lithuania's importance is also addressed, drawing attention to the need to upgrade the energy infrastructure in eastern european countries in order to successfully connect them to western european energy networks.
the accessibility of energy prices to consumers across europe is also emphasised in this area.
− i voted in favour of this report because, in order to successfully revive the eu's single market and at the same time increase the eu's global competitiveness and job creation, a number of measures are needed to promote sustainable business growth and development.
it is therefore essential to promote sustainable economic growth.
only sustainable growth guarantees the creation of sustainable jobs.
innovation provides the basis for stronger and more sustainable growth and job creation.
the single market must become a better environment for their business, which will help them to expand their international activities, improve their access to capital markets and remove administrative and tax obstacles.
when the whole world was watching the dramatic developments in fukushima, on 15 march the belarus government and the russian state-owned energy company rosatom signed a contract under which rosatom will have to finish the nuclear plant in belarus by 2018. russia is also preparing a usd 6 billion envelope to belarus to finance this project.
so the belarus authorities have been defiant about the need to properly inform belarus’s neighbours about the planned project, and the project as it stands clearly violates the espoo convention on environmental impact assessment.
i voted against the resolution as a whole because, in voting on paragraph 5 of the resolution, the ep majority supported the second part of the resolution, which calls for a moratorium on the development of nuclear energy and the construction of new nuclear power plants in the european union.
otherwise, i would have voted against my country's energy strategy, which is aimed at energy independence.
the resolution on the eu's baltic sea strategy and the role of macro-regions in the future cohesion policy states that, in view of the planned development of nuclear energy in the baltic sea region, eu countries must adhere to the highest safety and environmental standards and the ec must monitor and control the observance of the same approach and international conventions in neighbouring countries close to the eu's external borders.
nuclear power plants built at the eu's external borders must comply with international nuclear safety and environmental standards.
the importance of energy efficiency and energy saving, renewable and sustainable energy, and the deployment of european-wide electricity grids has increased in particular today.
it is also important to have a smart grid that can operate by drawing energy from decentralised energy production facilities.
in addition to the existing difficulties, the situation in the least developed countries has been further exacerbated by the recent global financial, food security, climate change and energy crises.
i believe that iceland's accession to the eu would increase the union's ability to play a more active and constructive role in northern europe and the arctic, thus contributing to multilateral governance and sustainable policy-making in the region.
iceland can also make a valuable contribution to eu environmental and energy policy, with its experience in the use of renewable energy sources, in particular geothermal energy, environmental protection and the fight against climate change.
iceland can make a valuable contribution to eu environment and energy policy through its experience in the use of renewable energy sources, in particular geothermal energy, environmental protection and the fight against climate change.
the accession of iceland to the eu would enhance the union's ability to play a more active and constructive role in northern europe and the arctic, thus contributing to multilateral governance and sustainable policy-making in the region.
further reform of the judiciary is necessary to ensure its professionalism, efficiency and independence from political pressure, to step up the fight against corruption and to improve the business environment.
the priorities of the eastern partnership consist of the development of democracy, good governance and stability, economic integration and convergence with eu policies, in particular in the areas of environmental protection, climate change and energy security.
− i voted in favour of this resolution because the overhaul of the eastern neighbourhood policy addresses the following key challenges: democratic processes, good governance and stability, economic integration, environmental protection, climate change and energy security.
− i voted in favour of this resolution because the revision of the eastern neighbourhood policy addresses the following key challenges: democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, a market economy, sustainable development and good governance.
in addition, 'project bonds' are supported, not only to improve the credit risk rating of bonds issued by companies under the europe 2020 strategy, but also to finance european transport, energy and information technology infrastructures and to make the economy more environmentally friendly.
these 'project bonds' could have a positive impact on the availability of capital for sustainable investments in growth and jobs, complementing national and cohesion fund investments.
− i voted in favour of this report and the discharge for the european environment agency for the financial year 2009. the court of auditors assessed the agency's 2009 financial statements as reliable and the financial operations on which they are based as legal and regular.
the agency shall provide reliable and independent information on environmental matters to all union institutions, member states and policy-making bodies.
the agency needs to improve its communication methods in order to increase the frequency with which its findings are presented through the media and to encourage public debate on important environmental issues.
− i have endorsed this report because the objective of this agreement is to establish cooperation to ensure the integrated protection of the ecosystem and the sustainable development of the prespa park area, including the development of integrated river basin management plans in line with international and european union standards.
the prespa park area is a natural area of international importance due to its geomorphological, ecological and cultural importance and its importance in terms of biodiversity.
for these reasons, the three countries signed, with the eu's participation, on 2 february 2010 an agreement on the protection and sustainable development of the prespa park area, which also requires the consent of the european parliament.
− i voted in favour of this document as the objective of this agreement is to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing through the implementation of effective port state measures, thereby ensuring the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and marine ecosystems.
illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing poses a serious threat to the sustainability of lithuanian fisheries.
it depletes fish stocks, destroys the marine environment and puts honest fishermen at a disadvantage.
according to the pew environment group, lithuanian fishermen are losing more than eur 1.1 million a year to undeclared fishing.
it is regrettable that in its examination of the implementation of the 2009 budget, the court has again decided to focus more on energy and research policy than on transport policy.
at present, only the european council can decide to change this situation (and save some eur 160 million a year and significantly reduce the carbon dioxide emissions resulting from parliament's activities).
− i voted in favour of this report and in favour of the discharge for the implementation of iter and the budget of the european joint undertaking for fusion energy for the financial year 2009. according to the information provided by the court of auditors, the company's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and the financial operations carried out on the basis of them are legal and regular.
the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy is in the early stages of its activities and has not yet fully implemented its internal control systems and financial reporting system for the financial year 2009. it is also necessary to recognise that there is a start-up period for the joint undertaking and that the under-spending is mainly due to the under-implementation of the euratom fusion programme, as mentioned in the court's 2008 report.
i support the provision of eur 46 million in financial assistance to georgia, which will reduce the financial vulnerability of the economy in the short term and at the same time support reforms aimed at a more sustainable balance of payments and a more stable budgetary position.
in order to enhance the sustainability of this assistance, the commission should actively contribute to its proper absorption, in particular through measures to promote economic and financial integration into the eu, in order to contribute to the acceleration of the conclusion of a comprehensive and complete free trade agreement between the eu and georgia.
however, in the case of accidents at such facilities, the damage to the environment and to people does not stop at national borders.
in their case, even the environmental impact assessment was not properly carried out, all concerns were not addressed, and a system of compensation for environmental damage was not established.
also that, through the mediation of international organisations, atena, the espo convention secretariat, the project promoters provide clear and reasoned answers without delay on the choice of sites, environmental impact, compensation and evacuation plans.
we have been told for years that nuclear energy is the cleanest and safest, but in the event of a disaster, we see that the consequences are devastating, that they will be felt for generations, and that the cost of such consequences is incalculable.
for that we will do the prudent work and then come to our authorising environment, to the council and to parliament, for your approval of the approach we are proposing to fill gaps.
− both agriculture and forestry can, of course, play an important role in achieving the eu’s climate objectives, and non-co2 greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture are actually included in the eu’s effort sharing mechanism, but emissions and removals of co2 related to land use, land-use change and forestry (what we call lulucf) are not part of the current reduction commitment as adopted back in the 2008 in the climate and energy package.
inclusion could strengthen the environmental integrity of our climate commitments, ensuring that all emissions and removals are covered, while enhancing the visibility of efforts by farmers and foresters to increase sinks through sustainable land-use management.
the current cap includes instruments that address climate change, mainly through the multiple co-benefits between agri-environmental policies and climate action.
pillar one provides income support to farmers who have to respect cross-compliance – a concept that includes baseline obligations, some of which are relevant to climate action.
rural development policy in pillar two makes more targeted climate-change measures available to member states.
the 2008 health check reconfirmed climate change as one of the major challenges to be addressed, and already measures in relation to forestry – for example, afforestation – can be supported under the rural development policy.
a reformed cap with a greener first pillar, introducing non-contractual and annual environmental actions that go beyond cross-compliance, and a second pillar more focused on climate action, supported by a professional farm advisory service, could be tailored towards helping farmers to manage their land-use systems so as to contribute to climate action (mitigation), and also become less vulnerable to climate change (adaptation).
it thus becomes a much more tangible and more concrete option for farmers to move in the direction of doing something for the climate, for water quality, or whatever, so that we get more value for the subsidies that we give to agriculture.
in particular, the consultation of all commission departments allows for consideration of gender equality aspects of all legislative proposals and other initiatives, including in relation to climate change.
the commission recognises the serious social impact upon women of climate change, as well as the important role of women in combating climate change.
the commission, back in october 2009, called for there to be a platform for women to make their voices heard, in particular as agents in the fight against climate change.
in this respect, in the strategy for equality between women and men 2010-2015, the commission has designated the development of indicators in the area of women and the environment among the priorities of the future work of the european gender equality institute.
we also understand that in the first half of next year, the danish presidency wishes to develop indicators in this field with a particular focus on climate change.
so climate change and women is very much on the agenda.
a couple of years ago the commission announced that the main security threat now is climate change and that mankind has approximately 10 years in which to make the changes reversible.
i personally am of the opinion that the economic crisis, revolutions in north africa and now fukushima have distracted attention from the fight against climate change.
we also need reliable chemical tests to confirm the hygiene and environmental criteria of the textiles we produce.
other potential benefits include remote health diagnostics, smart energy networks and increased political accountability at local level.
− i voted in favour of this document because the financial sector should respond to the needs of the real economy, help to promote sustainable growth and demonstrate the highest degree of social responsibility.
at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that future trade policy is conducted in accordance with the objectives of the european union, including binding commitments on social and environmental standards, at all stages of the negotiations.
however, the report points out that investment and trade in services must be included in discussions on trade with japan in order to ensure that further market opening does not conflict with either european or japanese rules on public services and environmental and cultural diversity.
the eu-japan fta would not only benefit from increased bilateral trade in goods and services, but also foster cooperation on eu horizontal priorities such as cooperation on innovation, regulatory cooperation and the fight against market abuse, as well as cooperation on a wide range of environmental issues, among others.
deforestation and climate change the european parliament has endorsed the provisions set out in this green paper, but it is necessary to strengthen the eu's forest strategy, and this strengthening should be aimed at improving the management and conservation of forests, that this strategy should be directed both towards forest protection and towards the use of sustainable timber resources, as forests offer opportunities to address climate change.
this policy should be implemented in order to ensure the sustainable development of the forestry sector and contribute to improving the standard of living of european citizens and to promoting the development of rural areas.
eu mice are facing major threats to their survival, including climate change, new pests, increased fire risks (especially in the mediterranean region) and human activities (increasing demand for wood biomass for energy), which are leading to their extinction.
i agree that the commission and the member states need to do more to achieve the environmental and quality of life objectives of the eu action plan for the mushroom, which is currently lagging behind.
the eu forestry strategy and the eu plan for mouse should also be updated to include the climate change dimension and broader forest protection issues.
− i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's response to the commission's green paper on the launch of a public consultation on forest protection and forest preparedness for climate change across the european union.
in its communication, parliament welcomes the commission's green paper and calls for an update of the eu forestry strategy, while taking due account of the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and incorporating the climate change aspect and other broader forest protection issues.
parliament also reaffirmed its view that more resources should be allocated to forest protection measures under the rural development pillar of the cap, especially in the light of the new challenges posed by climate change.
among other possible sources of funding, the report also proposes to consider the possibility of setting up payments to companies for ecosystem functions that contribute to the conservation of biodiversity and the protection of forests.
linked to climate change.
the proposals include: long-term competitiveness, environmental improvement and protection, improvement of the quality of life, promotion of coordination and communication.
we must do everything we can to conserve and use this resource sustainably, so that our future generations can enjoy it, and to contribute to reducing environmental pollution.
there is an urgent need to address global issues of concern to all eu citizens, such as the fight against terrorism, organised crime, pandemics and climate change, cybersecurity, the achievement of the millennium development goals and poverty eradication, energy security, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, peaceful conflict resolution and disarmament, migration management and the promotion of human rights and civil liberties, drawing attention to the need to better monitor the use of eu funds under the european court of auditors special report no 15/2009.
the eu must also choose its foreign policy priorities correctly: a focus on the south while neglecting our eastern borders is not a sustainable policy.
these developments are driven by the growing power of international actors in emerging economies, increasing interdependence linked to economic and financial challenges, environmental degradation and climate change, dwindling energy and other resources, and interlinked security challenges.
in an unstable global environment, with the economic and financial crisis, the european union must strengthen its strategic autonomy, uphold its values, defend its interests and protect its citizens.
− i voted in favour of this report because the international system is undergoing rapid and fundamental change, driven by the growing power of international actors in emerging economies, increasing interdependence linked to economic and financial problems, environmental degradation and climate change, dwindling energy and other resources and interrelated security challenges.
in a volatile global environment of economic and financial crisis, the european union is called upon to strengthen its strategic autonomy, to promote its values, to defend its interests and to protect its citizens to develop a common vision of the key challenges and threats, to concentrate its capabilities and resources to address these challenges effectively, and thus to contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security, including effective respect for the principle of multilateralism.
global challenges such as financial markets, energy security, the fight against poverty, climate change and human rights violations require joint and coordinated action.
− i voted in favour of the report because the eu's membership of multilateral organisations brings additional benefits in areas where it has exclusive or shared competence: economic and trade, environmental policy, development aid, security and defence policy.
much has been done to improve its environment and simplify administrative requirements, for example with the adoption of the directive on electronic invoicing or the directive on late payment.
key priorities such as financing, simplification of regulatory frameworks, improvement of the business environment are not being implemented in a systematic and consistent manner.
and the business environment varies widely across member states.
i hope that this review of the small business act will help us to better understand and assess where we need to put more effort in order to create a better working small business environment in practice.
on the one hand, we need to address the problems of the crisis immediately, and on the other, we need to take action now to find the appropriate response and to meet our long-term commitments to address challenges such as climate change, energy security, food security, an ageing society and others.
young people must be given opportunities to develop competencies, skills and knowledge that they can use in the future to actively contribute to the growth and sustainable future of our european union.
investing in education is essential for sustainable growth and development, and even during the economic crisis, funding for youth programmes and education must be seen not as a cost today but as an investment in europe's future.
the assessments carried out show that many of mauritania's fish stocks are fully exploited or depleted and the commission should therefore discuss with mauritania the possibility of drawing up long-term fisheries management plans covering all fishing authorisations granted by the mauritanian authorities to the national fleet and to third country fleets, in order to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
i agree to increase the aid ceiling of eur 30 000 to eur 60 000 per undertaking for a transitional period of three years, while ensuring that environmental and social sustainability are not harmed and that competition between member states is not distorted.
the european fisheries fund (eff) should continue to provide support to improve the selection and adaptation of fishing gear on the basis of safety, environmental protection and/or fuel economy requirements, in particular for small coastal fishing companies and traditional fishermen.
in my view, the commission must urgently come forward with proposals for investment in new technologies at european and national level to increase the energy efficiency of fishing vessels and thus reduce fishermen's dependence on fossil fuels.
the small business act of 2008 was a significant political step to improve the business environment for smes, to ensure better and simpler regulation and to facilitate market access.
member states should implement all provisions of the small business act as soon as possible in order to create a consistent and transparent business environment.
on the other hand, resource efficiency alone is not enough in general, a sustainable approach to the environment is necessary at any stage of business development.
i believe that a successful strategy to promote innovative smes should not be based on subsidies alone, but also on the creation of a business environment in which smes have more freedom and better access to different sources of funding.
innovation is particularly important in tackling global challenges such as climate change, energy security, food security and many others where innovation and strengthening the current scientific and technological base are needed.
the eu's vibrant cultural climate makes it an attractive place for businesses to operate and for people to live.
preserving and enhancing europe's attractiveness in a globally interconnected and competitive environment is not a luxury, it is a necessity.
the proposal on heavy goods vehicle charges for the use of certain infrastructures aims to set transport prices in a fair way so that they more accurately reflect the real costs of air and noise pollution, congestion and climate change impacts from heavy goods vehicle use.
it is also a fact that road transport problems, such as air and noise pollution and traffic congestion, are becoming more serious.
measures to internalise external costs are expected to increase economic efficiency and reduce negative environmental impacts.
the fair toll system proposed in the euromatrica directive will help us to make more sustainable use of our scarce resources.
firstly, to achieve our goals of a more sustainable green transport system and thus implement the polluter-pays principle.
the directive will authorise member states to charge tolls on lorries not only for infrastructure costs, as is the case now, but also for noise and air pollution.
as is well known, the transport sector plays a crucial role in ensuring mobility and social and economic development in europe, and improving transport infrastructure is essential to address the challenges of economic growth and sustainability.
we are all concerned about the effects of climate change, environmental protection, various health and social welfare issues, which are inextricably linked to the rational use of transport.
i agree that the application of the polluter pays principle and the protection of the public interest encourage and should encourage measures aimed in particular at reducing environmental pollution, noise, damage to the landscape, the social costs of health damage, all of which generate high economic costs for the whole community and therefore for all european citizens.
following the lifting of restrictions on imports originating in the member states by the world trade organisation in 2005, the european union should also simplify existing legislation in order to create a more business-friendly and transparent environment, in particular by simplifying customs formalities to be completed by importers of certain textile products whose products are released for free circulation in the community.
− i voted in favour of this report because its main objective is to repeal the eu regulation currently in force, which imposes additional requirements for proving the origin of textile products imported into the eu, thus simplifying the existing legislation and creating a more business-friendly and transparent environment.
− i have endorsed this document as the commission's proposal to repeal council regulation (ec) no 1541/98 and to amend council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 was drawn up in the light of the eu's political commitment to simplify existing legislation in order to create a more business-friendly and transparent environment, in particular by simplifying customs formalities for certain importers of textile products whose products are released for free circulation in the community and classified in chapter xi of the combined nomenclature.
egnos and galileo can be of great help in managing road traffic and an information campaign in this sector is therefore necessary to make better use of its possibilities in terms of charging, e-signalling, reserving safe parking places for trucks after connecting to the network and real-time monitoring, and to increase road transport safety and environmental friendliness.
it is essential that european satellite navigation programmes are adapted to different types of transport services and applied throughout europe, rather than in certain countries, as the effective implementation of those programmes would increase the efficiency of freight transport and help to solve many transport safety and environmental problems.
comprehensive air services agreements with neighbouring countries or significant global partners could be of great benefit to passengers, cargo operators and airlines as a means of accessing markets and harmonising legislation in order to promote fair competition, including on issues related to state subsidies, social and environmental standards.
− i voted in favour of this report because i agree that comprehensive eu air transport agreements with third countries would only benefit passengers, freight operators and airlines in many aspects: safety, maintaining environmental standards and promoting a favourable business environment.
it is important that each agreement mitigates or removes market access and investment restrictions, maintains and enhances social and environmental standards, ensures adequate data and privacy protection, establishes mutual recognition of safety standards and maintains a high level of passenger rights.
i support the reduction of environmental pollution and the implementation of the polluter pays principle in road transport.
i also supported the proposal that the revenue from the 'eurovignette' tax be used for investments in road infrastructure and for the improvement of transport sustainability.
the promotion of sustainable transport is an essential element of the common transport policy.
to this end, the impact of transport on climate change and its negative impacts, in particular congestion, which impedes mobility, and air and noise pollution, which damages health and the environment, should be reduced.
it is good that we are committed today to reducing climate change, that we are finally applying the polluter pays principle to road transport.
- i do not support the proposal to tax heavy goods vehicles on the basis of noise and pollution.
the charge will take into account not only the cost of road infrastructure, the pollution category of the car and the driving time, but also the level of pollution, noise and congestion.
− ladies and gentlemen, any new eu rules on heavy goods vehicle taxation must strike a balance between the environmental needs and economic interests of the new member states.
i am aware of the pollution issues mentioned in this report and i take them very seriously, but additional taxes on air pollution and noise will not be the answer.
the european environmental policy can only be properly assessed if reliable data are available.
the most important eu-wide policy initiatives on environmental bills to date are the sixth environment action programme, the eu sustainable development strategy and a number of sectoral policy initiatives related to the cardiff process, covering areas such as climate change, sustainable transport, nature and biodiversity, health and the environment, the use of natural resources, waste management and the international dimension of sustainable development.
in its conclusions of june 2006, the european council called on the european union and the member states to integrate the main aspects of sustainable development into national accounts.
the system of national accounts should therefore be complemented by integrated environmental and economic accounting with data that are fully consistent.
− environmental economic accounts should help to assess policies, in particular when they provide data on the environmental impact of economic activities.
the relevant information can be an important basis for environmental policy decisions.
in its conclusions of june 2006, the european council called on the eu and the member states to integrate the main aspects of sustainable development into national accounts.
the commission's proposal for a european environmental economic accounts also makes an important contribution to the development of this policy concept.
the european environmental policy can only be properly assessed if reliable data are available.
in order to improve policy evaluation capabilities, the environmental data available at european level should be expanded to include additional information fairly quickly.
good quality environmental and economic data would allow better monitoring of waste recycling and prevention, emissions and climate change, and sustainable consumption and production.
i abstained in voting in favour of this document because i do not believe that this data can be collected through the environmental accounting system alone, it is necessary that each country does so and that the system is fully harmonised at eu level.
− the european environmental policy can only be properly and appropriately assessed if reliable data are available.
recycling, emissions, climate change, sustainable consumption and production need to be monitored continuously to ensure progress in these areas at european level.
the environmental economic accounts system is one of the tools to collect and compile data on expenditure, taxes by type of economic activity and on the country's material flow accounts.
however, the mandatory nature of this system creates an additional administrative burden and the introduction of such a system requires a proper assessment of the impact of its application, the setting of objectives and clear guidelines for the further development of environmental economic accounts.
we must create a secure and single european energy market, ensure the interconnection of all europe by means of transport networks, and eliminate the differences that still exist between the different regions of the european union.
i believe that effective impact assessment independence must become a general principle applicable to all types of impact assessment, and this is particularly true of environmental impact assessment.
the implementation of this principle should also be ensured in the environmental impact assessment directive, which is likely to be revised in the near future.
i am glad that the proposals in the environment committee, the amendments to which i have tabled, reflect precisely the independent assessment of environmental impact, which is really extremely important.
under article 21 of the treaty on european union, the eu is formally committed to an effective multilateral partnership, with a strong united nations at its core, as it is essential to tackle global challenges such as climate change and environmental degradation, the universality and indivisibility of human rights, poverty reduction and development for all, the consequences of demographic change and migration, and transnational organised crime.
in addition, it touches on the crucial aspects of strengthening the role of the international criminal court and the international criminal justice system, promoting accountability and ending impunity, strengthening crisis prevention units and increasing their effectiveness in the implementation of the united nations development programme, in order to make the united nations a global leader in crisis prevention and recovery, the eu and the un need to cooperate closely in the field of civil and military crisis management, in particular in humanitarian aid operations, the fundamental transformation of the international atomic energy agency (iaea) by eliminating its dual functions of monitoring and promoting the use of nuclear energy, and the limitation of the iaea's responsibilities for controlling the nuclear industry and monitoring compliance with the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, as well as other important aspects that i support and support in principle.
it has also addressed solid and far-reaching suggestions for the eu in various areas on the international level, such as engaging with the eu’s strategic partners within the un system, ensuring the important role of the eeas, enhancing peace, security and justice, and combating climate change.
its aim is to enable the european union to respond to the major societal challenges that concern all member states and that cannot be tackled by a single member state (ageing populations and health, energy and water supply or food security, sustainable development, combating climate change, etc.)
it is necessary to strengthen, promote and secure funding for the development of research in the european union by significantly increasing the related costs from 2013 onwards, as such increased funding, ideally through budgetary increases, should foster sustainable growth and competition through excellence.
− dear colleagues, research and innovation are important for ensuring sustainable and inclusive growth in lithuania.
r & d spending in europe is low compared to other global powers due to a lack of private investment and a favourable environment for innovation.
the ratings issued by credit rating agencies serve a number of useful functions: they provide information on the creditworthiness of issuers in a global environment.
non-compliance with key international social standards is a form of social and environmental dumping that is damaging to european businesses and workers.
alongside social standards, corporate social responsibility should contribute to sustainable growth, but companies should not avoid dialogue with workers and should respect and promote decent employment relations, encourage workers' participation through consultation and information, collective bargaining, the development of their professional skills and lifelong learning, adhere to safety standards at work, promote equality between men and women, create an enabling environment for the social partners to anticipate and manage labour market developments, including restructuring, improve the quality of work, integrate and protect vulnerable groups of workers such as young people, older people, disabled people and migrants.
the opportunity and ability to learn and work in an international environment is an important prerequisite for a successful professional life in a globalised economy.
there is an increasing need for workers who are mobile, flexible and experienced in an international environment.
− the opportunity and ability to learn and work in an international environment is an important prerequisite for a successful professional life in a globalised economy.
there is an increasing need for workers who are mobile, flexible and experienced in an international environment.
the key issues listed in the europe 2020 strategy for smart growth (promoting knowledge, innovation, education and the digital society), sustainable growth (production with better resource efficiency and thus increased competitiveness) and inclusive growth (increasing employment, improving skills and fighting poverty) also need to be addressed through specific measures in the field of vocational training and education at european union level and in the member states.
it is also essential to create a favourable business environment for companies that cooperate in the development and implementation of vocational training programmes.
further simplification of the structure of the common external financing instruments, its adaptation to new challenges such as climate change and the definition of the appropriate external dimension of eu internal policies are important aspects to be taken into account.
i believe that support to emerging economies, which promotes sustainable growth, should continue to focus on strengthening fiscal policies in partner countries and encouraging domestic revenue mobilisation, which should help reduce poverty and aid dependency.
this prior impact assessment of proposed eu legislation was further strengthened by the lisbon treaty, which included provisions on the social and environmental impact of any proposed legislation.
it should be noted that gdp is measured in terms of production and does not reflect ecological sustainability, resource efficiency, social inclusion or social progress in general.
i therefore support the resolution's view that additional indicators for the assessment of medium and long-term economic and social progress should be developed and that clear and measurable indicators should be established to provide information on climate change, biodiversity, resource efficiency and social inclusion.
in terms of gdp, it does not reflect today's concerns about environmental sustainability, resource efficiency, social inclusion and social progress in general.
i support the commission's proposal to develop additional principles for the assessment of economic and social progress in the medium and long term and to establish clear and measurable indicators that provide information on climate change, biodiversity, resource efficiency and social inclusion.
however, gdp is measured in terms of production and does not reflect ecological sustainability, resource efficiency, social inclusion or social progress in general.
i believe that we need clear and measurable indicators that provide information on climate change, biodiversity, resource efficiency and social inclusion, and that we need to develop indicators that better reflect the level of households: income, consumption and well-being.
there is also a need to measure the quality of life of societies, as the achievement and maintenance of quality of life requires consideration of such important and widely recognised factors as health, education, culture, employment, housing, environmental conditions, etc.
it does not reflect environmental sustainability, resource efficiency, social inclusion and social progress.
− i voted in favour of this important resolution on investing in the future: a new multiannual financial framework (mff) for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe.
these include research and innovation, the fight against unemployment, poverty and exclusion, adequate preparedness for demographic change, responsible use of natural resources, internal and external security, regional and agricultural policies, energy and transport infrastructure development.
− the eu's financial perspective for 2014-2020 calls for adequate funding for areas that promote growth and successful development, such as research and innovation, the fight against unemployment, poverty and exclusion, adequate preparedness for demographic change, the responsible use of natural resources, internal and external security, regional and agricultural policies, energy and transport infrastructure development.
strong focus on poverty and unemployment reduction, industry and energy, and the creation of a knowledge-based society.
today we are talking and debating a very specific, country-specific issue, but nevertheless environmental impact assessment is a rather complex and complex issue both at national and international levels.
perhaps the biggest problem is the crisis of public confidence in environmental impact assessments, i.e.
another problem is the concept of post-project evaluation, where certain items are not mentioned, the environmental impact analysis, and certain side effects are revealed later.
this should naturally apply to environmental law as well, and in the review of the eia directive we should focus on this very issue.
the lithuanian side of the european union's external border is to be the site of, or more specifically, is the site of, disproportionately large nuclear power plants, whose safety and environmental impact are the subject of considerable debate.
we must ensure that not only the member states of the european union but also neighbouring countries, in particular russia and belarus, adhere to the highest safety and environmental standards.
radioactive pollution does not cross national borders.
the environmental impact assessment has not yet been completed, the works have already begun, the criteria for selecting the site of a nuclear power plant have not yet been clarified, the possible alternative sites have not been analysed, and the general evacuation plans have not been prepared.
belarus is not ready to develop nuclear energy in general, and the russian authorities not only do not respond to the questions of neighboring states, but also ignore the requests of their own citizens to hold consultations.
we must not use the money of the citizens of the european union to support unsafe nuclear energy.
there is no doubt that the consequences of a nuclear power plant disaster are long-term, both for the environment and for people, and do not stop at national borders.
the european commission responded swiftly and appropriately to the disaster: it proposed stress tests for all nuclear power plants, it sought tougher nuclear safety standards, and regular audits would strengthen nuclear safety and public confidence in nuclear energy.
in its relations with the russian federation, the eu must speak with one voice and show solidarity, in particular on the security of energy supply.
russia's energy policy towards the eu member states and the countries of the common neighbourhood will demonstrate russia's genuine commitment to modernisation and democratisation.
i support the european parliament's demand that the supply of natural resources should not be used as a political tool, but that the principles of interdependence and transparency, and equal access to markets, infrastructure and investment, should be the basis for cooperation on energy security.
the importance of security of energy supply is emphasised and russia's energy policy towards the member states and the countries of the common neighbourhood will demonstrate russia's genuine commitment to the path of modernisation and democratisation.
energy supply and nuclear security are another basis for strong and stable cooperation.
innovation, research, environmental and energy challenges, and help to create european added value.
the management of spent fuel and nuclear waste is of paramount importance for the safety of the environment and of both man and society.
i therefore urge the council to take account of the opinion of the european parliament, which is playing an increasingly important role in environmental matters, when adopting the directive.
closure work includes the disposal of spent fuel and nuclear waste.
in particular, agriculture is an area with a large and direct impact on environmental protection.
it is therefore important that both in the definition of direct support models and in supporting rural development, priority should be given to sustainable agriculture and to various aspects of animal welfare, including organic farming.
the fishing for seiners does not threaten the biological sustainability of the resources used.
the new protocol also meets the objectives of the fisheries partnership agreement to strengthen cooperation and foster partnership between the two countries, thereby developing a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible use of fisheries resources in the seychelles' fishing zone.
the agreement strengthens cooperation between the parties and promotes partnerships and scientific cooperation in the fields of responsible fishing and sustainable fisheries.
− the new protocol is of clear benefit to both parties in terms of strengthening partnership and cooperation in the fisheries sector to ensure responsible and sustainable fishing.
it is also essential to ensure that fishing activities meet the same sustainability criteria as those applied to fisheries in eu waters.
given the country's extremely difficult situation, this agreement must at least minimally contribute to the economic well-being of the country, promote job creation, environmental and social sustainability, and conservation and restoration of fisheries resources.
increasing bilateral trade between andorra and the eu in a more secure, standardised environment will benefit europe as a whole.
− i voted in favour of this report because cohesion policy remains relevant, since it makes a major contribution to improving the social and economic environment.
cohesion policy also aims to reduce disparities in the development of europe's regions, to help achieve modern and sustainable growth, and to demonstrate european solidarity.
it is clear that europe's regions have a number of economic, social and environmental differences.
member states and regions are therefore encouraged to facilitate policy implementation by addressing these problems and in particular by adapting the legal framework on state aid, public procurement and environmental rules and by pursuing institutional reforms.
− cohesion policy a guarantee of improving our social and economic environment, reducing regional disparities in development, and promoting modern and sustainable growth.
− i have supported this document as it recommends that the urban dimension of cohesion policy focuses on three objectives: firstly, to help urban areas develop their core physical infrastructure, which is of particular importance for growth, in order to take full advantage of their potential contribution to european economic growth, economic diversification and energy and environmental sustainability, in particular to maintain and improve air quality in urban centres without damaging rivers.
secondly, to help urban areas modernise their economic, social and environmental dimensions through smart investment in infrastructure and services, based on technological progress and closely linked to the specific needs of the regions; thirdly, to restore urban areas through the reuse of industrial sites and contaminated land, and to take account of the need to ensure urban-rural links in order to promote inclusive development in line with the europe 2020 strategy.
− cities are a catalyst for economic growth, entrepreneurship and the creation of new, sustainable jobs.
the implementation of intelligent transport systems would help to address the problems of congestion, energy efficiency, public sector safety.
− the rapporteur rightly notes that member states need to make greater efforts to make sustainable urban development a strategic priority.
although almost 70% of lithuania's population lives in cities and their suburbs, my country lacks a clear, integrated and sustainable approach.
territorial cooperation should aim to remove physical, administrative and regulatory barriers between territories and regions and to mitigate the impact of borders between territories and regions, so that they can jointly address common territorial (services, infrastructure, urbanisation and spatial planning), common (globalisation, climate change), economic or social challenges.
cohesion policy also provides support for less developed regions and disadvantaged groups, which contributes to the balanced and sustainable development of the european union.
it should be noted that cohesion policy ensures the sustainable and balanced development of the european union, which means that it must remain independent and that it must receive increased funding.
the rules on budgetary discipline should be strengthened, in particular with a significantly greater focus on the level and evolution of debt and overall sustainability.
i think it is appropriate to provide in the medium-term budgetary systems for procedures to give an opinion on the impact of the proposed measures on the long-term sustainability of public finances.
as the commission stresses in its explanatory memorandum, the system needs to be strengthened 'in order to consolidate macroeconomic stability and the sustainability of public finances, which are a prerequisite for long-term output and employment growth'.
we must make every effort to achieve macroeconomic stability and public finance sustainability.
− i have endorsed this document as it relates to emissions from agricultural tractors and only makes quantitative amendments to directive 2000/25/ec without changing the environmental objectives of the directive, the methodology or the period of validity.
directive 2000/25/ec on emissions from agricultural tractors lays down maximum levels of carbon monoxide (co), hydrocarbons (hc), nitrogen oxides (nox) and particulate matter (pm) which may be emitted in combination with the exhaust gases of diesel engines of tractors.
the directive sets maximum emissions for each type of tractor, taking account of engine power, and aims to ensure a gradual reduction in emissions in stages.
it is important to support the adequate economic development of the industry concerned and at the same time to contribute to environmental protection.
in order to achieve the environmental objectives related to emissions, i believe that the emissions of tractors should be determined in relation to the power of the tractor engine.
such regulation will create favourable conditions for the economic development of the industry, while preserving the current environmental protection programme.
− i voted for this report because the responsible management and disposal of waste harmful to the environment and to humans is of vital importance.
in this report, the european parliament gave its general approval to the commission's proposal for a directive establishing an eu legal framework for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste.
the legal framework proposed by the commission aims to oblige member states to establish national programmes for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste.
the european parliament's report proposes the following improvements to the text of the future directive: it establishes the so-called principle of reversibility, which would allow access even to waste buried by deep geological burial, for example if recycling methods for such waste were developed in the future.
the communication also proposes to impose stricter financial obligations on member states, obliging them to allocate the costs of possible waste management, as well as to finance reserves, and proposes a system for managing regional waste management projects.
− i voted in favour of this document because it sets out the eu legal framework for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste.
the proposal sets out specific requirements to ensure that member states establish a national regulatory and organisational framework and develop appropriate national programmes for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, from generation to disposal.
the management of spent fuel and nuclear waste is of paramount importance for both environmental and public safety.
− every effort should be made to adopt the safest solutions for nuclear fuel and radioactive waste management.
the fukushima nuclear accident has shown that the disposal of radioactive waste remains a complex, risky process with potentially devastating negative consequences.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
it is essential that member states establish a national regulatory and organisational framework and draw up programmes for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste from generation to disposal.
in the interests of safety and economy, i believe that member states may share spent fuel and radioactive waste facilities, but only if both parties agree.
− i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree that demographic change, climate change and the objectives of territorial cohesion policy require a review and modernisation of the eu's common agricultural policy.
the resolution proposes to introduce a system of incentives for farmers to develop organic and sustainable agriculture through the efficient management of limited resources and the reduction of the use of means of production.
− i have endorsed this document because a sustainable, productive and competitive agricultural sector in europe can make an important contribution to achieving the objectives of the cap and the europe 2020 strategy as laid down in the treaties, and can also help to address new policy challenges such as food, energy and raw material security, the fight against climate change, the protection of the environment and biodiversity, health and demographic change in the eu.
it is necessary to maintain a strong and sustainable cap in the future by providing budgetary allocations to achieve ambitious objectives while facing new challenges.
− a sustainable, productive and competitive agricultural sector is the key to food security, natural resources and territorial balance.
we must therefore aim to create a strong and sustainable cap that responds to the changing nature of the agricultural industry in all member states.
the cap must help us achieve a competitive, sustainable farming and an active rural economy.
– mr president, after dealing with nuclear energy we are now broaching another sensitive subject: gmos.
the rapporteur, corinne lepage, has managed this delicate task very skilfully and prepared a balanced report, which received broad support during the committee on the environment, public health and food safety vote.
the inclusion of complementary environmental reasons – as well as a list of social and economic grounds for the restriction or prohibition of gmos by member states – will make this report more legally solid.
european citizens are also strongly opposed to the release of gmos into the environment .
indeed, we still lack reliable, objective and unbiased data on the long-term environmental and human health impacts of genetically modified crops, and we must therefore respect the will of our citizens and allow member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory.
the majority of new projects that improve the quality of people, whether in the environment, transport or social sphere, are implemented in lithuania with eu funds.
i welcome the report by my colleague, sosa wagner, which is well balanced and comprehensive, and which also reflects important aspects such as the unconditional nature of the environmental impact assessment of new projects.
the call for third countries to respect international environmental and other commitments in the development of new energy projects is also not forgotten.
however, i would stress that in order to achieve an integrated and competitive european internal energy market by 2014 at the latest, it is not enough to implement legislation and ensure regulation properly.
the full and efficient functioning of the eu internal market is not possible without the full integration of the energy islands into the eu energy system through new infrastructure connections.
in some food and energy products, such effects would not be desirable.
consumers and depositaries need to be confident that they are operating in a stable financial environment.
− i have endorsed this document because it is a proposal for a european society that is strongly opposed to the release of gmos into the environment and their use in agriculture.
moreover, there is not yet enough information and reliable scientific evidence to say that gm products and the food produced from them are completely safe for the environment and human health.
− it is essential that we work together to fight the release of gmos into the environment and their use in agriculture.
in all cases, all factors shall be duly justified and the measures applied shall be scientifically justified or supported by arguments relating to risk management or other justified factors arising from the release of the gmo into the environment.
i believe that studies should be carried out as soon as possible to determine the long-term environmental impact of gm crops and their possible effects on non-target organisms.
− i voted in favour of this report because, in the absence of a global agreement to ensure a level playing field for measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, some european industries will continue to face unfair competition unless specific measures are maintained for sectors facing carbon leakage.
progress at the global level is the only way to tackle climate change, and the european union must continue to encourage its partners to deliver on their commitments.
the european commission, for its part, should reorganise the eu's climate diplomacy, working with the newly established european external action service and the high representative of the union to develop a clearer eu climate policy, giving a new impetus to international climate negotiations and incentives to partners around the world by setting binding greenhouse gas reduction targets.
i agree with the european parliament's call for the commission to come forward as soon as possible with a proposal to increase europe's climate change target to 30% of greenhouse gas emissions by 2020.
in writing.
future policy must be geared to growth and innovation, but it will be sustainable if regional policy objectives are linked to common european objectives relating to innovation, research and environmental challenges, and if the practical experience of richer regions is taken into account.
i agree that cohesion policy must continue to focus on reducing regional disparities and on the harmonious and sustainable development of all regions of the union, regardless of the member state in which they are located.
these trends have a positive impact on social protection and investment in the environment.
european structural policy is a major contribution to the fight against the economic and financial crisis, and is generally aimed at innovation and the removal of obstacles, at encouraging european regions to improve their infrastructure, at increasing the regional innovation potential, and at promoting environmentally sustainable development.
poverty has many dimensions, such as human, economic, social and cultural, gender, environmental and political, and all of them need to be taken into account in eu development policy.
the european union has so far, in the framework of the partnership agreements, raised human rights issues more frequently than social, economic and cultural rights, but the aid agreements must take account of all these aspects in order to contribute to sustainable social and economic growth in developing countries.
− i voted in favour of the report on energy infrastructure priorities for 2020 and beyond.
it is essential that all peis should contribute to achieving eu energy policy objectives – the completion of the internal market, the promotion of energy efficiency and renewable energy, and the enhancement of security of supply.
the treaty of lisbon provides, for the first time in the history of the eu, a concrete legal framework for the development of an eu energy policy, the implementation of which would promote the interconnection of energy networks across national and regional borders between member states, which is necessary to achieve the other objectives of eu energy policy and solidarity, namely the functioning of the energy products market, energy efficiency and the use of energy from renewable sources, security of supply and diversification of energy sources and means of supply.
the eu's key energy challenges include combating climate change, strengthening energy security and self-sufficiency by reducing overall energy consumption and fossil fuel imports and dependence, diversifying energy suppliers and sources, promoting a competitive internal market for energy products and ensuring access to affordable, sustainable, safe and efficient energy for all.
i agree to the swift, proper and full implementation of the existing legislation and to the ensuring of the regulation as required by the third internal energy market package and to the presentation of the necessary new proposals in this area with a view to the establishment of an integrated and competitive european internal energy market by 2014 at the latest.
− i voted in favour of this report because the eu's energy infrastructure needs to be improved and modernised in order to achieve the europe 2020 objectives and to connect an increasing share of renewable energy sources to the mix by 2020. in addition, advanced and large-scale interconnections, interconnections and expansion of gas supply networks should be developed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase security of supply.
it is important to note that a common eu approach is needed to improve europe's energy infrastructure, as individual member states cannot achieve this goal alone.
it should be noted that the environmental benefits are not necessarily achieved in countries that make the necessary investments, and therefore long-term objectives need to be considered in order to ensure that the energy infrastructure currently planned can last for several decades.
i agree with the european parliament's position that the existing directives and the provisions of the so-called third energy internal market package should be used to draw all the necessary conclusions and then to provide the basis for planning and investing in the european grid.
better european union financial instruments should also be developed to support the efforts of regional and local authorities to invest in sustainable energy production.
− i voted in favour of the document because our focus is on energy infrastructure, which the commission considers to be outdated and poorly connected.
they are necessary to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, to ensure security of supply and price stability for consumers, and to develop a common energy market that ensures access to energy sources at affordable prices for all businesses and citizens.
we faced many pressing issues, including the incredible growth of wind power in the north and baltic sea regions, the huge potential for renewable energy in southern europe and north africa, the problems of large-scale electricity storage, the need to charge electric vehicles, and the transportation and storage of co2 and hydrogen.
i think we need to: identify the infrastructure needed; to establish criteria for determining which project should be classified as being of european interest, taking into account the sustainable development of the different regions; ensure that these projects are implemented within a reasonable time frame, by developing ways to resolve the problems of conflicting permitting and licensing procedures in the member states, by ensuring discussion, information and public participation; improve the allocation of funds; secure financing that attracts and encourages private investment.
− the infrastructure currently used in the eu is technologically outdated, has too few interconnections, and does not ensure an adequate and secure energy supply.
in this context, continued cooperation at national and european level is essential for the successful completion of the internal energy market, the implementation of infrastructure projects and the elimination of energy islands.
only by working together will we be able to implement cross-border projects, to create efficient and smart links between local and regional energy resources and large energy networks.
we need to maximise the efficiency of eu funds in implementing priority energy infrastructure projects.
in addition, subsidies for energy infrastructure and research and technological development should be allocated on a geographical basis.
the priorities for the selection of projects of european interest need to be set in order to achieve the eu's energy and climate change objectives.
the implementation of an energy infrastructure project should involve the widest possible public participation at an early stage of development, in order to ensure the widest possible dissemination of information and exchange of good practices.
provision of high quality universal services such as healthcare, education and childcare, and essential communication services such as transport, energy and telecommunications, to ensure a healthy, active and cohesive society.
the implementation of eu development policy should thus aim at removing obstacles to development, such as dumping of agricultural products, the illicit debt burden, capital flight and unfair trade, and at creating an international environment conducive to the fight against poverty, the guarantee of adequate income and livelihoods, and the enjoyment of fundamental human rights, including social and economic rights.
indeed, eu development policy should aim to remove obstacles to development such as agricultural dumping, the illicit debt burden, capital flight and unfair trade, and to create an international environment conducive to the fight against poverty, the guarantee of adequate income and livelihoods, and the enjoyment of fundamental human rights, including social and economic rights.
it is also necessary to combat inequalities, including gender inequalities, as gender equality, the political and economic empowerment of women and the enjoyment of women's human rights play a major role in reducing poverty and ensuring sustainable development.
it should also be stressed that any policy to promote economic growth cannot be pursued without a policy to promote social and environmental standards and to implement social protection measures.
some of the issues mentioned in the commission's green paper on a development policy that supports inclusive and sustainable development.
poverty has many dimensions, not only economic but also human, social and cultural, political, protection, environmental, and these must be taken into account in the eu's development policy.
we must also define our specific objectives, vision, ambitions and the appropriate measures, especially where inclusive and sustainable development is concerned.
i think that the developed world needs to take a leadership role in creating a low-carbon global economy.
it is essential that member states take appropriate action to reduce emissions.
in particular, i would like to mention that an important step has been taken to secure funding for important energy and transport projects across europe, to revise agricultural policy and make it fairer and more transparent.
on the one hand, too much information would make it difficult for the consumer to become a nutritionist, on the other hand, providing a lot of information (and in a readable font) would require a lot of space, which would mean an increase in packaging and containers (consumers often complain that they have to buy a product in large packages they do not need), and therefore an increase in packaging waste, and the costs of packaging would inevitably be passed on to the consumer.
poland, which has taken over the presidency from hungary, will have a formidable task to find a solution to an ambitious agreement on the new financial perspective for 2014-2020. today's europe is full of challenges and opportunities, including the future of energy, the defence of the free movement of people in the schengen area and the development of the eastern european neighbourhood policy, and i therefore support poland's key priorities in the field of energy security and the strong focus on the eastern partnership of the european union.
ensuring effective eu-wide broadband provision is crucial to delivering the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, in order to promote fast, sustainable, inclusive and territorial cohesion-based economic growth, which will improve employment, strengthen european competitiveness and facilitate research and innovation.
− i voted in favour of the document, as ensuring effective broadband services across the eu is crucial to achieving the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, in order to promote fast, sustainable, inclusive and territorial cohesive growth, which will improve employment, strengthen european competitiveness, create a more favourable environment for research and innovation, and enable all regions, cities, municipalities and groups of society to access the digital space by enabling them to benefit from new digital technologies for public services.
the commission and the member states to develop european and national programmes to enable and finance broadband access for all eu citizens at speeds of at least 30 mbps and access for all training and research institutions to broadband infrastructure by 2015 the implementation of these measures would contribute to rapid, sustainable, inclusive and territorial cohesion economic growth.
media literacy should be an important part of formal education in order to teach children and minors to behave responsibly in an online environment.
this will ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market and reduce packaging waste.
the eu must face up to increasing competition in the world and new challenges such as energy security.
in the light of the commitments made in the field of energy and the objective of achieving a single energy market by 2014, i support the call for the commission to monitor the implementation of eu legislation in the fields of energy and energy efficiency and to adopt without delay the appropriate implementing measures and to submit any new proposals needed to achieve these objectives.
we expect the commission's forthcoming proposals for cap reform to be guided by the principle of sustainability, in order to ensure the long-term viability of european food production, while improving farmers' competitiveness, fairly distributing direct payments and promoting rural development, preserving the diversity of farming methods and production and avoiding red tape.
the eu needs to be able to achieve more with less, and the prioritisation of eu spending should help bring about competitive, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the crisis has clearly demonstrated the need for a transition to a genuine economic governance of the european union, consisting of systematic policies to ensure sustainable growth, stable and quality employment, fiscal discipline, the correction of excessive macroeconomic imbalances, the competitiveness and efficiency of the european economy and stronger regulation and monitoring of financial markets, as well as an appropriate response to the financial crisis.
− i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to take measures to adapt the working environment to the needs of older people, to ensure health care for all older people and to provide them with the necessary social support.
the european year for active ageing 2012 will build a sustainable culture of active ageing in europe, based on a multi-age society and generational solidarity.
the document also stresses the need for a paradigm shift, which should be based on genuine democratic consolidation, based on endogenous, sustainable, inclusive and population-friendly development, respecting the rule of law and fundamental human rights and freedoms.
the eu must help create an environment conducive to the development of democratic societies.
we should be bound not only by economic and trade interdependence but also by common goals of sustainable cooperation in the neighbourhood and around the world.
it is generally accepted that the most readily available source of raw materials is waste.
unfortunately, although the average rate of waste recycling in the european union is constantly increasing, there are still a number of member states where a significant proportion of waste ends up in landfills.
more attention to recycling and recovering waste would not only help to solve the eu's raw materials problems, but would also have significant benefits for national economies.
i therefore call on both the commission and the member states to take a more active approach to the recovery of raw materials from waste.
first, pollution does not exist within national borders.
we also need to reach an agreement with third countries on compensation for environmental damage in the event of an accident occurring in the jurisdiction of those third countries.
secondly, the environmental risks are not only related to the extraction of resources, but also to their transport and the operation of the transport infrastructure, whether it be tankers or pipelines.
− the commission proposal for the repeal of a number of acts, submitted to the european parliament and the council under the ordinary legislative procedure, is in line with the european union's political commitment to improve the quality of legislation and simplify existing legislation in order to create a better and clearer legal environment for businesses.
i voted in favour of this amendment to the directive on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment, which would bring together all the existing provisions in this field into a single document.
− without debate, we agreed to the codified version of the legislation governing certain aspects of the environmental impact assessment procedure.
on the other hand, the continuous emergence of cases (starting with the nord stream gas pipeline and ending with projects of local importance in the member states) suggests that we will have to seriously discuss some essential aspects of the environmental impact assessment process in the future, such as ensuring the independence of the process from its clients, expanding the concept of the public concerned.
this increases the risk of irreversible loss of biodiversity and global warming.
the international tropical timber organisation will continue to address deforestation and illegal logging, but more can be done to strengthen enforcement of forestry legislation, for example, the eu should adopt strong sanctions such as fines proportionate to the environmental damage, the value of the timber or timber products involved, as well as the tax losses and economic damage caused by the infringement; confiscation of the timber and timber products involved; and the emergency suspension of the marketing authorisation.
the high rate of deforestation is threatening irreversible biodiversity loss and global warming.
the main objective of this agreement is therefore to promote the development and diversification of international trade in tropical timber and to ensure sustainable forest management.
the 2006 agreement aims, inter alia, to promote the development and diversification of international trade in tropical timber originating in sustainable forests from which timber is legally harvested and to promote the management of sustainable forests producing tropical timber.
− i support this resolution as this agreement covers both international trade and environmental aspects and provides a legal basis for cooperation between tropical timber producing and consuming countries.
it is important to note that the renewal of the agreement is to focus on the protection and sustainable management of tropical forests and the restoration of deforested areas.
in order to fill this gap and in view of the fact that both iez and high seas are fished, the australian, chilean and new zealand governments decided in 2006 to open international consultations with a view to establishing a regional fisheries management organisation for the south pacific (rfmvo) with the objective of working together to fill the gap in the conservation and management of highly migratory fish stocks and the protection of the biodiversity of the high seas of the south pacific, without prejudice to international law and in line with good practice.
in order to fill this gap and in view of the fact that both iez and high seas are fished, the australian, chilean and new zealand governments decided in 2006 to open international consultations with a view to establishing a regional fisheries management organisation for the south pacific (rfmvo) with the objective of working together to fill the gap in the conservation and management of highly migratory fish stocks and the protection of the biodiversity of the high seas of the south pacific, without prejudice to international law and in line with good practice.
the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking (the 'kev joint undertaking') was established on 30 may 2008. fuel cell and hydrogen (fh) technologies represent a promising, long-term energy option that can be used across all sectors of the economy and has a wide range of benefits in terms of energy security, transport, the environment and the sustainable use of resources.
they are expected to be crucial in the eu's transition to a low-carbon society and will contribute to the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by more than 85% by 2050. in order to exploit the full potential of the technologies of the ets, it is still necessary to ensure continuous and sustained public support, together with appropriate policy measures to overcome the remaining technological, economic and institutional barriers to the wide commercial adoption of those technologies.
− one of the steps to combat climate change is to promote alternative energy and, in particular, green transport, such as electric cars.
in order to accelerate the development of electric vehicles in the european union and thus reduce co2 emissions, it is important to make this mode of transport as attractive as possible to consumers.
i have endorsed this important document and the proposals contained therein, which establish reporting requirements to control the reliability of the financial operations of european export credit agencies, introduce a procedure for transparency requirements and provide for an obligation to report on social and environmental risk assessments.
these resources are crucial for the transition to a low-carbon economy and for mitigating future climate change.
the eu needs a strong industrial base, which, as it becomes greener, is highly dependent on the supply of the right raw materials to make the transition to a low-carbon economy and to remain competitive.
it is therefore necessary to develop a new approach to non-energy and non-agricultural raw materials, in particular those identified as being of primary importance, in order to address the issue in an innovative and innovation-driven way, in order to ultimately avoid a game in which there can only be winners and losers.
alongside its industrial innovation strategy, which aims to reduce consumption and increase recycling in addition to the sustainable local potential of the eu, the eu will of course continue to rely on external suppliers of its raw materials.
it is important to note that fair access to raw materials and stable prices will ensure the competitiveness of eu industry, environmental efficiency and innovation.
it is time for the eu to develop an industrial innovation strategy to promote sustainability and security of energy supply.
the future of eu industry depends heavily on non-energy, non-agricultural raw materials.
− i voted in favour of this report because the ecological balance and fish stocks in the black sea have been severely reduced.
restoring the ecosystem and increasing fish stocks is only possible through active cooperation between the eu and the black sea states.
− i voted in favour of this document because of the need to create a strong, stable and sustainable fisheries sector at european level, and in particular for the black sea, to provide for a specific policy to protect fish stocks, improve their status and ensure that the black sea fisheries sector is adapted to the specificities of the black sea region.
the fisheries sector must be managed in a manner that ensures ecosystem suitability and sustainability, the development of legal fisheries and the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
sustainable development must also be promoted through fisheries management, cutting-edge research and technology, data collection and the assessment of fisheries resources in the black sea region.
i believe that new ways and opportunities should be explored to ensure the sustainable and responsible use of fisheries resources and to promote sustainable, competitive and diverse aquaculture in this region.
only by working together can we ensure that the european fisheries sector is strong, stable and sustainable.
the tragedy of the 2010 oil spill in the gulf of mexico was the largest in the world, with catastrophic consequences for people and the environment.
strict safety control requirements should be applied to the oil extraction industry worldwide to avoid future harmful effects and to ensure environmental protection.
'safety evidence' is a risk-based, site-specific approach whereby operators must demonstrate to the relevant national health, safety and environmental authorities that all hazards have been addressed and the necessary control measures have been put in place.
women entrepreneurs face an even greater risk because they have to overcome discrimination in a traditionally male environment.
the higher and more recently speculative prices of energy commodities are causing frustration in both the business community and household consumers.
for these reasons, and in order to put energy suppliers in a position where they cannot abuse their dominant position, i support the provisions in the regulation that penalties for infringements should take account not only of the seriousness of the infringements and the profits made, but also of the damage caused to consumers.
i think that this should include the various possible disruptions in energy supply which could arise from political differences between individual countries.
the energy market integrity and transparency regulation is of particular importance to the european union in the context of the process of liberalising the gas and electricity markets.
in order to ensure the functioning of a single and transparent energy market in the european union, we need to ensure that the rules we adopt apply equally and without exception to all actors in the eu energy market, regardless of their true origin.
i therefore welcome this report and call on the commission to further improve the rules governing the energy market in the european union.
the commission proposal for a regulation (remit energy market integrity and transparency regulation) is an eu legal framework to prevent market abuse and manipulation in the energy sector (gas and electricity).
unfair practices in the wholesale energy market affect the price level.
such practices may result in significant price volatility, increase energy prices for end-users (citizens and businesses) and reduce the confidence of potential investors in energy infrastructure projects.
transparency of energy markets is a necessary condition for further integration of the eu energy market, which should bring great benefits to consumers.
the regulation prohibits market abuse consisting of trading on the basis of inside information and market manipulation in the wholesale energy products (electricity and gas).
− i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to prevent the concealment of energy production capacity and to prevent market abuse and manipulation in the energy sector.
otherwise, there could be significant price fluctuations, higher energy costs for end-users and reduced investment in energy infrastructure.
in some energy markets, conduct that undermines the integrity of the market is not currently prohibited in full and therefore requires strict action.
− i voted in favour of this document because it aims to prevent market abuse and manipulation in the energy sector (gas and electricity).
the regulation prohibits market abuse, which consists of trading on the basis of information which has not been made public (articles 1 (1) and 3) and market manipulation (articles 2 (2) and 4) in the wholesale energy products (electricity and gas).
the main body for monitoring the transactions market is the recently established agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer).
article 7 of the regulation requires market participants to provide the agency with data on their transactions in wholesale energy products.
− energy is a highly relevant topic in the eu and especially for its energy island, of which lithuania is a part.
increased eu involvement in the management of energy networks should protect eu citizens from sudden price spikes and ensure greater stability in the supply of energy resources to consumers.
the document also calls for the identification of the energy laws of the countries concerned, thereby facilitating trade in this sector.
the implementation of these proposals would bring lithuania and all the baltic states into the eu's single energy grid and reduce their vulnerability to energy blackmail.
all this would also encourage internal competition between energy suppliers, which should have a positive impact on the price of electricity and gas on the market.
− i have endorsed this document as aiming to create new trade opportunities, strengthen multilateral trade rules, address the problems associated with the current imbalances in the trading system and use trade for sustainable development, while underlining the importance of economic integration of developing countries, especially the least developed countries, in the belief that a multilateral system based on fairer rules will facilitate fair and free trade for the development of all continents.
in this report, parliament assesses the activities of the committee on petitions in 2010 and notes that, as in the past, the majority of petitions received last year related to the environment, fundamental rights, the internal market and justice, with a large geographical share of petitions relating to certain member states.
− i became aware of the committee's work before becoming a member of the european parliament when, in 2007/08, i represented several tens of thousands of eu citizens who petitioned the ep on the environmental impact of the nord stream gas pipeline.
i therefore support the call in the report for the commission to ensure the proper implementation of the environmental impact assessment (eia) directive, the strategic environmental assessment (sea) directive, the habitats directive and the birds directive in the member states on the basis of the recommendations of the responsible parliamentary committee.
− i voted in favour of this report because tackling one of the biggest problems facing the world today - climate change - requires a change in the way energy is consumed and produced.
it is scientifically proven that anthropogenic factors environmental factors, formed or strongly influenced by human activities contribute to climate change.
urgent action is needed to limit the global average surface temperature rise to 2oc, to reduce ozone depletion, to reduce glacial melting and to start developing a strategy to reduce carbon dioxide emissions.
several urgent strategies have been developed to reduce emissions of sulphur and gases and to phase out the production and use of harmful chemical compounds over the next 5-10 years.
the european union has also introduced a regulation which will ensure that vehicle emissions are strictly controlled at all times.
− i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that not only in the eu but also globally, strict implementation of air pollution regulations and the deployment of available technologies to reduce nox and co emissions would reduce anthropogenic tropospheric ozone, which is the cause of the greenhouse effect.
i believe that a comprehensive european climate policy is needed, taking into account all the factors of warming and the alternatives to mitigating its effects.
in addition to considering how to reduce co2 emissions, attention should also be given to strategies that can respond to climate change in the fastest possible way.
− the european union has set itself ambitious targets to become a world leader in the fight against climate change.
however, we must be aware that climate change is not only caused by carbon dioxide but also by anthropogenic pollutants.
unfortunately, without a coherent strategy to reduce these pollutants, even by reducing co2, we are contributing to anthropogenic emissions.
the eu's renewable energy strategy calls for at least a fifth of energy to come from renewable sources over the next 20 years.
we therefore need to consider the need for a single eu-wide strategy for all pollutants that affect the environment.
− i voted in favour of this resolution, which seeks to establish a comprehensive approach to anthropogenic pollutants that affect the climate.
the commission and the member states must therefore take immediate action and develop as soon as possible a comprehensive european climate change policy and strategies to respond to climate change problems in an operational manner.
in view of the dangers of these pollutants, technologies that can radically reduce emissions of soot and gases must be used in the eu and the use of the 'kirsk and burner' method must be banned.
tangible efforts towards negotiations and sustainable peace with the palestinian authority have to be made, and one of the areas in which visible progress has to be made is in stopping the expansion of settlements.
negotiations on various aspects of cooperation have already been successfully concluded, but it was agreed that by the end of 2011 negotiations should also begin on enhanced cooperation in the area of large-scale free trade, while assessing the impact of such agreements on economic development and the environment.
the head of the transparency international for europe chapter said that lithuania still had a long way to go to work in a corruption-free environment.
the solution to the famine in the horn of africa, and in particular in somalia, will only be found if the underlying political, economic, environmental and security challenges are addressed by local actors and the international community.
the international community must take on the challenge of long-term investment in agriculture as the region's main source of food and income, developing sustainable infrastructure, ensuring access to land for small farmers, thereby supporting the local market and providing people with acceptable daily food.
the most important risk factors for noncommunicable diseases are those known to man: tobacco use, an unbalanced diet that can lead to overweight, high blood pressure, exposure to environmental pollutants, excessive alcohol consumption and physical inactivity.
− i have endorsed this document as it calls for the eu and its member states to support the five key commitments and include them in the political statement to be drawn up at the un high level meeting on noncommunicable diseases in september 2011, namely to reduce mortality from noncommunicable diseases by 25% by 2025, as proposed by the who, to take interventions to achieve cost-effectiveness and cost-saving measures, including faster implementation of the who framework convention on tobacco control, to improve access to healthy food and promote healthy diets, including reducing the consumption of salt, sugar, saturated fats and fatty acid transisomers in society, to take effective measures to combat alcohol abuse and to promote more active physical activity throughout society, to consider the overall impact of environmental pollution, to monitor the reduction of morbidity and mortality from noncommunicable diseases by 2025, to develop a mechanism to monitor the overall trends in noncommunicable diseases, to promote a high level of accountability and to develop a high level of accountability of all stakeholders at the level of the organisation, to ensure that the main trends of noncommunicable diseases are taken into account at the 2014 meeting.
prevention and public information on tobacco, alcohol consumption, overeating, physical inactivity and environmental pollution must be given priority.
it is important to encourage people from an early age to take an interest in and care for their health and the environment.
on the one hand, individual risk factors remain individual, but environmental pollution is a common concern for all of us.
regardless of whether the palestinian people obtain their legitimate statehood in the coming months or some time later, the state of their economy will be a crucial factor which will determine whether there can be sustainable peace between palestine and israel.
having said this, in development policy we have clearly seen the need to go towards more sustainable agricultural investment.
i believe that the right answer is that one of the pillars of eu development policy should be to support sustainable agriculture, with a special focus on smallholder farmers, who are in the majority women.
regardless of whether the palestinian people obtain their legitimate statehood in the coming months or some years later, the state of their economy will be a crucial factor which will determine whether there can be sustainable peace between palestine and israel.
the european commission, acting under the authority of the council, has negotiated with the republic of cape verde the renewal of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of cape verde of 19 december 2006. the protocol aims to establish cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde with a view to establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the fishing zone of the republic of cape verde, taking into account the interests of both parties.
the eu is experiencing an economic, social and environmental crisis, and research, education and innovation are crucial tools for economic recovery and job creation.
i agree that europe needs to make better use of its great potential in research, technology and innovation and contribute to solving global challenges such as demographic change, sustainable use of resources and the creation of a stable and resilient economic base.
it is understood that research and innovation are particularly important tools for strengthening the strategy for growth that aims to achieve sustainable and inclusive growth.
the green paper welcomes the emphasis on the complexity of r & d and innovation funding and its compatibility with the financial instruments of the cohesion policy, but it also calls for a stronger focus on key eu challenges such as climate change, energy efficiency and the development of green technologies.
− dear colleagues, research and innovation are important to ensure sustainable and inclusive growth in lithuania.
lithuania needs a more attractive and dynamic research climate.
− european schools were created so that the children of the european institutions' staff who are required to live and work in a different cultural environment can receive education in their mother tongue.
− i voted in favour of this report because the european union's cohesion policy is the most important instrument for promoting the eu's sustainable development, but despite progress in reducing disparities in the level of development between regions, their levels of economic, social and territorial development still vary widely.
in the future, this disaster is likely to increase due to climate change and the depletion of natural gas resources, and it is therefore necessary to take concrete action as soon as possible.
therefore, in addition to a rapid response to these disasters, the rescue of human lives, property and the environment requires excellent coordination between the forces of neighbouring countries.
this would not only ensure a more efficient use of the funds allocated to the civil protection sector, but also a more effective protection of our environment, citizens and their property.
in recent years, europe has faced a number of challenges in tourism, such as the global economic crisis, climate change, demographic change in europe, etc.
− i voted in favour of this report because of the many challenges that tourism in europe has recently faced, such as the global economic and financial crisis, the competitiveness of other destinations outside the european union and the diversity of tourist attractions on offer, climate change and seasonal fluctuations in tourism activities, demographic changes in europe, the growing impact of information and communication technologies and many unforeseen circumstances.
the report also emphasizes the need for sustainable development in tourism from this point forward, keeping in mind the interests of future generations.
the challenge of re-evaluating freshwater management in the context of climate change is without doubt a major global challenge.
dams change the use of rivers and natural resources, have a major impact on biodiversity and river ecosystems, and most importantly, threaten human communities.
one of the real envy, brazil is currently in the process of getting permission to build the third largest dam in the world, but its construction will cause and do immeasurable damage to the amazon ecosystem and to all of its biodiversity.
in addition, dam reservoirs pose a serious threat to the environment by emitting greenhouse gases.
action is needed to reduce carbon monoxide and methane emissions, in particular by promoting research and investing in technologies to reduce emissions, i.e.
the short-term persistence of carbon monoxide and methane in the atmosphere requires a concerted effort to reduce emissions and urgent action to reduce the risk of tropical lake flooding effectively and rapidly.
improving dam infrastructure in developing countries is necessary to address climate change consequences and to achieve development goals.
as regards the large-scale projects, the eu assistance should be provided only for those which underwent thorough impact assessment taking into account all environmental and societal consequences.
new challenges, including climate change, biodiversity loss, land degradation and water quality, have affected the state of the world's food supply.
i agree with the rapporteurs that, despite the strong commitment to the human rights to food, water, energy, etc., the institutions of the european union and the member states still do not consider the eradication of poverty, hunger and malnutrition as a key strategic objective.
to achieve the mdgs by 2015, it is therefore necessary to review and, if necessary, change eu strategies such as 'europe 2020', 'global europe', energy policy, sustainable development strategy and, in general, future eu development cooperation.
there is a global need for more sustainable, energy-efficient and efficient production, especially in view of the growing world population and the increasing demand for natural resources.
since food is more important than energy, we propose that biofuels be stopped as long as there are hungry people in the world.
the plans of russia and belarus to build new nuclear power plants on the eastern borders of the european union could significantly weaken the nuclear and ecological security not only of the eastern states but also of europe as a whole.
furthermore, according to the danish authorities, the rapid expansion of the global wind energy sector did not allow for the reduction of employment in central jutland.
this proposal for a regulation lays down provisions to ensure the prudent conduct of fiscal policies and the sustainability of public finances in the member states.
− i voted in favour of the document because the purpose of the regulation is to avoid major budgetary policy errors that could put the sustainability of public finances at risk.
the use of binding commitments will require proper measures in order to implement them and to shift our industry to a green and sustainable path.
i voted in favour of this resolution, which more or less reflects the european union's general and realistic approach to sustainable development.
i am particularly pleased that paragraph 46 has softened the position on the total abandonment of nuclear energy.
we all want a cleaner environment, but the complete abandonment of nuclear energy would of course increase co2 emissions and also increase the threat to energy independence.
the energy mix is a matter for the member states, but it is important to ensure high safety standards, including for nuclear energy.
despite the progress made in sustainable development since the rio summit in 1992 and the johannesburg summit in 2002, many global development issues remain unresolved and many commitments of the international community have not yet been fully implemented.
some 1.4 billion people continue to live in extreme poverty, and challenges such as climate change and global population growth pose major threats to poverty reduction, human rights, peace and security, and the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs) in many developing countries.
the un general assembly decided to convene a united nations conference on sustainable development in rio de janeiro in june 2012 at the highest possible level, where world leaders would be given the opportunity to set the sustainability agenda for the next 10 years, reaffirming the need for global solidarity.
− i voted in favour of the document because the united nations conference on sustainable development (rio+20) will be held in rio de janeiro in 2012 and will focus on two themes: the ecological economy in the context of sustainable development and poverty eradication, and the institutional framework for sustainable development.
despite the progress made in sustainable development, many issues related to implementation gaps and challenges remain unaddressed, and many commitments of the international community have not yet been fully implemented.
the rio+20 summit provides an excellent opportunity to strengthen political commitment to sustainable development at the global level and to strengthen the partnership between industrialized and developing countries.
the rio+20 summit should discuss an integrated approach to tackling a range of issues, such as poverty eradication, health, food, employment, gender equality and energy supply.
it is imperative to make rapid progress in ensuring the effectiveness of the existing international environmental legal framework.
the rio+20 united nations conference on sustainable development will meet in june 2012 and will be hosted by the united nations.
although the past twenty years since the founding of this conference have seen some achievement, broader trends show the world headed away from truly sustainable development.
i voted in favour of this resolution because it states that the wild capitalist economy must be determined as one that destroys the environment and endangers people which is not acceptable.
a sustainable economy must be developed.
sustainability requires commitment from a local level all the way to the global level.
such a measure would be a useful complement to the measures financed by the esf, which aim in particular to help adapt to global challenges, and would contribute to sustainable economic growth.
i support the commission's proposal to extend the temporary derogation for workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis until the end of 2013. and i believe that member states need to make more use of the european globalisation adjustment fund to achieve european objectives and to foster new skills, including the skills needed to create new sustainable, green, high-quality jobs.
the taxation of aviation fuel is also ensured in line with council directive 2003/96/ec on the taxation of energy products.
i believe that in the current economic situation it would also be appropriate to apply a lower vat rate to energy-saving and environmentally friendly products and services.
these new elements will allow for increased eib intervention in sectors that will promote the development of third countries, such as environmental infrastructure, including water and sanitation, and sustainable transport, as well as climate change mitigation.
the eib provides financial support to the eu's external cooperation and development policy objectives, such as private sector development, infrastructure development, reliable energy supply and a sustainable environment.
i believe that there is no reason to doubt the financial sustainability of the bank, as the escb has a long track record of success, a prudent borrowing policy and good financial performance.
more importantly, the erdf can help strengthen corporate governance in lithuania's local enterprises, promote investment in renewable energy and support the development of electricity connections.
the focus will be on the economic policy guidelines, strengthening europe's global competitiveness, the eu's position on the g20 and the eu's final position on the climate change conference.
accessibility means enabling all persons with disabilities to enjoy the same access facilities as everyone else, whether in their physical environment, access to transport, information and communication.
mr president, i would like to move the following oral amendment to paragraph 7: ‘calls on the member states to remove obstacles to workers’ mobility by offering persons (the majority of whom are women) who follow their spouses or partners to another member state, appropriate services such as courses to facilitate their integration into their new social and cultural environment, for example language courses and vocational courses’.
it is also a pathway to the environment and to greater use of energy-saving measures.
the provisions of this directive aim to ensure the free movement of agricultural and forestry tractors while reducing the emission limit values of engines in order to protect the health and well-being of citizens and the environment.
− i voted in favour of this report because one of the main sources of air pollution is transport and its emissions.
the emission limits for carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, hydrocarbons and particulate matter are set and will be regulated in the future by several directives (entering into force on 1 january 2012 and 1 january 2014 respectively).
the emissions control directives apply to engines for farm tractors in order to limit their emissions.
the introduction of an exemption would be a better solution, as the directive on the limitation of transport pollution, which is coming into force, would help to reduce air pollution and noise.
this directive lays down limit values for the emission of pollutants carbon monoxide, oxides of nitrogen, hydrocarbons and particulate matter from engines.
in particular, in order to ensure a high level of environmental protection and the well-being of european citizens, we need to set requirements that encourage the reduction of emissions from engines fitted to agricultural and forestry tractors.
it should be noted that narrow-track tractors currently in use cause a lot of pollution and a threat to the safety of workers.
− i voted in favour of this report because i support the need to limit emissions of carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, hydrocarbons and particulate matter from vehicles.
the current emissions directive and the procedures it lays down will be tightened up from 2012 (with a transitional period until 2013).
the objective of this directive is to reduce emissions from vehicles with very high emission levels.
− directive 97/68/ec regulates the maximum emission levels for carbon monoxide (co), hydrocarbons (hc), nitrogen oxides (nox) and particulate matter (pm) from diesel engines for non-road mobile machinery.
in order to ensure that the industry continues to develop and to remain competitive and to protect the environment, it is appropriate to apply flexibility measures until 2014 and to allow a certain number of engines to be placed on the market under a flexibility scheme.
− i voted in favour of this report on the mobility and inclusion of people with disabilities, as it covers many of the issues that affect people with disabilities, such as education, employment, integration, appropriate adaptation of the environment, assistance to family members.
simpler eu public procurement rules and greater access to flexible procedures will help to promote sustainable and innovative purchasing practices.
there are various options, such as continuous market monitoring, greater use of the negotiated procedure after they have been announced, and other additional measures that increase transparency or allow for the submission of substantive alternative proposals, in particular with regard to proposals based on the principle of sustainable development.
simplified procurement rules and more flexible procedures are necessary to ensure a sustainable and modern procurement operation.
i do not think it is appropriate for public procurement authorities to include environmental costs in the assessment of the most economically advantageous tender.
− i voted in favour of this resolution because the obstacles still existing throughout the european union to the exercise of the right to free movement of workers must be removed and the conditions for integration into the new social and cultural environment must be created.
we, members of the european parliament, supported the need for a global understanding and a common approach in relation to monetary policy, international trade, sustainable public finances and flexible currencies, on the basis of economic fundamentals.
the global economy should be characterised by open markets, in which high social and environmental standards are vital, and the international monetary fund and the world trade organization should play a core role.
it is also essential to have a common approach to monetary policy, international trade, sustainable public finances and flexible currencies, based on key economic indicators.
trade policy must focus on fair trade, democracy, human rights, working conditions and sustainable development.
− i voted in favour of this report because organised crime groups are becoming increasingly politically active in the european union and the trafficking of drugs, international arms trafficking, human trafficking and exploitation, financial crime of all kinds, counterfeiting, environmental crime, cybercrime, fraud, extortion (trafficking), misappropriation of public funds - most of these crimes are becoming targets for money laundering - is on the rise.
support should be leveraged to promote inclusive and sustainable growth by taking into account the specificities of each country, thereby enhancing the effectiveness of support in countries that need it most, with a view to reducing poverty and aid dependency, promoting job creation and self-sustaining sustainable economic growth in developing countries.
i believe that the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth set out in the europe 2020 strategy should be taken into account.
promoting a strong, sustainable and inclusive economy, creating jobs and ensuring high-quality employment, through the seven flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy is an objective shared by all 27 member states and the eu institutions.
to help europe recover from the crisis and become stronger, the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth must be at the heart of the eu's 2012 budget strategy.
− i voted in favour of this document because in the europe 2020 strategy member states agreed to reach the employment target of 75% for the 20-64 age group by 2020, which is closely linked to economic growth and the sustainability of social protection systems and public finances.
− i voted in favour of this resolution because the new skills and jobs agenda is one of the key drivers of progress, sustainable and inclusive growth, which ensures full employment and prosperity.
competitiveness and employment must be promoted to move towards a sustainable, stronger and greener economy.
given the importance of the situation, action within the european union should take place at several different levels, such as: monitored intensification of infections with resistant bacteria and consumption of antibiotics, testing of reservoirs of resistance in humans and farmed animals in the natural environment, development of basic research, educational activities among those involved in medicine and the general public.
in order to prevent these crimes and to create a safer environment for children in society, it is necessary to establish a mechanism to combat sexual violence against children, their sexual exploitation and child pornography and to take strong and effective measures at eu level.
this will allow for the creation of a common eu-georgia aviation area, with georgia gradually implementing high standards in aviation regulation and safety, including environmental protection.
this specific programme of indirect actions sets out the following two thematic priorities, namely fusion energy research, nuclear fission and radiation protection.
the activities under the first thematic priority shall aim at the development of safe, sustainable, environmentally friendly and economically viable prototypes of power reactors, the development of the necessary knowledge base and the implementation of the iter project as a key step.
the objectives of the activities under the second thematic priority are to establish a sound scientific and technical basis to accelerate practical improvements in the management of safer long-lived radioactive waste, to achieve a safer, more resource-efficient and economically efficient use of nuclear energy in particular, and to ensure a robust and socially acceptable system for the protection of people and the environment from ionising radiation.
i think that in terms of energy independence, security, resource efficiency, these are very important areas.
this knowledge will help to set the highest standards in radiation safety and to better protect against the adverse effects of radiation on the environment and human health.
i believe that only by working together can we ensure that nuclear energy is used in a safer, more economically efficient and more resource-efficient way, and that we have a robust and socially acceptable system for protecting people and the environment from ionising radiation.
− i voted in favour of this report because i agree that we need to create the best possible legal environment for business and to eliminate the shortcomings that are hampering competitiveness in the european union.
only through these measures will an effective competitive environment be created for business operators and the possibility be created for them to survive in the face of temporary financial difficulties.
this specific programme of direct actions identifies three thematic priorities: nuclear waste management, environmental impact and basic knowledge, nuclear safety and nuclear security control measures and nuclear security.
i therefore support the position to strengthen research in nuclear safety, nuclear waste management and other related areas.
− i support this resolution, since the role of the joint research centre in the implementation of the european atomic energy community's overall programme of nuclear research and training activities is of particular importance.
particular attention and funding should continue to be devoted to the development of knowledge related to nuclear waste management, its environmental impact, nuclear safety, as well as nuclear safety and control.
− professional mobility is a key factor for economic development and sustainable economic recovery.
the mobility of professionals is a key factor in restoring economic development and a sustainable economy.
this report indicates how the agenda must ensure safe food, health and product safety as well as aiming to lower inequalities between consumers in europe, how it can contribute to a low carbon economy as decided in the eu 2020 strategy and how it must protect children from advertising.
eu citizens as consumers have a key role to play in achieving the europe 2020 strategy's goals of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, as consumer spending accounts for more than half of eu gdp.
this agenda must set out a clear vision for the future and a comprehensive approach to the current global situation, such as climate change, food security, the problem of an ageing society, etc.
i believe that public procurement plays a major role in sustainable consumption and can make a major contribution to the europe 2020 goals for sustainable consumption and growth.
but we also need a consumer agenda that reduces inequalities between european consumers, contributes to a low-carbon economy as decided in the europe 2020 strategy and protects children from advertising.
the new eu consumer strategy should promote responsible and sustainable consumption.
much remains to be done to ensure consumer rights and protection in the financial services, e-commerce and energy sectors.
these and other proposals set out in the report will help to create a consumer culture in the eu, so that a generation of consumers is born who are aware of their rights, who know how to defend them, who use them responsibly, who do not waste resources, who do not exploit them, who try to contribute as little as possible to environmental damage.
as an economic and social activity, beekeeping is of crucial importance for sustainable rural development, the creation of economic and social public goods, food security and the conservation of biodiversity.
recently, increased mortality has led to a significant decline in bee populations in the eu and globally, with negative impacts on agriculture, food production and security, biodiversity, environmental sustainability and ecosystems.
bees make a major contribution to the conservation of biodiversity and to economic and social public goods.
pesticide use, climate change, air pollution, and the electromagnetic fields produced by human equipment are thought to be the main factors contributing to the increase in bee mortality.
to reduce these factors, action is needed to improve environmental quality and reduce the use of biocides and pesticides.
beekeeping also provides an important ecosystem service through pollination, which contributes to the enhancement of biodiversity by maintaining plant genetic diversity and ecological balance.
− services of universal economic interest (sesi) are important among the common values of the union and promote social, economic and territorial cohesion, and are therefore crucial in combating inequalities in society and in creating sustainable development.
i am in favour of this report which calls for a framework directive on the quality and accessibility of social services of general interest, in particular in the areas of health, education, public transport, energy, water and communication.
in order to achieve sustainable and inclusive growth, the european project must focus on the most vulnerable, as poverty reduction is the engine of this future growth.
the steady rise in the cost of food, energy and housing is one of the main causes of poverty, poverty, homelessness.
in view of the current situation and the achievement of the objectives envisaged, i support the proposal for the commission to draw up as soon as possible guidelines and principles for a framework directive on the quality and accessibility of social services of general interest and on the adequacy and sustainability of european pension systems.
this taxation, i want to make clear, should not be dependent on labour – because we need more employment, not less – but should be dependent on, for instance, resource consumption, on excessive consumption of energy or on considerable fortunes and patrimony.
we have made proposals in the energy tax directive.
such bonds could, if well designed, strengthen financial stability and fiscal discipline in the euro area, and thus facilitate sustainable growth and job creation in europe as a whole.
we will, of course, assess budgetary plans with regard to both fiscal sustainability and macroeconomic imbalances.
− i voted in favour of this report because it is of the utmost importance to pursue the development of a rail transport system in the european union that is as sustainable and environmentally friendly as possible.
these figures are not high because of increased competition, but looking ahead, the european union is committed to reducing its carbon emissions and is also concerned about making the most efficient use of resources.
climate change is one of the major challenges of the 21st century that requires international action.
i support the call for the world's heads of state and government to take a genuine political leadership role in the negotiations and to demonstrate the will to reach a comprehensive, international, impartial, ambitious and legally binding agreement to ensure that global temperatures do not rise above 2°c and that greenhouse gas emissions are capped as soon as possible.
− i voted in favour of this resolution because one of the biggest problems of this century is climate change and its impact not only on europe but also on the whole world.
increased climate change is leading to more frequent storms and floods, colder winters, more rainfall, and earlier seasons.
without the necessary action to reduce the global annual surface temperature increase to 2°c and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the damage to nature and wildlife will be severe and our normal lives may be irreversibly altered.
the european commission has put forward proposals to reduce these problems by 2050, but it is necessary to achieve all this by 2020. climate change is caused by human lifestyles, by poor forest management, i.e.
to ensure our future security, action to mitigate climate change is urgently needed.
− i voted for this document because there is a great deal of scientific evidence that climate change is happening and having an impact, and that international action is therefore needed to tackle one of the greatest challenges of the 21st century and beyond.
i believe that it is necessary to urge the conference to ensure that a comprehensive, impartial, ambitious and legally binding international agreement on post-2012 activities is reached on the basis of the international rules-based framework provided for in the kyoto protocol, in order to ensure that global temperatures do not rise by more than 2°c and that greenhouse gas emissions are reduced as quickly as possible.
− i support this resolution because climate change is one of the major global challenges facing the world today, and its solution requires concerted and coordinated action at international level.
all eu institutions must take a strong stand at the durban conference and take a broader and more effective eu climate diplomacy.
i support the plan to create a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050. i believe that the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050 is realistic and can help to preserve prosperity and security for the future.
i agree that a change in policies is needed in all industrialized and developing countries to address the structural causes of poverty, and that it is therefore essential to focus local resources in partner countries for sustainable development.
i support the call to make the fight against tax havens, tax evasion and illicit capital flight a priority for development policy and to ensure that mining companies in developing countries pay proper taxes and produce in a way that respects social and environmental standards.
i join the rapporteur in calling on the georgian government to engage more widely in constructive dialogue with the opposition forces and to continue to create a democratic environment for freedom of expression, in particular by allowing all political parties to use the state media.
i also call on the georgian authorities to make stronger commitments in the areas of employment policy and social cohesion and to continue to create an environment conducive to the implementation of eu social market economy standards.
− i voted in favour because the programme's primary objective is to maximise the sustainable development, economic growth and social cohesion of the eu's coastal, island and outermost regions through coherent and coordinated maritime policy measures and appropriate international cooperation.
the programme shall support the sustainable use of seas and oceans and the development of scientific knowledge.
i believe that it remains essential to maximise sustainable development, economic growth and social cohesion in the eu's coastal, island and outermost regions.
as nuclear energy plays a key role in electricity generation in many member states, i am opposed to the proposal to encourage the eu to take decisive action to transition to a non-nuclear economy.
it should be noted that the transatlantic partnership is based on shared core values such as freedom, democracy, human rights and the rule of law, as well as common objectives such as social progress and inclusion, an open and integrated economy, sustainable development and peaceful conflict resolution, and is a foundation for security and stability in the euro-atlantic area.
i believe that the eu and the us should work more closely together to promote renewable energy and high standards of nuclear safety in the world.
in addition, member states must apply without reservation the prohibition of misleading advertising and other measures to increase citizens' trust in the online environment.
it is important for the european union that georgia ensures that toxic and radioactive waste is properly managed on its territory, as this is one of the conditions for facilitating trade, especially in agriculture, in order to ensure food security.
it is good to see that not only the committee on women's rights and gender equality, but also many other committees of the european parliament have taken initiatives in various areas, including the report of the committee on agriculture and rural development on its own initiative on the role of women in agriculture and rural areas and the public hearing of the committee on fisheries on the role of women in the development of sustainable fisheries areas.
unfortunately, illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is a major environmental and economic problem in both fishing seas and freshwater fishing areas worldwide, undermining fisheries management, threatening the sustainability of fish stocks and food security.
i therefore urge the commission to envisage and present concrete plans to make progress in the areas of job creation, innovation, education, energy, social inclusion.
− i voted in favour of this document because accession negotiations with croatia have been concluded and because, at the same time, the negotiation process, which lasted almost six years, and the preparations, which took several years, have brought about a major change in the political, economic and cultural environment of the country.
but the reforms must continue, and i believe that this process is not yet complete and should continue with the same energy and effort after the negotiations and accession to the european union.
i hope that croatia's success will encourage the rest of the countries in the region to take this path with energy.
even after the signing of the eu accession treaties of the republic of croatia on 8 and 9 december in the framework of the eec, it is necessary not to relax but to continue political and economic reforms, in particular in the areas of strengthening the rule of law, fighting corruption and organised crime, protecting human rights and improving the business environment, and building friendly and stable relations with neighbours.
i believe that the commission must in the near future envisage and present concrete plans which include measures to make progress towards the main objectives of today and the immediate future: job creation, innovation, education, energy and social inclusion.
the european single market makes a positive contribution to innovation, based on coordinated initiatives by the commission and strong commitments by the member states, it will open up new opportunities for businesses, especially innovative smes, and significantly enhance job creation and social cohesion, as well as promoting sustainable economic growth and helping to meet the needs of eu citizens and consumers.
the association agreement will have a positive impact on the business environment in ukraine by establishing common rules and standards for eu and ukrainian business operators, thus ensuring greater predictability and financial security of investments in ukraine.
ukraine's efforts to build not only political stability but also a credible environment of political pluralism, as well as to foster democratic freedoms and to promote internal reforms, will ensure a more rapid and smooth development of the process of possible ukrainian integration into europe in the future.
− the iter project, launched in 1988, aims to demonstrate that fusion energy could be a highly useful source of energy in the eu, with the long-term reliability and diversity of energy sources.
given global energy demand and the economic, political and environmental risks associated with reliance on fossil fuel sources, fusion energy can make a significant contribution to a diverse, sustainable and secure energy supply system within a few decades.
only through this project will fusion energy be able to become a highly useful energy source, ensuring the long-term reliability of energy supply and the diversity of energy sources.
in view of the demographic challenges facing the eu, legal migration and a well-managed migration policy should help member states to meet current and future labour needs and contribute to the economic expansion and sustainable development of the eu member states.
− i support this resolution because it is necessary to implement measures to ensure the sustainable management, conservation and enhancement of fisheries resources on a long-term basis worldwide.
it is important to note that the eu is one of the key players in this area and therefore has a major responsibility to contribute more effectively to the conservation and sustainable management of international fisheries resources.
the commission proposal for a directive aims to simplify the business environment of micro-entities, and in particular the requirements for financial reporting, in order to promote their competitiveness and enable them to develop.
the application of such an exemption will reduce the administrative burden on smes and simplify the business environment.
the regulatory dialogue should take into account the right of all states to strengthen human rights, environmental rules, social rules and public health.
the commission should clearly distinguish between non-tariff barriers that lead to unfair distortions of competition and those that reflect legitimate public policy objectives, in particular those relating to public health and the environment.
this is also very important news for the baltic sea, whose waters are suffering from phosphorus compound pollution, which causes algal blooms that are becoming more intense and active every year.
i hope that the member states will support our position and that the entry into force of this regulation and the acceleration of waste water treatment will bring about a significant improvement in the situation of the baltic and other seas.
the eu has also made progress in the area of the protection of the environment.
they are produced to the sustainability standards that our laws promote.
we also need to take into account environmental aspects: local products do not have to be transported over long distances, which results in high co2 emissions.
it should be stressed that this document is not about european protectionist measures, but about the continuing commitment to sustainability in all sectors of our economy.
the overall quality of the product shall also be assessed in the light of the ethical, ecological and qualitative aspects of the product.
the current directive will provide an opportunity for third country producers to improve product quality through more sustainable production processes.
in addition, in line with the provisions of this directive and with a view to more sustainable production processes, producers in third countries will be encouraged to improve the quality of their products.
the fisheries partnership agreement itself must pursue economic and social objectives, based on close scientific and technical cooperation, in order to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
each protocol shall be economically, ecologically and socially sustainable and mutually beneficial.
i agree that the security of energy supply is one of the eu's key priorities and one of the main areas of cooperation with russia.
it is important to strengthen the energy partnership with russia and to ensure that the eu speaks with one voice and shows strong internal solidarity in its relations with russia.
i agree with parliament's position that the eu must ensure a reliable energy supply based on uniform standards for all eu member states.
the diversity of energy suppliers and supply channels must also be ensured.
particular attention should also be paid to strengthening the energy partnership in order to ensure the security of energy supply.
russia's accession to the wto is welcome, which will create a more favourable environment for businesses in both countries and help to liberalise trade in the global economy.
i agree with parliament's view that it is important to strengthen the energy cooperation aspect of the european neighbourhood policy.
it is necessary to ensure security of energy supply through diversification of sources and demand management, to take effective measures to respect the principle of solidarity in the energy sector and to promote the construction, modernisation and development of modern energy networks and infrastructure interconnections with the eu's neighbours.
for the efd group recent developments have shown that offshore oil and gas exploration and production activities pose risks to maritime transport and the marine environment, and the european maritime safety agency has an important role to play in this area, ensuring an effective level of maritime safety and prevention of pollution from ships.
i believe that a high, uniform and effective level of safety and security at sea is necessary, that available capacities must be used to provide assistance, that marine pollution must be prevented and responded to in a timely manner, and that a european maritime area without barriers must be created.
the european maritime safety agency was set up in response to water pollution caused by tanker accidents.
the fight against marine pollution, maritime safety and environmental protection must be a priority for the agency.
this will help to prevent future ecological disasters.
transport has to contribute to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular in the areas of employment, sustainable growth, research, energy, innovation and the environment.
the government is failing to manage agriculture, to prevent the destruction of nature, to prevent the waste of water.
− indeed, the 'advanced energy for europe' programme has provided a very favourable environment for companies and public authorities in the member states of the community to prepare feasibility and market studies, business plans for reducing energy consumption and changing the way it is used.
this is a major step forward in reducing the climate change footprint, limiting and minimising pollution, and using energy resources more efficiently and rationally.
but if we were really talking about really advanced energy, we should be talking about different principles today, like a european energy without fossil fuels.
the search for new forms of energy should be the focus of all programmes to promote smart energy in europe.
it is necessary to encourage and finance member states' investments in new and advanced technologies in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources.
today, the path to smart energy requires new and bold steps in principle.
let us design our future in new forms of energy, such as hydrogen energy, the next generation of nuclear technology.
the 'smart energy for europe' programme has attracted a lot of interest from european union citizens and businesses since it was launched in 2003. to date, more than 500 eu-wide projects have been implemented, making a significant contribution to the european union's capacity for innovation, the development of a knowledge society, and greater energy efficiency, including the development of renewable sources.
i was the shadow rapporteur on this document for the environment committee and i am particularly pleased that emsa will now monitor not only pollution from ships but also oil and gas production and transport facilities.
in energy policy, the commission should monitor more closely the competition in energy markets and improve the integration of energy from renewable sources into electricity grids.
the european maritime safety agency, set up in 2002 and operational since march 2003, aims to ensure effective and uniform maritime safety and to protect and support pollution control mechanisms.
the agency's activities are important, since it has already carried out more than 100 investigations of all kinds in the field of safety, security and prevention of pollution from ships since its inception.
− offshore oil and gas exploration and production activities pose a threat to maritime transport and the marine environment.
the european maritime safety agency plays an important role in this area by ensuring a high, uniform and effective level of maritime safety and prevention of pollution from ships.
i believe that it is necessary to ensure a high, uniform and effective level of safety and security at sea, to use available capacities for assistance, to prevent and respond to marine pollution, including from offshore oil and gas installations, and to create a european maritime area without barriers.
transport can also be beneficial in other areas in the european union, such as innovation, research, the environment, sustainable economy, growth and energy.
taking into account economic, employment, environmental, social and territorial aspects, the european internal transport market should be completed by further opening up transport networks and markets.
transport has a significant contribution to make to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular in the areas of employment, sustainable economic growth, research, energy, innovation and the environment.
secondly, the promotion of environmentally friendly transport also requires improving the infrastructure associated with it, in particular the distribution points of energy (gas stations, charging stations for electric vehicles, etc.).
− i voted in favour of this report as the european union underlines the strong political and economic interest in strengthening its bilateral and multilateral relations with the countries of central asia in all areas of cooperation, such as stability, security and sustainable development of the region, trade and economic relations, energy and transport links, dialogue on common values such as democracy, respect for human rights and the strengthening of the rule of law, common challenges and threats, including border management and the fight against drug and human trafficking.
at european and national level, it is therefore necessary to harmonise occupational health and safety policies and to integrate them fully into other types of public policy: health, employment, industry, environment, transport, education, energy, regional development, public procurement and the internal market.