mr president, i think the importance of energy is clear from the fact that mr van rompuy is not here, as he is giving a press briefing, and mr barroso has left.
secondly, every building consuming 40% of our energy today can be transformed into a low-energy building by using renewables, even in a positive-energy building.
that is the number one energy of the future.
thirdly, that the regulation should pay particular attention to environmental, health and labour standards.
those who want the rest of the world to believe that any money spent on external solidarity is a waste of our money in all parts of the world would be well advised to look again at the statistics in the united nations development report.
i voted in favour of the directive because it is certainly useful to deposit and recycle waste electrical and electronic equipment.
although solar energy should be encouraged, photovoltaic modules contain materials that are at least as harmful to the environment as an electric toothbrush.
thirdly, where the promotion of renewable energy is possible at a reasonable cost, it is important to give priority to this form of energy.
i voted in favour of the report by mrs oomen-ruijten on adequate, sustainable and secure pension systems in europe.
to work for months on the sustainability of pension systems in europe, to draw up an ambitious report, to negotiate compromises for hours without wanting to establish the obvious fact that many governments in the european union have committed themselves to reforming pension systems, favouring the path of extending the period of contribution, is for me an act of unspeakable levity.
i cannot therefore support a report which is a waste of time, because it does not take account of the facts.
to avoid distortions of competition, mercosur countries must apply the same standards in terms of health, food safety, animal welfare and sustainable development as our farmers, who are also faced with higher social costs.
i think that this very, very serious and sad accident in japan should also make clear that it is absurd to put a nuclear power plant on the same level as a wind turbine or energy efficiency or a solar power plant in the fight against climate change.
and this low-carbon technology idea is just wrong!
and now, mr oettinger, the first concrete question to you: is it not time that you put on the table in the energy road map 2050 at least one scenario which simply shows what we can do with 100% renewable energy, coupled with efficiency?
it all boils down to two questions: what needs to be changed and, secondly, what can be changed in the first place in terms of energy production?
i would like to say that if fossil and nuclear energy were no more, we would very quickly be able to get a clearer idea of the potential for the development of renewable energies.
thirdly, and lastly, it is a question of developing satellite tourism accounts, as has already been done in canada for years, which would make it even easier to determine the impact on the economy, on jobs, on the environment, etc., and thus provide answers to many questions in all policy areas related to tourism.
and the only answer to that question is that we are building europe as a 100% renewable europe in the vision.
by combining energy efficiency in homes, transport, industry and electricity with a large and wide variety of renewable energies and the use of natural gas as a transition, this vision can be gradually realised.
commissioner, you are currently working on an energy roadmap for 2050. our question to you is, are you willing to work with us on such a vision?
do you also believe that this energy roadmap 2050 should be used to discuss a different energy future in europe with not only informed circles but also with the citizens of europe?
i think we both accept that such an agreement is no longer appropriate in today's climate after the lisbon treaty.
i voted against the leinen report which, under the cover of so-called environmental statistics, sets in motion an avalanche of information requiring a huge bureaucratic burden, and all in the name of green evangelicalism.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not only a matter of the community's own resources, but also of the member states' own resources.
yes, deficit and sustainable growth are antinomic.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
the commission therefore welcomes the fact that parliament endorses the overall approach proposed in the july 2010 report, which takes into account not only the economic performance of the distribution sector but also the direct impact on citizens, consumers, employees, farmers, smes and the environment of practices and decisions in this sector.
as such, we will explore the idea of developing a comprehensive european action plan for retail, which would establish a more explicit and coherent strategy for the sector, while building on initiatives already developed by the commission, such as the high level forum on improving the functioning of the food supply chain or the initiatives on sustainable development.
finally, i would mention among our common concerns the need to encourage sustainable consumption.
it is also called endogenous development, the only true form of sustainable development.
fourteen million farmers have been growing gmos for years without any negative impact on human or animal health or the environment.
i did not support the eickhout report, which proposes to go beyond the 20% greenhouse gas reduction target.
in a world where the eu's emissions are continually falling and are approaching 10% of global emissions, europe alone cannot do more and more.
i welcome the union's flagship initiative to reduce its emissions by 20% by 2020 and recognise its importance for our future common energy and climate policy.
i think it is irresponsible, however, that there is no mention at all of the change in nuclear policy by heavyweights such as germany and its impact on the achievement of emission reduction targets and the price of energy in europe.
i warn you: we risk losing jobs if we fail to back up our climate policy with a stronger industrial policy.
china has already overtaken us in the production of photovoltaic cells by its greater production flexibility and a less restrictive energy policy.
i think we should go for the long term, invest in research and green jobs in europe, to preserve our financial means to pay for an ambitious climate policy.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, i have the privilege and honour today to speak on behalf of the polish presidency in the debate on the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on energy market transparency.
i would also like to thank the representatives of the european parliament, in particular the rapporteur, mr jorgos chatsimarkakis, and the members of the committee on industry, research and energy for their valuable contribution to the work on this regulation.
the current system of community law is not sufficient to combat abuses in energy trade.
europe needs a strong energy market, integrated, transparent, with the ability to react quickly to any manipulation, or even attempted manipulation.
this regulation is an important step towards achieving our objective of completing the eu internal energy market by 2014. we all agree that the energy market must be competitive and dynamic.
i would therefore like to call on members to vote in favour of this act, which is a compromise between the commission, the council and parliament and which will help to increase the integrity and transparency of the energy market.
without it, a secure and sustainable energy supply, fair and affordable, would be difficult to imagine.
the wholesale prices at issue today and wholesale markets are also relevant to the consumer, at least indirectly, and affect the amount of his future energy bill.
we have long considered whether general market rules 1:1 are not applicable and have come to the conclusion that the specific nature of energy markets also requires special regulation and special procedures and special authorities to prevent or detect and sanction market abuse and attempted manipulation.
we have a clearly defined code of conduct, which together with the european market observatory, which is based at acer, and with clear authority, constitutes a regulatory framework applicable to energy trading markets and which we believe sets international standards.
the european rules of the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid) and the market abuse directive (mad) apply in principle also to energy market players.
i therefore recommend that you also take an interest in the further development of these general rules, which are also important for the energy and wholesale markets, and that you draw on your expertise in the energy and industrial sectors.
we will ensure that the changes affect the energy market only to the extent strictly necessary.
it is important to me that those who trade in energy not primarily for the sake of trade but because their main business requires it are not burdened with excessive rules.
the point is that not everything that has to be true in the financial market is also true in the energy market, but often regulation can be too far-reaching.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - mr president, 60 seconds to defend the interests of consumers against abuses in the energy market is not enough.
i do not like very much that the text we are about to vote on accepts - and i quote - "admissible market practices in the wholesale energy market".
the regulation on energy market integrity and transparency (remit) is a step forward to prevent the scandal of insider trading and manipulation.
secondly, we have put the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) into the driving seat.
it is with heart and reason that we must meet the current challenge of the horn of africa, which is facing a series of failures and failures: climate change, the development of agricultural production in recent decades, security in the region, governance in a region controlled by militants or terrorist networks, attempts by humanitarian actors to gain access to the provinces most affected by famine, respect for the impartiality of humanitarian actors, the death of tens of thousands of people deprived of the essentials.
it intends to contribute to the development itself in the long term, to sustainable development, which africans will have to take control of.
in europe, tourism is a large and important sector, which involves economic, cultural, environmental and - not to be forgotten - transport-related factors.
in this report we are in favour of promoting a more sustainable, responsible and competitive tourism.
in my view, sustainability and tourism responsibility are not limited to the environmental aspect, but also have an important social dimension.
prevention, through a policy more focused on sustainable development, coordination and the permanent exchange of information to avoid duplication, the pooling of resources available to the member states of the european union, for the sake of efficiency, on the one hand, and good management of public money, on the other.
in this context, should the european union not declare a moratorium on all the so-called environmental taxes that will be imposed on our fellow citizens in the coming months: more expensive electricity, taxes on fuel, taxes on air travel, and so on.
our share of co2 emissions has fallen from 14 to 10 percent, which means that everyone else has gone up.
i would like to propose another area in which to invest: i want to talk about energy.
invest in indigenous renewable energy.
why not organise a summit meeting where the european investment bank, pension funds, the major european energy companies, private banks holding the savings of citizens, which are still plentiful in many countries, come together and develop an investment programme that does two things: create added value in europe and reduce our energy dependence, and all this on the basis of private investment.
i am particularly concerned about the fact that we are constantly imposing new regulations on our industries, whether through energy prices, excessive environmental protection requirements or very punitive taxation.
the combination of the constraints i have mentioned and the absence of a genuine industrial policy creates an unfavourable climate and limited development prospects for the industries still based in the european union.
i therefore call for the revival of a proper industrial policy based on innovation, for greater coordination of sectoral policies and for greater realism in climate change and environmental policies.
for the renovation of buildings, for more renewable energy, you also need steel.
the same applies to the financing of policies to mitigate the impact of climate change on developing countries.
the resolution for the next climate conference in durban has not found my support.
the eu's co2 emissions are on track to account for 10% of global emissions, because emissions from the rest of the world are increasing even faster.
instead of recognizing this and focusing on what is feasible, including the transfer of energy-efficient technologies, europe is stubbornly clinging to a kyoto agreement that even the japanese have abandoned.
instead of wanting to set an 'example' for the rest of the world, the european union should be concerned with its competitiveness in environmental technologies.
it has succeeded in drawing up a good, coherent and comprehensible result from several hundred amendments, which places the main emphasis on safety, environmental protection, energy and technology for the future.
that's why i don't think the gigalin debate is the best solution for sustainability.
i am not blaming you personally, but the people in the research and energy dg who are about to cancel one of the most useful programmes we have ever had in the european budget, the intelligent energy for europe programme, without replacement.
studies on offshore wind in the north sea, training workshops for government officials on how to implement the eu building directive, training events for architects and engineers on how we are building near-zero-energy houses, networks between progressive mayors in europe - i could go on and on.
the abolition of the intelligent energy for europe programme is poison at a time when we need to win citizens in europe for europe.