the commission has come up with what i consider to be a very welcome initiative to develop energy infrastructure across the european union at both the electricity and gas interconnections.
my question to you is this: the remaining 100 billion euros that will be needed to upgrade the energy grid by the year 20 from where will these funds come?
the first of these is energy.
in this room, we have different views on what is most important for the development of energy in europe.
some think it's renewable energy, some think it's nuclear, some think energy conservation is the most important.
but one thing i think we can all agree on is that we need a unified energy network in europe so that we can no longer have some member states completely isolated from others in the electricity market or the gas sector.
in this context, the council meeting this friday is discussing how to create a single energy grid in europe, and i think the most important question there is where the funding will come from.
financing must also be found for projects that do not have a direct commercial viability in the short term overall financing to eliminate the energy sector.
- i voted in favour because i believe that additional bonuses and incentives should be provided to stimulate the development of industry, science, transport and energy.
− the s&d group and i voted in favour, because it is obvious that the amount of waste from electronic and electrical equipment is constantly increasing.
this threatens the sustainability of the pension system.
− i supported the report on the development of an adequate, sustainable and secure european pension system because i believe that changes are needed in the existing pension model to ensure its sustainability.
and we don't have to do anything supernatural - we have to make sure that agricultural products imported into the european union are subject to the same environmental, social, animal welfare and safety standards that european farmers have to meet.
it focuses on supporting active farmers, environmental protection and rural development.
this resolution emphasises that the increased use of protein crops in the highlands significantly improves agroforestry and helps to mitigate climate change.
however, it goes beyond trade relations and also includes the issues of energy, industry and raw materials, r&d and innovation and education.
the motto for deciding on the eu 2012 budget should therefore be ‘sustainability and responsibility’ rather than ‘austerity’.
− as was said, the report aims to highlight the need to implement the principle of gender equality in the common agricultural policy as a way of promoting sustainable economic growth and rural development.
the resolution also estimates expenditure and delays in possible funding of energy projects which are not related to decommissioning.
it is necessary to define clearly and specifically exactly how powerful energy sources will be substituted, where and when new electric stations will be constructed by our financial means.
− as i have already said in answer to another colleague, deciding on the energy mix is a matter that lies within the national sphere of responsibility.
as you know, there are member states in the european union that have nuclear energy, for instance your country, spain, and others that do not have nuclear energy, for instance my country, portugal.
so it is not up to the commission to say whether or not member states should have nuclear energy.
i believe we can and should fulfil the goals already agreed for a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
we will work towards a more favourable fiscal accounting environment, progress on innovation, patents, copyright - as mr manders mentioned - access to investment and, i think, also on the private/public partnership.
my third conviction, ladies and gentlemen, is that there can be no sustainable economic performance without innovation and social cohesion.
the third point i would like to make is that i believe that the completion of the internal market is unthinkable without the construction and completion of energy and transport infrastructure.
the hungarian presidency continued to focus on the implementation of the single energy market during the first three months.
statistics in the field of tourism are not used only for monitoring of tourism policy but also play an important role in the broader context of regional policy and sustainable development.
− i am convinced that creating a safe and transparent environment for the function and the funding of european political parties is a deeply democratic act.
both of these alternatives have difficulties: for coal, it's co2 emissions, for natural gas, of course, it's imports, mostly from russia.
of course, the second thing that europe needs to do, and in the short term we can do, is to further strengthen our energy-saving measures and also to put more emphasis on renewable energy sources, using more wind, solar, water and biomass sources.
and of course, in the long run, it's energy conservation and increased use of wind, solar, water and biomass that will reduce our dependence on both nuclear and imported energy sources.
i believe that nuclear energy must remain an important and reliable source of energy for europe.
− i know that the objective of the agreement is to prevent, deter and eliminate iuu fishing through the implementation of effective port state measures, thereby ensuring the long-term conservation and sustainable use of living marine resources and marine ecosystems.
according to the world bank's "doing business 2010" index, georgia has the 12th "easiest" business environment in the world.
and in this connection, europe also has the opportunity to influence our immediate neighbours, linking energy purchases to nuclear safety.
− it is known that the report stresses the fact that forests should be seen as a major contributor to climate change mitigation and adaptation, rendering necessary the reinforcement of the eu strategy for combating the factors causing their deterioration, e.g.
moreover the report focused on establishing a general context concerning forest protection, namely subsidiarity, diversity of threats according to different forest types, the central role of sustainable forest management and the importance of forests for competitiveness and employment.
it has achieved a balanced approach to the most pressing issues of the organisation and activities of the european external action service and key issues of common foreign and security policy, such as the promotion of the values of democracy, human rights and the rule of law, promotion of gender equality, energy security, the situation in iran and afghanistan, the eu’s response to the democratic changes in the southern mediterranean, and relations with major players, such as russia, china, japan and india.
because the damage done to the environment must be compensated and the infrastructure must be improved, and as my colleague dirk sterckx has already mentioned, this is the first legislation at european level where this principle is incorporated at european level.
− since the report is on a commission proposal that aims to simplify the legislation in force with a view to creating a better and clearer legislative environment for businesses, mainly with respect to the simplification of customs formalities carried out by importers of textile products, i voted in favour.
relevant criteria for air agreements with third countries include balanced access to markets and investment opportunities, as well as fair competition in terms of state subsidies, environmental and social standards.
− eurovignette iii will allow member states – if they so wish – to charge road users for external costs (air, noise, pollution), so that finally the ‘polluter pays’ principle is introduced in road transport.
− recycling and prevention of waste, air emissions and climatic change and sustainable consumption and production could be monitored much more effectively if high-quality data were available regarding the interaction between environmental and economic factors.
moreover environmental data currently available should be expanded in the medium term to facilitate the necessary policy assessment of the european environmental policy.
as i understand it, ep priorities are: an enhanced role for the eu in the un system, taking into account the institutional changes brought by the lisbon treaty, a need for guidelines ensuring proper consultations between the ambassadors of the member states in order to avoid discordance of eu voices as in the case of libya, an adequate budget for un women, further strengthening of the role of the icc, support for the un mediation unit and a key role for the eeas in this context, improvement of the relationship between the un peacebuilding commission and the eu peace-building partnership and finally stronger eu leadership in the area of global climate governance.
scientific research is one of the bases of the european strategy for economic development, ensuring competency, development of the social area and environmental protection.
− the potential agreement covers a wide range of issues: trade in goods and services, intellectual property rights, public procurement, regulatory cooperation, investment, temporary migration (mode iv), competition policy and labour and environmental standards.
the fuel quality directive has been highly debated in the committee on the environment.
the failure today inside and outside the eu to comply with basic international social standards constitutes a form of social and environmental dumping detrimental to european enterprises and workers.
in terms of this financial instrument it is possible to render financial aid to acp countries (african, caribbean and pacific group of states) in restructuring the manufacturing of sugar, and financial support for five programmes is envisioned: food security; environment and sustainable development of natural resources, including energy; migration and asylum granting; investment in human resources; the role of local authorities and non-governmental organisations in development processes.
− although the european parliament's report on investing in the future - a new multiannual financial framework (mff) for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe - contains many supportive ideas, i did not support it because i believe it undermines the image of the european union in the eyes of the public.
neither russia nor belarus has carried out an environmental impact assessment of their planned nuclear power plants in line with generally accepted international law, as required by the espo convention, to which all eu member states are signatories.
− i voted in favour of this resolution and would like to stress that russia's energy policy towards the eu member states and eastern european countries will be a litmus test of whether and to what extent russia is truly able to move forward on the path of modernisation and democratisation.
if the supply of energy resources is not used as a political instrument, if it is provided on the basis of equal, transparent and non-discriminatory conditions for all market participants, if russia chooses to implement the objectively existing interdependence in the energy sector through cooperation on the basis of specific, fair and legally binding principles, we can speak of a new stage in the development of a united europe.
− the negotiation and signing of fisheries agreements is in line with the eu’s general objective of maintaining and preserving the activities of its fishing fleet, including the open-sea fleet, as also with the development of relations with third countries in a spirit of partnership and cooperation, with a view to reinforcing sustainable fishing outside union waters while taking due account of environmental, social and economic factors.
this agreement, which is applicable for periods of four years, tacitly renewable unless either party rescinds it, entailed the repeal and replacement of the first agreement between the ec and são tomé and principe, concluded in 1984. the new protocol was signed on 13 may 2011 and the request for consent was forwarded to parliament by the council on the same day.
i think latvia is a good example in consumer protection, because we have some of the highest standards, but they are proportionate and do not limit the business environment with bureaucratic requirements.
it's energy electricity and gas.
with this report, the european parliament makes it clear that european citizens and consumers must have a choice not only in soaps but also in the energy market electricity and gas.
i fully support the call in the regulation for member states to restrict the cultivation of gmos on their territory, as i believe that we currently lack sufficient long-term, scientifically based evidence on the environmental and human health effects of gmos.
the rapporteur considers this redeployment inappropriate and proposes redeployment under implemented appropriation from ‘european economic recovery plan – energy networks’ to finance the needs arising from the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund; to draw upon the negative reserve adopted in amending budget no 1/2011; and to reinforce payment appropriation for the egf.
the reasons for adopting specific measures include isolation, raw material and energy dependence, the obligation to build up stocks, the small size of local markets and the low level of export activity.
− i did not support the report on the analysis of the various options for achieving a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions of more than 20% and the analysis of the risks of exceeding carbon emissions, as i believe that this would impose a disproportionate burden on european businesses at a time when the economic recovery is just beginning.
the european union has already agreed to a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. this objective is set and a clear vision is given of how it will be achieved.
greater reductions in emissions will undoubtedly be good for the environment and necessary, but any steps in this direction must be tailored to balance the interests of all parties involved.
− the threat to humanity posed by climate change is not decreasing.
although it is not possible to blame extreme weather events on global warming, it seems very likely that climate change exacerbates the frequency and intensity of extremes.
in this light, the rapporteur calls for the commission to come forward with proposals to increase, as soon as possible, europe's climate ambition to a 30% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. i absolutely agree with bas eickhout.
− the rapporteur regards certain key areas of the europe 2020 strategy (namely reducing the rate of early school-leaving, raising levels of final examination results, getting more people into employment, reducing poverty, and increasing environmental investment by local authorities) as areas for which national or even regional/local policy-makers should bear primary responsibility.
cohesion policy should not act as a catalyst for a thorough europeanisation of social or environmental policy here, for that would massively overburden its resources.
rather, there should be a closer focus on the regional contribution to european policies (environmental protection, climate change, energy, transport infrastructure, etc.
− this report concerns the establishment of a common european energy network which will provide a safe flow of energy and will put to an end to the existence of ‘energy islands’.
the clear goals presented in the report are to: 1. increase market integration, competition and market liquidity and reduce market concentration; 2. put an end to energy islands; 3. reduce network losses, preventing transmission bottlenecks – including internal projects as long as they contribute to the development of cross-border interconnections – and relieve cross-border transmission; 4. resolve single-supplier dependency; 5. diversify transit routes and the origin of resources; and 6. integrate renewable energy to the grid and increase the use of renewable energy sources by reducing renewable-energy curtailment.
this will boost european competency and provide sustainable growth.
environmental protection measures should be taken in advance and should be aimed at elimination of the source.
any economic project, either public or private, which may affect the environment, for example the construction of roads or the beginning of the functioning of a metal production shop should respectively undergo ecological assessment.
− as has become known, the agreement has been negotiated between consumers and producers to promote the expansion and diversification of international trade in tropical timber and to promote the sustainable management of tropical timber producing forests.
− the convention will establish the south pacific regional fisheries management organisation (sprfmo), whose mission will be to manage and conserve non-highly-migratory species, and to protect biodiversity in the high seas areas of the south pacific, in a manner consistent with international law.
institutionalised coordination could provide tangible results to protect the livelihood of fishermen, ensure economic development in coastal areas, and protect the ecological balance and fish resources in the basin.
one of our main objectives in the energy market is to maintain price stability for our consumers.
with the introduction of this regulation, we will introduce a ban on the energy market similar to that on the stock market, namely that large energy producers will no longer be able to use inside information to manipulate prices to the detriment of consumers.
the beneficiaries of this regulation on the energy market are our consumers, because by preventing price manipulation we achieve price stability, which is one of our objectives.
i therefore strongly urge you to support the introduction of this regulation in the energy market.
− the regulation aims to prohibit market manipulation and insider trading in the eu’s energy markets and defines them and puts in place monitoring mechanisms and penalties to dissuade such forms of market abuse.
acer (agency for the cooperation of european energy regulators) is given a strong role to play.
− in order to mitigate the consequences of climate change, while european climate policy has been focused on long-term reductions of co2 emissions, it is necessary to fight for preservation of nature by all means.
these areas will include enhancing political cooperation, reinforcing joint measures in migration, asylum, border management, drugs and crime, expanding economic relations, and increasing cooperation in critical sectors such as energy, environment, transport and public health, with a direct impact on citizens’ daily lives and on the business environment.
− the european parliament 1. urges the eu to advocate a bold goal for reducing preventable mortality from ncds, such as the who goal of a 25% reduction in national mortality rates by 2025 as compared with 2010 rates; 2. calls on the eu and its member states to endorse the following key commitments and include them in the political statement to be issued at the un high-level meeting on ncds in september 2011: the reduction of preventable ncd mortality by 25% by 2025, as proposed by the who, the implementation of cost-effective and cost-saving interventions, including the speedier implementation of the who framework convention on tobacco control, better access to and the promotion of healthy diets, including action to reduce salt, sugar, saturated fat and transfat intakes, effective measures to combat the harmful use of alcohol, and access to and the promotion of physical activities, as well as a population-wide reduction in exposure to environmental pollution, including endocrine disruptors and other environmental contaminants, the monitoring of trends in ncd mortality and the common risk factors for ncds, the development of global and national accountability mechanisms for all key stakeholders involved.
− i agree that that biodiversity and natural resources – such as water, soil and forests – must be properly valued and accounted for.
in the report parliament supports the european commission’s call for a ‘green economy roadmap’ and stresses that sustainable growth needs new measures and ‘accountable targets’, including global goals to increase renewable energy and energy efficiency.
the resolution calls for an end to environmentally harmful subsidies by 2020. i also agree that there should be an international tax on financial transactions – as proposed at eu level by the european commission – to support climate and biodiversity protection in developing countries.
speaking of the modernisation of public procurement in europe, i would like to draw attention to several things: firstly, the lowest price condition must not be the decisive one and must be replaced by the most economically viable offer, taking into account all the costs of the relevant goods, services or works in the life cycle; secondly, there is a need for flexibility in legislation so that institutions such as hospitals and schools have access to healthy and financially viable food, rather than just the cheapest available, and so that they can choose food products of regional origin, which would avoid excessive environmental pollution; thirdly, measures must be taken to reduce the transaction costs of smes, such as the 'once-only' principle, whereby only the selected tenderer must provide the original documents or a standardised passport at the end of the procurement procedure; and the creation of an electronic register of foodstuffs in which the relevant certificates are stored; fourth, more effective reporting practices are needed to prevent and fight corruption, including the exchange of information between member states on the exclusion of dishonest bidders, as well as on the exclusion of candidates found to be dishonest from public procurement until they have 'cleaned up'.
− it is known that the non-road mobile machinery (nrmm) directive (97/68/ec) aims to control emissions of carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, hydrocarbons and particulates (co2 emissions are not covered by this legislation) from a variety of engines in, for example, excavators, bulldozers, front loaders, back loaders and compressors.
the directive was amended in 2004 to introduce new emissions limits and, in addition, the flexibility scheme allowing manufacturers to place on the market a limited number of engines belonging to the older category (with higher maximum permitted exhaust emissions).
− this report highlights ‘environmental and social public-policy challenges, as well as quality-of-work issues including adequate pay, equality, social cohesion and inclusion, while achieving optimal value for citizens, businesses, employees and taxpayers’ and, with regard to the general principles for awarding contracts, states clearly that the lowest price should no longer be the determining factor and that ‘it should, in general, be replaced by the criterion of most economically advantageous tender, in terms of economic, social and environmental benefits – taking into account the entire life-cycle costs of the relevant goods, services or works’.
this amendment to that directive is one of many that will result in a more favourable tax environment for economic operators.
− euratom’s programme aims at the generalisation and development of knowledge in the nuclear field, an increase in the scientific-technical qualifications of specialists and the improvement of technologies from the point of view of their reliability, safety, cost-effectiveness and sustainable development.
− the report outlines the core objectives of the consumer agenda and places a special focus on consumer empowerment, consumer protection and product safety, on measures to reach a more social and sustainable consumer policy and on enforcement of consumer rights and redress.
it is worrying that in recent years bee colonies in europe have been disappearing, causing not only economic losses but also threats to the ecological system.
beekeeping plays a crucial role in the sustainable development of rural areas and provides income, directly or indirectly, for over 600 000 citizens.
the label will be granted to sites with strong symbolic and aesthetic value from the point of view of european heritage, and it also intends to contribute to the sustainable economic development of regions by encouraging cultural tourism.
fighting climate change should remain a priority, both at european and international level.
the eu should show leadership at the un climate summit in durban and provide full support for the conclusion of a comprehensive, international, legally binding agreement post-2012.
3) increasing aid and climate change finance in line with commitments.
4) spending aid effectively, support debt sustainability in developing countries and create a more conducive international architecture for development.
− the report draws attention to the serious risks of departing from network neutrality – such as anticompetitive behaviour, the blocking of innovation, restrictions on freedom of expression and media pluralism, lack of consumer awareness and infringement of privacy – which will be detrimental to businesses, consumers and democratic society as a whole, and considers the principle of net neutrality as a significant prerequisite for enabling an innovative internet ecosystem and for securing a level playing field at the service of european citizens and entrepreneurs.
drafting of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
− in the european union as a whole, one third of all energy consumed is consumed in the transport sector.
it is mainly oil products, but europe imports 80% of all oil products, so it is clear that we are not only dependent on imports, but in the transport sector we are over-dependent on imports in terms of energy.
our aim must therefore be to reduce our dependence on energy imports in the transport sector.
colleagues, i support this report because it will help to reduce our dependence on energy imports in the transport sector.
finding the right balance between these priorities and interests - as evidenced by the more than 400 proposals - was difficult, as was finding the right balance between the development of a proper or balanced transport sector and the promotion of competitiveness, environmental protection requirements and reasonable financial requirements both for taxpayers and for transport operators.
i would like to speak specifically about two areas: the services sector and the energy sector.
and in the energy sector too, we know very well that in many member states of the european union there is virtually no competition in the energy market.