moreover member states should have more transparent rules with regard to international adoption procedures and should also retain a constant exchange of information on the conditions and surroundings of the adopted child in the new environment.
at the same time, member states want to make their systems sustainable, especially in the light of the current difficult economic situation.
i think we need to do two things: first of all we must step in, with our help, to foster and strengthen the democratic environment in these countries, and in particular democratic institutions, so that they can flourish; and flourish in a way that the extremists and new dictators are pushed aside.
− i voted in favour of the joint resolution on campania, which calls on the italian government to treat the matter of the waste crisis in the region with the urgency and seriousness that it deserves.
unfortunately, the commission had no other option but to withhold eu structural funds intended for campania, funds which will only be released once the waste management plan for campania becomes compliant and consistent with eu law.
parliament has also called on the italian authorities to examine and remove ‘the 7 million tonnes of “ecobales” which have accumulated into stockpiles and to tackle the “illegal dumping of mixed and unidentified waste” in the region.’ at this time, it is imperative that we do not underestimate the legitimate concerns and complaints of the people of the region.
there are too many differences between the member states today and that is not sustainable.
in many member states pension reform is vital if we are to achieve the objectives set out in the green paper, namely to have solid, adequate and sustainable pensions.
the eu and member states face one of their biggest challenges with regard to ensuring adequate and sustainable pension systems in europe.
it was a suffocating environment that did not make me proud of my country.
the political environment is completely different.
a more business-conducive environment for micro and craft enterprises should be supported through the promotion of high-quality support services, better legal and fiscal measures, and social protection for new entrepreneurs.
more adequate and sustainable financial instruments should guarantee that smes have better access to capital.
the socio-political base provoking the changes in the arab world is not dissimilar across those countries which are now in transition to what we hope will be a democratic environment.
the monthly ‘travelling circus’ from brussels to strasbourg has become synonymous with waste, both in terms of the eur 200 million spent on it, and the 20 000 tonnes of co2 emitted.
around 350 meps supported the amendment that would sandwich two of our sessions into one week, thus saving the costs, time and energy of the return journeys.
one of the goals of this policy initiative is to reduce the number of early school leavers and increase the proportion of people with tertiary education qualifications, the reason being that early school leaving runs counter to the dynamics and needs of the labour market and is also in direct conflict with europe’s economic and social sustainability in general.
moreover, i am convinced that in a post-crisis europe, any single market strategy has to be formulated in such a way as to maintain and enhance social cohesion, ensure market integrity and economic sustainability and foster innovation.
the global climatic challenges, the strain posed by demographic changes on food security, as well as the economic recession, should lead to the intensification of efforts to ensure sustainable growth, encourage and protect jobs.
dedicated innovation and research will support europe’s transition to becoming more environmentally and economically sustainable.
− i will vote in favour of this report because it highlights the importance of moving beyond the current greenhouse gas emissions target of 20% and increasing this to 30% in order to work towards the ambitious 2 degree celsius objective.
it has become increasingly clear that delaying action is unsustainable and will not only increase the costs of reducing emissions but will also result in the eu losing its pioneering role in green research.
the eu, whose global emissions are just over 10%, cannot combat climate change alone; this is a global problem which requires global action.
in the case of consumer protection, i call on the commission to consolidate an easily accessible user-friendly mechanism containing data on the economic, social, ethical and environmental performance of retailers operating within the single market, so as to enable consumers to enjoy a more integrated retail market within which they are able to make better choices.
− although there were a number of salient issues addressed in this document, i will abstain from voting in favour of this report as it has not taken full consideration of the repercussions on periphery island states, such as malta, and mountainous regions, particularly in using the term ‘energy island’, which is used here to describe those states that have an inability to diversify sources and suppliers.
in light of this fact, it is extremely important that malta remains properly linked in to european energy networks, and it would therefore be impossible for me to vote in favour of a report that could jeopardise the country’s energy security
in writing.
the commission should also provide a clear legal framework, especially in the current economic environment, and any information on the application of eu rules must ensure that services of general interest continue to be capable of fulfilling their purpose of guaranteeing a better quality of life for european citizens.
− i believe that the report on energy market integrity and transparency sets out important principles for the protection of consumers from market abuse and speculation in the wholesale energy market.
this would increase consumer confidence in the electricity and gas markets in the long term and ensure affordable, accessible and available energy for all citizens.
strong cross-border market monitoring is essential for the completion of a fully functioning, interconnected and integrated internal energy market.
therefore proper monitoring and transparency of the energy market is dependent on close cooperation and enhanced coordination between various european agencies and national authorities.
we have a long experience to offer in this respect and also in developing a democratic environment.
business grows when the environment is calm and stable, and with this in mind we have suggested that where possible, especially on topics where there is no controversy, rules should be used rather than directives.
in addition, eib loans and guarantees for projects outside the eu will now be contingent upon their contribution to key eu goals, such as the achievement of the millennium development goals, reduction of poverty levels and the fight against climate change.
– given the impact of austerity and the difficult economic environment on european citizens, it is appropriate that the european institutions, including the parliament, should carefully re-examine their spending.
therefore any action plan must factor in extra precautions geared towards meeting the challenges and countering the elements of risk posed by the online environment in terms of the safeguard of minors, player protection, payment security and data protection of individuals engaged in internet gambling, as well as ensuring that fair competition for operators duly licensed in other member states is guaranteed in each member state.
in order to reach a more social and sustainable consumer policy, the consumer agenda should address core issues such as consumer empowerment, consumer protection and focus on actions towards enforcement of consumer rights and redress.