let me tell you something else about energy.
i think there's very little attention to locally generated energy.
it is important to invest a lot of energy and money in the redevelopment of agriculture and local infrastructure.
without political stability and a very effective public administration, this sustainable development cannot succeed at all.
c3-0310/98) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the common position of the council (c3-0310/98) on the proposal for a regulation (c3-0310/98) by the commission on the common position of the council (c3-0310/98) on the common position of the council (c3-0310/98) on the common position of the council (c3-0310/98) on the common position of the council (c3-0310/98) on the common position of the council (c3-0310/98) on the common position of the council (c3-0310/98) on the common position of the council (c3-0310/98) on the common position of the council (c3-0310/98) on the proposal for a regulation (c3-0310/98) on the common position of the council (c3-0310/98) on the common position of the council (c3-0310/98) on the common position of the european parliament (c3-0310/98) we too felt that the situation on the ground was very serious.
i even took industrial waste out of a mountain that had been labeled as household waste, and we also saw a nonfunctioning incinerator - or so it seemed.
barroso says, choose sustainable growth.
− the economic partnership agreements should promote trade between the eu and papua new guinea and fiji and contribute to trade, development, sustainable growth and poverty reduction.
it is also an area where the environment is very vulnerable, mainly due to pollution from europe, north america, russia and china.
if economic activity is to intensify in the coming years, a balance must be struck between the environment and the economy, involving the local population.
the black sea is close by and is truly european, even from the energy point of view.
i believe that the diversification of our energy supply is a priority in a much broader context.
these are leading to a climate of fear and intolerance and, in the worst cases, extremism.
she defended, among others, zahra bahrami, an iranian-dutch citizen who was sentenced to death before dutch diplomats had talked to her, and in a climate of serious doubts about due process.
special times call for special policies and it is right that energy and innovation should be given a place on the council's agenda, especially as we are emerging from the crisis.
this will certainly help us to achieve the 2020 goals (sustainable, smart and people at work).
i would like to see an inquiry into the role that european companies played in the violations of human rights by hampering free expression, a free press and access to information and creating an environment in which human rights violations could go undocumented.
i am the rapporteur for the committee on petitions for the subject we are about to vote on: finding a breakthrough in the ongoing waste crisis in campania, which is the region surrounding naples in italy.
- the vvd in the european parliament voted today against a number of amendments to the report on waste electrical and electronic equipment.
at times of economic crisis we cannot afford to waste opportunities for growth and job creation because, while the european union is navel-gazing and preoccupied with our internal borders, the rest of the world moves on.
there are major problems, we know, environmental problems, slope erosion, water quality, and - more importantly - we are not making sufficient use of the potential this area has for citizens and businesses.
in europe we are very dependent on imports of raw materials for energy.
do not ask us for money to clean up your mess and waste and do not ask us for money to deter your immigrants.
a secure, sustainable and adequate pension is the guarantee that the european citizen wants.
the sustainability of pension systems is under pressure.
it would be nice if our current eu president would set the example with a successful gay pride parade in budapest on june 18, 2011.
the financial and economic crisis has made it painfully clear that our competitiveness and thus the sustainability of our social market economy is at stake.
that is why we must now learn from the crisis, to make better use of our internal market, to strengthen the sustainability of our pensions and to make the labour market work better too.
we all want a europe of sustainable economic growth, with healthy businesses and enough jobs for our citizens.
this is directly linked to the sustainability of public finances and the rules for a healthy euro area, the stability and growth pact.
at the euro area level, agreements are needed to ensure that member states reform their pension systems to ensure sustainable public finances.
and that in an already highly polarized political climate.
the european union is demonstrating through this agreement that it is not closed off from open and sustainable trade, despite the protectionist tendencies of others.
this branch of the bank's activities must continue, but of course with procedures in which all local stakeholders are heard, according to clear criteria of sustainability and social justice.
but with this new dimension of its activities, the eib is an indispensable instrument for the european union's development policy, with a clear commitment to equal opportunities in developing countries, in sustainable economic growth.
we're also going to invest in climate change in these countries, of course.
finally, i would like to hear from the commissioner how it is that the commission's website mentions greenpeace as a participant in the implementing geological disposal of waste - technology platform, when i have in my possession the correspondence between greenpeace and the commission which shows that greenpeace's application for participation has been explicitly rejected by the commission.
in particular, we are concerned about the climate of fear that is created by the execution of juveniles, despite yemen’s commitment to the international community not to execute juvenile offenders and the reflection of that commitment in its own penal code.
but let us look at the issues that come together in maritime policy - i am thinking here of transport, all the new methods involved, the environment, the economy, you spoke of sustainable development, of eu-2020, the energy challenge and of course the revision of our fisheries positions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the report does not make this situation right, but seeks to impose a number of taxes from the eu, including a financial transaction tax and an energy tax.
that would be climate change and development cooperation.
and where industry - as you, commissioner, have already said - is not the enemy but the supporter of sustainability.
the aim is to encourage cleaner production and more sustainable products, because i believe that is ultimately the future of europe.
i am thinking of the energy sector, the aerospace industry or the automotive industry, which is turning like a whistle at the moment.
in our resolution, parliament calls on the iranian authorities to cooperate fully and unconditionally with the iaea, the international atomic energy agency, in vienna.
not only because of the repression, but also because of the oppressive socioeconomic situation and the climate of unfreedom.
i would be very grateful if you would follow the american example in drawing up such a list, because then we would not only be dealing with the nuclear problem of the people who are proliferating and thus endangering global security, but also with the bad climate in iran.
yes, we do want economic governance, but we want balanced governance with both fiscal sustainability and social guarantees.
in the interests of economic opportunity and sustainable relations with the rest of the world, respect for human rights and minorities in the broadest sense is essential.
we must find out why the international atomic energy agency’s warning was not followed up; there was no discussion about this warning.
you must now go further and make it clear, because what you said last week was that we must have a debate on europe, the future of europe without nuclear energy.
many studies show it time and time again, scientific studies: you can achieve your environmental goals, and you can do that without nuclear power.
it can: europe fully on renewable energy.
it's a political choice whether you're for nuclear energy or not.
and it is not for us to defend why we are against nuclear energy.
the people who are in favour of nuclear energy should explain why.
in addition to the huge loss of biodiversity, tar sands oil has extremely high co2 emissions.
biodiversity and co2 emissions are, in my view, sufficient reasons to oppose the exploitation of tar sands in canada and in other countries.
benefits and positive aspects include agreements on labour standards for airline staff, sharing of good practice on noise reduction, enhanced cooperation on the environment, etc.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has also called for the introduction of a new system of checks on the safety of foodstuffs.
the socialist and christian-democratic ruling clique ensures that there is always a majority in parliament to waste even more money.
fine, it's obvious... and then have the nerve to talk about sustainability and responsibility.
benefits and positive aspects include agreements on labour standards for airline staff, sharing of good practice on noise reduction, enhanced cooperation on the environment, etc.
the 2012 budget shows waste, especially on a nonsensical project like the house of european history.
i hope that the waste of money for the coming year will be limited and actually stopped.
in the present economic climate, i take it for granted that the european parliament is making a budget that is frugal.
we are talking about biodiversity.
i'll name a few: climate and co2 targets, socioeconomic equality, fair labor conditions and of course more solidarity, or socioeconomic redistribution, and certainly more money to spend on it.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that the community's energy policy is not in line with the community's energy policy.
but we must rethink our future and develop renewable energy sources and energy efficiency in an ambitious way.
these include proposals for an active role for the eib in measures to combat climate change and for a greater role for the eib in microfinance.
it has a sustainable development clause, but it's toothless.
nature and the environment are dealt with in the text before us.
i am very pleased with the savings we have found, even if they coincide with sustainability.
the citizens equate europe with a waste of money.
the package should pave the way for sustainable public finances and economic growth.
i would therefore call on the council to support parliament's ambition, more accountability and public debate in this parliament, more involvement of national parliaments, no back and forth in the council if the commission's opinion is not to your liking; the package must include a strong economic leg in addition to a strong monetary leg, including the europe 2020 strategy to ensure the sustainability of our social market economy for all our 27 member states; i therefore call on you to show your determination at the ecofin next week.
innovation is the way out of the financial and economic crisis, because innovation is going to solve the problems we all face, such as ageing, climate change, the scarcity of raw materials, and it will also put an end to the financial and economic crisis right away.
we hope that innovation will bring all of these together, give the economy a big boost, and in the meantime move towards that sustainable society.
we are in unison here: we want to boost economic growth and move towards a different, sustainable social model.
let us change our economic model, move towards a sustainable model and create jobs.
this climate of fear and intimidation and the breaches of human rights must end.
after many years of pushing and pulling, we finally seem to be taking that step towards sustainable national accounts and that is sorely needed, because let's be very honest the economic system we have right now simply doesn't work.
the damage to the environment and nature can still be done at virtually no cost.
why is renewable energy more expensive than conventional energy?
these european environmental economic accounts are necessary for the transition to a truly sustainable economy.
i very much hope that this will lead, for example, to the elimination of the hundreds of billions in subsidies which are still having a detrimental effect on nature and the environment in the world.
the first is that there must be incentives to promote sustainability, not just to increase burdens.
it is clear that with this proposal the european parliament is turning the neck of road transport over to climate hysteria.
finally, we have now agreed to pass on the costs of using infrastructure, noise and air pollution to the carrier.
if we as countries build infrastructure, how do we ensure that this is also true across borders in the field of energy and networks?
we have 2020 targets for a smart economy, a sustainable economy.
the structural funds must also respond to the new challenges, such as energy saving.
sustainable energy - that means infrastructure, and we need money for that - foreign policy - the arab spring: what is the european response?
we need european money for this too - poverty reduction inside and outside the eu, climate change, innovation, all reasons to act at eu level.
the report states that measures to combat climate change should not be financed from the development budget.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
- mr president, the committee on the environment can also be satisfied with the report as it stands.
it focuses on the scarcity of raw materials, the threat to biodiversity, the development of renewable energy, and above all - which i think is very important - the importance of sustainability for our economy.
that is why i have tabled again on behalf of my group the amendment which was adopted in the committee on the environment to reduce subsidies which have a harmful effect on the environment in the years to come, up to 2020. it is in these times of scarcity that we should not have such subsidies.
the negotiations on the energy chapter are also lagging behind.
agreements must be reached for a solid, transparent and rules-based energy partnership.
that is good for the level playing field and also good for the investment climate.
then a discussion which has not yet been sufficiently carried out: what will you do about the recommendations of the international atomic energy agency following the fukushima disaster?
the ppe therefore advocates sustainable public finances and not the allowance of a 5 or 6% budget deficit.
i would like to call on all colleagues who think sustainable public finances are important to support the six reports tomorrow.
it seems to me a very good idea, especially when it comes to something that moves so many people like nuclear energy and nuclear waste.
– madam president, if members look at their e-mails and all the requests from lobbyists and industry, and the pros and cons on the climate, they can conclude that climate is very clearly back on the political agenda.
that is a very good thing, because climate has never been off the scientific agenda.
if you look at how science has been evolving meanwhile, the arguments for stronger climate policies have become stronger and stronger every day.
however, in the political field, it was rather quiet on the climate front after copenhagen and cancún.
it is not only a climate argument any more.
if you look at the new industries relying on climate policies, they are asking for more ambitious climate policies.
but look too at all the letters from industry, really lobbying for going to 30% because it is in their interest; it helps their profits if we step up our climate ambitions.
this very clearly indicates that there is a fundamental shift in the debate on climate policies.
this is very important, because that is the way to become less dependent on oil; that is the way to harvest the health co-benefits; that is also the way to really harvest the potential of energy savings.
so energy savings are also a crucial part of the report because, if we meet our energy savings targets, we are already on the path of achieving 25% domestically in the eu.
this is also a discussion on the adjustment of the emissions trading system.
if we are stepping up climate ambitions through energy savings and we only do something relating to energy savings, the carbon price will go down; studies estimate from eur 15 to eur 0 per tonne carbon.
we will have a majority in parliament, as we will see tomorrow, and a majority in the council to really step up our climate ambitions and make sure that the true future economy is the green economy.
madam president, let me be very brief: we have two reports to go, and the climate debate is a crucial one because we are sending a signal to the council, which is starting tonight.
i urge that when a list of options for greening services is being drawn up, projects that create a win-win situation for the environment and farmer be sought out, leading to further innovation and sustainable growth.
an example of this is the conversion of manure into energy.
let us be honest, without health, environmental and socioeconomic reasons as justification for a ban on gmo cultivation by member states, this piece of legislation is unnecessary.
the safety of humans, animals and the environment must be a central concern and the lepage report reinforces the arguments on the basis of which member states can restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos.
in the energy infrastructure sector, we are also talking about greening.
if you're really talking about making energy infrastructure more sustainable, then there needs to be a lot more money to make sure that we prioritize savings and renewable energy.
no clearly visible information for consumers on energy, fats, sugars and salt.
these member states - and among them my own country, the netherlands - are showing that they are not looking ahead, that they are trying to win the first elections, but not to build a sustainable europe.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
how do we deal with our own waste?
if we look at one ton of electronic waste, there's 150 grams of gold in there.
you say that we must take the environment into account.
sustainability is the key word here.
the need for raw materials must be met in a way that does justice to the countries of origin in terms of human rights, the environment, fair and open trade and stable markets.
firstly, it produces renewable energy; secondly, it reduces the environmental burden; and thirdly, it produces as a final product a valuable mineral concentrate, also known as digestate, which can replace fertiliser, and thus phosphate.
i would like to see an efficiency target similar to the energy targets.
but i would also like to see that as far as waste is concerned - which you also consider very important - that we do indeed remain on top of that waste in order to be able to process it.
europe is only too keen to have a hand in imposing additional obligations on export credit institutions in areas such as social and environmental protection.
companies and institutions from other oecd countries, such as the us, canada and turkey, do not have to meet the absurd climate targets that europe is imposing on itself.
i should like to point out to my colleague mrs auconie that, though we keep stressing the need for changes to benefit the economy, we should be clear that, as achim steiner said today in mexico, by tackling black carbon we are not only addressing climate change but also improving our air quality.
if you look at the health co-benefits we are talking about the possibility of saving billions of euros by reducing our black carbon emissions, so it is not only environmentally but also economically a very clever thing to do.
i have a question for the commissioner as regards black carbon, which was specifically mentioned by achim steiner, because while we say it is very important we know that in europe around 50% of black carbon emissions come from domestic combustion.
also, 20% of black carbon emissions come from non-road machinery, and we know that this year the commission – albeit not your dg, commissioner – proposed lower emission limits and greater flexibility in that area.
so can we expect more surprises when it comes to black carbon?
we know aviation will be covered by the emissions trading scheme in the coming year, but does the commission have any specific plans concerning the issue of the formation of contrails and cirrus?
we know that these can have a huge different impact on climate change as well, especially along aircraft flight paths, and the issue could be addressed in cooperation with meteorological institutes.
finally, what can we expect on nox emissions by the aviation sector, because action was promised in 2008, and we are still anxiously waiting for a proposal from the commission?
war and climate change are causing this kind of famine.
what strikes me is that if we have to vote in this parliament on tightening our standards on co2 emissions, so as to reduce global warming, our wallets are closer than the mouths of the citizens of the horn of africa.
we always talk about research as the source of growth, but it's not just research, it's the whole of society, it's a mindset, it's above all the business climate.
yes, we must sow growth, but that does not mean we must go to waste.
the commission has also been very active in the area of the environment, and has been very active in the area of the environment.
the report also acknowledges the contribution of the tourism sector to the eu 2020 strategy with its absurd climate targets.
from climate policy to labour law, europe is trying to impose a socialist agenda on all sides.
does anyone really believe that developing countries are waiting for european social standards and climate objectives?
we don't have time to waste.
that is short-sighted because we benefit from stable neighbours, simply because of our dependence on energy from that region.
both the republic of cyprus and turkey are responsible for doing their utmost to establish a positive climate for negotiations to make sure a historic window of opportunity will not close down.
i believe that a contemporary and more economically-oriented shakespeare could now write ‘to be sustainable or not to be at all’.
the world is currently developing towards a green economy; an economy where sustainability is a key condition for being competitive.
leading companies are aware of this and are investing in that vision, but unfortunately most companies still consider sustainability as something which costs a lot of money.
i am afraid that governments speaking in quite general terms do not deliver on what they agree to do in international agreements, but is a clean environment and the conservation of species not a universal right just like human rights?
of course it is; that is why i strongly endorse the establishment of an international environmental court.
it sends a clear message out into the world that environmental issues are trans-boundary and should be dealt with as such.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group the rio+20 resolution shows ambition in the field of sustainable development, with perhaps the most important point being the move away from nuclear energy.
it is not a question of whether nuclear energy will bring the world to its senses, but when.
the energy demand is great, but destroying the environment and social stability with nuclear energy is certainly not the solution.
as with the rainforest, the rules are: a better environment starts with you.
nuclear energy has very great dangers, as we have seen in japan.
this leads to social and environmental instability.
there are plenty of other sustainable solutions where we don't have nuclear waste that we can continue to use in europe.
the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8))
if we were to put all the billions of dollars in subsidies that go to innovation in nuclear power into real development of renewable energy, using water, solar and wind, we would be much further than investing in nuclear power and maintaining it.
we need to look at truly sustainable forms of energy.
the inclusion of environmental and social costs in the price of products?
these agreements must be about sustainable fisheries management, i.e.
president, twenty years after the last sustainability summit in rio de janeiro, we have not really come very far.
biodiversity is still declining worldwide.
greenhouse gases are increasing.
where is poland when we're talking about an ambitious climate agenda?
the point of this question is that the costs that the electricity sector can pass on to the energy-intensive sectors - think steel and chemicals, aluminium - are now really threatening the competitiveness of those companies.
secondly, one more question: the german exit from the nuclear sector: what impact does this have on the rising costs for energy-intensive industries in germany?
the commission has also been very active in the area of the environment.
but the restrictive rules are a trap for this long-term, for sustainability and innovation, and also for employment.
instead, it should be about sustainable, climate-friendly and co2-neutral procurement and public procurement that supposedly promote the 'european social model'.
banks must be made sustainable, because it is unacceptable for citizens, for our taxpayers, that banks have to be bailed out time and again with taxpayers' money.
parliament even manages to ask for more money than the commission for certain things, such as 3 million for the turkish cypriots, millions more for money-grabbing agencies, 20 million for pilot projects, 139 million for hopeless projects such as climate change, wind energy and ideas, 27 million extra for developing countries such as iran, iraq, yemen, latin america.
we have been blind to the side effects and the long-term effects, including on the environment, for too long.
i recognise that this would fit in with another green objective, namely that of reducing co2 emissions, which is a good objective, but it is not very realistic.
the reason was a complaint about the commission's refusal to give access to letters from porsche to former commissioner verheugen on co2 emissions from cars.
the commission, through its fear of publicity, is creating a climate of suspicion in this parliament and among the public.
bees are insignificant but useful to agriculture and our ecosystem.
nor are we concerned about the far-reaching effects of gmo monoculture farming, the radiation from gsm traffic, climate change or the fine particles from diesel engines that could subtly disrupt the navigation of bees.
for once, can we not be concerned with making money but with the environment, food supply, animal welfare and hobby hunters?
the resolution calls for "more sustainable consumption patterns" to reduce co2 emissions; consumers should be made more aware; and 'ensure that consumer policy is better aligned with social and environmental objectives'.
this is where the political weight of the eu has to be most effective in working at a world order based on the rights of citizens, on the rule of law, on democracy, social rights and sustainable development.
- we all know that in cancún the united nations was saved, not the climate.
so climate must be at the top of the agenda in durban right now.
if you look at what china is doing in terms of investment in renewable energy, but also in terms of energy saving, china is the country with which we as europe have to make deals.
australia already has plans where carbon taxes are higher than in europe.
in japan, they have a more energy-efficient society.
europe really needs to ensure that we maintain that leadership, and that means also that our own ambitions, our own climate ambitions, need to be clearly raised.
mr president, the un conference on climate change in south africa is about to discuss climate.
it is possible that now something is finally going to happen to improve the political and social climate in south africa, which can be terribly described under the present anc apartheid regime.
so the pvv is a big supporter of climate change in south africa, but that's not what's going to be discussed at this conference.
unfortunately, it's about the supposed climate change again.
moreover, the ipcc itself seems to have finally come to the realization that global warming is hardly demonstrable.
i quote from the draft report for durban: "the uncertainty about possible changes in climate extremes for the next few decades is quite high, because climate change signals will prove to be quite small compared to natural climate fluctuations".
that is not the basis for a sustainable existence and a sustainable economic policy.
because, in addition to many other crises, economic crisis, climate crisis, there is of course also the scarcity crisis, which we can solve in different ways.
i also have a question about energy efficiency, the energy saving agenda.
it's very, very important for climate change that we all around the world look not just at renewable energy, but also at energy efficiency, in our own countries, but also in the developing countries.
the member states have set themselves specific objectives: 75% participation of men and women, lifting 20 million people out of poverty, fighting climate change, investing in innovation, and they also have their measures to achieve these targets monitored by the commission.
energy, visa facilitation, investment in industry, but also reciprocal conditions and non-discrimination.
but there is another crisis: the climate crisis.
it started with a kind of false start at the environment council in june with a veto by the polish minister of the environment to block any conclusion on the future of climate policy.
it was more concerned with maintaining the hot air, the excess emissions, than thinking about how we can take action internationally.
the greens wonder why the poles do not see the need to solve the climate crisis together with the euro crisis.
an economy that's going to get back on track and solve the climate crisis.
unfortunately, you failed to lead europeans in the climate crisis.
so congratulations on the euro crisis story, but unfortunately we have to give you an understatement on climate policy.
- the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0177/97).
a human rights organisation or an environment organisation – are they not lobbyists acting on behalf of the citizens?
under the guise of climate objectives, the efficient aviation and road transport sectors can reap the benefits of these rail losses.
president, while brussels bureaucrats are striving for a single internal transport area, rail is being favoured over road and air transport for the sake of climate objectives.
the intelligent energy for europe programme worked, as you say, it reached the citizen and it reached smes.
the murder, which can perhaps be labelled as an ‘incident’, took place in a climate of increased pressure on human rights, civil society and opposition parties, and notably liberal parties.