flegt is important for reducing poverty, protecting the environment, curbing deforestation and developing diversified economies in many countries.
flegt has the potential to make global trade in timber fairer, more sustainable and more environmentally friendly.
climate change is not the only factor, but so are the developments in disaster detection and communication technologies.
while solar and nuclear energy can replace oil, nothing can replace food from the earth.
agricultural policy must respond to european and global challenges, especially when we consider that according to the world food and agriculture organisation, food production must increase by at least 70% to meet the world's population, which is expected to exceed 9 billion by 2050. it is therefore clear that the cap should increase food security by increasing productivity while promoting an environmentally sustainable food policy.
that is why i would like to join in the congratulations that in such a short time, in the framework of the priorities it has set, it has tackled the economic crisis in europe, protected europe's natural environment, built an open and secure european union, built a coherent social model in the european union and laid the foundations for the union's common foreign policy.
with a growing population, climate change, and natural disasters, global food security is at risk.
world food production will have to increase with less water, energy, fertilizer and pesticide use and less land.
the eu must continue to ensure food security for its citizens and contribute to the world's food supply, while working better and more coherently with the rest of the world, in particular developing countries, to help them develop their agricultural sectors in a sustainable way in the long term.
we are now specifically discussing energy markets, but the labour market is also part of the structural reforms needed to increase europe’s competitiveness, especially in those countries that are now most vulnerable.
as you said, it is a democratic state in a very difficult environment and we fully recognise the right of israel to exist.
we now come to the second part of question hour, a specific and concrete topic on innovation and energy.
regarding the first part of his intervention, we do not have the means – and it is not our priority now – to explore, or support the exploration of, other sources of energy in europe.
something has been achieved already – for instance bemip, the baltic energy market interconnection plan, for the baltic countries.
i have just been to azerbaijan and turkmenistan in connection with work on the southern gas corridor, a new potential means of bringing energy – in this case gas – to europe.
this is where i believe the european union can make some investments in energy infrastructures.
let me tell you – i think it is an important point – just on energy and the internal market for energy, we have now 77 infringement procedures with member states in general, and 55 on the internal market.
− you know the position of the commission regarding nuclear energy.
no one is forced to have nuclear energy, but in fact it is true that nuclear energy is, in terms of climate change, less polluting than other sources of energy.
− the internal energy market legislation sets high standards of consumer protection with regard to the provision of a minimum service, transparency of billing, effective complaint handling and so on, and it provides choices to consumers.
regarding lower energy bills, we think that, in the medium term at least, in a real integrated energy market, true competition can achieve more than the current situation, in which there are many dysfunctions and examples of dominant market positions.
regarding funding for energy security projects, as i said earlier, we certainly intend to propose it in the next financial perspectives.
colleagues, thank you for the discussion on innovation and energy which is a very important topic as we know very well.
we may be able to finance for the first time in the current period a research infrastructure project which is also included in the esfri roadmap, because the study of this project has shown that it is a very sustainable impact in a region beyond the project itself, precisely because it creates jobs, not only for researchers but also for subcontractors, because basic research infrastructure also needs subcontracting and service.
in this context, i think that we should not make a difference in terms of where people are employed, but the objective must be to further improve the individual quality of qualifications, to make people fitter against the background of an increasingly mobile working environment, in order to avoid unemployment here if possible.
that is why the innovation and energy policy will be discussed in a few days' time at the february council.
if it is strong, it will respond to global competitiveness challenges, demographic challenges, environmental challenges, climate challenges and security challenges.
the hungarian presidency will also focus on strengthening economic policy coordination, promoting economic growth and sustainable economic growth for job creation.
we support the creation of a favourable business environment for small and medium-sized enterprises.
energy policy and innovation are among the key issues of the hungarian presidency, which we will discuss at a joint summit on 4 february.
i would like to inform you that, in hungary's view, it is crucial to overcome the remaining regulatory obstacles in the field of energy policy and to create the missing infrastructural links in order to create a real and viable energy market in europe.
equally important is the hungarian presidency's objective of having a diversified energy supply chain in europe.
the european energy policy is about to make a breakthrough, and the member states have concluded agreements - i will sign the slovak-hungarian agreement with the slovak prime minister next week - which will allow the first north-south gas distribution system from the baltic sea to the adriatic sea, including romania, to the black sea, to become operational, to become a full-fledged interconnector.
ladies and gentlemen, the hungarian presidency's agenda includes the danube strategy and the conviction that the union must continue to play a leading role in the global fight against climate change, and we would therefore like to see the results of the cancun summit in december 2010 enter the implementation phase so that we can continue negotiations with a view to reaching legally binding decisions by the end of 2011. ladies and gentlemen, my time is running out of courtesy, so i will just mention that the hungarian presidency will discuss family policy and the demographic situation, and i would like to avoid provoking interinstitutional debates, but hungary could contribute to the european union taking a clear and firm position on religious freedom and standing up against the persecution of christians.
i wish you, prime minister orbán, as effective a european presidency as you have been... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, the hungarian presidency has a unique opportunity to put into practice energy security for europe.
what we expect from the hungarian presidency is that it will utilise the geometry of the union in the form of a triangle: a north-south baltic-adriatic axis or corridor, with energy ports in poland and croatia, complemented by the caspian gas pipeline supplying the eu directly, separately and independently, initially from azerbaijan and turkmenistan.
so a new source of energy security for europe is the ultimate challenge for the hungarian presidency.
the three imperative aims are to build interconnectors, to ensure adequate funding and to boost the external dimension of eu energy policy because energy is a public good for the union, it needs to be europeanised, the policy must be based on solidarity, and our political will should guarantee its implementation.
i hope that the eastern partnership summit in may will not only be a summary of the two-year period of implementation of this initiative, but that it will bring concrete results in the areas of visa-free travel, trade and energy.
the sustainable use of resources, as one of the priorities, is a continuation of the approaches of the previous presidencies (spanish, belgian) and reflects the commission's strong activity in this area.
europe is striving for sustainable growth, which must be delivered through job creation and social inclusion.
in view of the need to increase the security of gas supply, we should take action as soon as possible to establish a common energy policy.
the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of experts in the field of environmental protection.
- once again, i would like to remind the european parliament of the importance of forests for the climate, water management, agriculture and culture of a country or region, especially in rural areas.
therefore, we should support this opposition in their efforts to create a political representation here in brussels that would represent the interests of this environment, but also of all free belarus towards the european union and the member states in the political forum.
and today, when we talk about the 2009 report - i agree with the criticism here - i think there is a lack of elements to assess what effects this aid has had and whether it has really restructured the industry in a sustainable way.
competition in the pharmaceutical and energy markets should be improved.
the most important thing for me in working on this report was to reinforce the importance of research and monitoring of environmental change, which is crucial for political and economic decision-making.
that's a shame, because it's undeniably the science that allows us to assess the environmental impact of economic change in this region.
even in areas covered by international conventions and treaties, there has been a significant restriction on freedom of action and research in the last two or three years, often under the guise of environmental protection.
climate and ocean processes in the arctic have a significant impact on climate and environmental change, so freedom of research is extremely important to understand what is happening not only there, but especially here.
i think this way of thinking guarantees the efficiency of the black sea synergy in the future, especially in the energy sphere.
it's not a wish concert, it's not like you can solve energy problems when russia doesn't want a pipeline and we do.
therein lies the solution to our energy problems; therein lies the transportation routes that are critical to our economy; therein lies the sources of instability that can be a major threat to us.
the adoption of the agreement identified the building of energy links between the black sea countries and the european union as one of the priorities.
we can't do this, the energy report records are insufficient.
the black sea has become an important region for the transit of energy raw materials and for future projects of importance to the union, such as the nabucco project, which is strategically important for the diversification of gas supplies.
the priority for the near term is to ensure sustainable growth through increased employment, which will in turn lead to a strengthening of our competitiveness.
the climate changes in the far north will have a tremendous impact on all of humanity.
the arctic is also a region of resources, such as hydrocarbons, and of potential for renewable energy, such as wind and hydro.
in all these areas, the european union can and should make a contribution, helping to develop the region and setting new standards in the quest to protect our planet's environment.
the black sea countries have a lot to offer us, from energy resources to natural resources.
the strategy also aims to ensure the eu's energy security.
we are about to decide to allocate 1 trillion euros to develop the energy infrastructure in the european union.
the only reason to spend public money on energy is to make sure it's safe.
the european union's energy security depends on deep diversification, which implies not only new transmission routes but also access to new sources of raw materials.
mr president, the extent to which the eu needs ‘energy energising’ today is obvious if we look at the energy security issue, the geopolitical situation around us and energy policy itself.
four years ago we had a serious energy crisis, and in 2007 we adopted an energy security report in this house.
four years later we are at the very initial stages of a common energy policy and energy security.
after four years of lost time, we are not prepared for the next energy crisis if it happens.
for that reason the key expectation is that the european council should provide a real change in terms of a genuine internal market for energy and genuine security of supply in a material and physical sense.
− mr president, this debate clearly confirms that both energy and innovation are absolutely crucial for the future of europe and the future of the european economy.
we would like to have a real internal market in the field of energy by 2014. we must finally unlock the potential of the internal market in this very important field of the economy.
therefore we need to push the european council to take real ownership of the internal market in the field of energy and to exercise ownership in relation to the very important transposition of the legislation, not only at european level but also at national level in each and every member state.
i think it is high time to overcome the situation whereby we have isolated energy islands.
he spoke about energy efficiency, the importance of education, the new impetus on protection of the environment, and the reduction of poverty.
i really believe that we are leaders where environmental policies are concerned.
you can check the position of the european union in all environmental summits, and see the energy invested in bringing the whole world onto the right course in this particular field.
concerning our goals – our famous 2020 goals – we are doing quite well regarding the reduction of emissions.
we are also doing quite well in increasing the share of renewable resources in all our energy production.
but it is true – and i have to admit this here – that we are lagging behind in meeting the targets for energy efficiency.
we all know that the cleanest energy is safe energy.
i witnessed an extremely valuable discussion here in parliament, which will contribute to friday’s discussion by the heads of state and government on energy and innovation issues.
i wholeheartedly understand parliament saying that what we are doing for energy or innovation is not enough.
we are very committed to the lisbon treaty’s provision on the formation of the european internal energy market; we are greatly committed to moving in that direction.
i do not want to go into details because i think vice-president šefčovič was very detailed on all the aspects of the future common energy policy in europe.
a strong europe cannot live without strong common policies and european energy and european innovation policy should be one of those.
i very much hope that in the future all kinds of discussions will be dedicated to energy and innovation and not mix up the presidency with some aspects of certain political parties.
the energy summit this week will highlight the importance of energy solidarity.
the most effective ways of ensuring security of energy supply are: the full single market, the pan-european network, law enforcement and transparent rules.
instead, they prefer to believe in their own domestic energy solutions and to bargain with suppliers from third countries.
we should therefore heed the recent calls by european energy companies for market liberalisation and full implementation of eu energy legislation.
in creating a pan-european network, we must also, as president barroso said, put particular emphasis on investing in countries with very underdeveloped and outdated energy infrastructure.
we cannot afford a two-speed europe in energy.
mr president, i believe that at the next summit on 4 february, the european energy council should seek to ensure equal treatment for all energy sources, both conventional and non-conventional.
particular emphasis should be placed on indigenous energy sources, including fossil fuels (coal, shale gas), in order to ensure the eu's energy security.
the use of these sources, with appropriate eu support, will not only be decisive for the security of energy supply, but also for competitiveness and employment in the eu.
at the same time, i would like to recall that ensuring adequate investment in energy infrastructure in the eu is a guarantee of the further development of the member states.
at the next european council summit, scheduled for 4 february, the heads of state or government will discuss two subjects: the community's energy policy and research and development.
the first will focus on energy efficiency, renewable energy and security of supply (a particular focus for poland), and the second on international scientific cooperation and simplification of eu science programmes.
however, i have the impression that the summit, which was convened under the motto of energy and innovation, will turn into a conference on current affairs - those within the european union (economic policy) and those seemingly further afield (the political situation in tunisia, egypt and belarus).
in formulating the response, it will be important not only to have the numbers (energy targets to be achieved by 2020), but also the genuine will of the countries.
europe consumes one fifth of the world's energy; how much time will it devote to it at friday's meeting in brussels?
ladies and gentlemen in the debate on the preparations for the european council on 4 february, the issue of the european union's energy policy was raised.
energy security is a priority area and the creation of a common energy market should be our common european objective, to which we must strive through integrated action.
alternative energy sources, which are becoming increasingly important in europe, were also a very important part of the debate.
energy policy is closely linked to the development of modern technologies and the creation of green jobs.
i have spoken many times in the european parliament on the policy of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, which is very strongly supported by the european parliament and the european commission.
unfortunately, the comments of many meps, pointing to the negative aspects of radical carbon reductions, are not taken into account by the european commission.
waste electrical and electronic equipment is the fastest growing waste stream in the european union.
this is a multifaceted problem, because on the one hand it is about protecting the environment and human health, and on the other hand it is about managing resources and raw materials efficiently.
the revision of the waste electrical and electronic equipment directive should take into account not only ambitious targets but also more realistic ones from the point of view of the new member states.
in many countries, there are numerous irregularities, such as the creation of fictitious waste collection records, or so-called invoice trading.
the huge increase in electronic waste is the most obvious example.
this has a significant impact on the environment.
i hope that the amendment of the e-waste collection and treatment regulations will allow for an increase in the recovery of valuable raw materials, which will bring economic benefits as well as environmental benefits.
the high selective collection rate recommended by the environmental protection committee should have an impact on the retention and preparation for re-use of these raw materials.
i agree with the need to stop the illegal export of e-waste outside the european union.
i also expect restrictions on the illegal disposal of waste from one member state in another.
− electrical and electronic waste is disposed of in a completely different way: electrical waste is dismantled and then recycled, while electronic waste is usually chemically treated after initial dismantling.
the two groups differ considerably in weight, which means that electrical waste raises the so-called 'collection rate', while electronic waste, rich in gold, silver and rare earth metals, often ends up in landfills.
the advancement of electrical and electronic equipment is the increase in its life span, the reduction of unit weight through miniaturization, the reduction of energy consumption.
unfortunately, the provisions of this directive do not stimulate innovation and waste streams are increasing at an alarming rate.
the funds thus raised can be used by innovative smes, which are market-oriented in the recovery of secondary raw materials from waste.
unfortunately, the lack of proper use of market mechanisms for the disposal of waste products means that this project needs to be refined, which is why i abstained.
the problem of waste management is not only a european union problem but a global one.
the collection and transport of waste equipment should be selective in order to ensure optimal reuse, recycling and the reduction of hazardous substances, which is of the utmost importance from the point of view of citizens.
− currently, waste electrical and electronic equipment is the fastest growing waste stream in the european union.
first, we should consider the health and environmental consequences of improper disposal of such equipment.
another challenge is to reduce the level of waste of raw materials (through recycling, the industry recovers valuable secondary raw materials) and the need to intensify the collection and proper treatment of waste.
according to data collected by the european commission, 85% of e-waste is now collected.
although as much as 65% of the equipment sold is subsequently collected, little more than 30% of waste electrical and electronic equipment is recovered in accordance with the requirements of the directive.
therefore, it is clear that the rapporteur agrees that it is the responsibility of the member states to implement the directive correctly and to establish effective procedures for the control of the storage and treatment of waste equipment.
nuclear energy, as well as the whole field of technology for the production of isotopes in experimental reactors for medical and other purposes, such as the production of measuring sensors and sterilisation, requires the development of appropriate safety standards.
it even has what some experts call the beneficial effect of hormesis, that is, the healing effects of high-energy radiation below a certain dose threshold.
all road transport operators, both passenger car manufacturers and light commercial vehicles manufacturers, should contribute to reducing overall co2 emissions.
i hope that this will not result in a sharp decline in new car sales, which will leave older cars with much higher emissions on the road for longer.
a compromise has been reached on commercial vehicles and their emission standards between the commission, the industry committee and the environment committee of the european parliament, which reduces this emission standard from 203 grams per kilometre to 147 grams over 10 years.
we hope that the cost increase of this lightweight vehicle fleet due to the reduction of emissions, the cost increase of their production will not be one of the significant barriers.
− during the legislative process, i submitted numerous amendments to the design for new light commercial vehicles, which aimed to reduce the original carbon dioxide emission figures and to increase the time to reach the target.
i believe that, as it stands, the regulation will contribute to reducing carbon emissions.
in such a case, the determination of the limit for the concentration of radioactive substances appears to be crucial for public safety and the environment.
we don't need to convince anyone of the importance of energy to developing countries.
and it's not hard to see why the world bank's role in developing countries' energy needs is significant.
i do not think, for example, that we can point out to the bank which types of energy are considered by that institution to be clean and which should be considered to be environmentally unsound or undesirable.
nuclear energy, for example, is widely used in the european union, and european countries that depend on coal or gas are somewhat disadvantaged, because they have to reduce emissions, which generates costs that are very unevenly distributed across the member states.
therefore, care must be taken in indicating to outsiders which types of energy should be developed.
i do, however, agree that it is worthwhile to support local projects, covering small areas, that it is worthwhile to support low-carbon projects, that it is worthwhile to support the idea of diversifying energy sources and avoiding energy dependence.
we would like the world bank to invest in renewable energy and energy efficiency, but we still have to keep in mind the ultimate goal, which is how access to energy would help people get out of poverty.
we want to make a few mistakes in one fire create the conditions for growth, reduce emissions, and take social and environmental aspects into account in new energy projects.
at the same time, i know that commissioner pielbags is putting a lot of emphasis on developing energy projects in developing countries, and i can confirm that the green paper is talking about this and that the european parliament should support this strategy.
as we have underlined several times, enlargement reinforces peace, democracy and stability in europe, serves the european union’s strategic interests and helps the eu to better achieve its policy objectives in important areas which are key to economic recovery and sustainable growth.
both mr swoboda's report and the reports by the presidency and commissioner füle indicate that the climate is very favourable for concluding the negotiations with croatia.
that is why we believe that the crisis is currently a key factor in motivating member states to adopt quickly a new european strategy for jobs and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the 2020 strategy confirmed five eu headline targets which constitute shared objectives guiding the action of member states and the union as regards promoting employment, improving the conditions for innovation, research and development, meeting our climate change and energy objectives, improving education levels and promoting social inclusion, in particular through the reduction of poverty.
madam president, my reading of the reality of today and of tomorrow is that european jobs will be sustainable only if they are underpinned by a competitive economy, and it is no secret that this not one of our strong points.
sustainable jobs can only be created if europe sticks together.
this is a prerequisite for the long-term, labour market-friendly professional development of women, the better exploitation of their potential, and the increase in the employment of women, including in particular in non-traditional occupational, low-carbon sectors of the economy and in high decision-making positions.
we must remember that a smart energy system is the future both in terms of the environment and these jobs.
such a system would allow us to decouple economic growth from energy consumption.
if this will be the case, we will be able to produce more for the same or less energy consumption and create thousands of jobs which can not be outsourced.
we have to make sure that smart energy does not remain a dream.
we are building today a whole new energy infrastructure in europe.
we have to ensure this lessens the divide between western and central europe in terms of sustainable jobs.
a two-speed europe on energy will not solve energy poverty or inefficiency.
we need a smart energy system for all european citizens at the same time.
simply put, we need smart energy jobs for all europeans, not just for those who would have received them even without europe.
at the last eu-croatia ministerial meeting in brussels on 22 december 2010, negotiators closed three important chapters, entitled 'justice, freedom and security'; 'foreign and defence policy'; and 'environment'.
closing these chapters means strengthening the croatian legal system and making progress in several areas at once, such as greater cooperation between croatia and the international community on military and civilian missions (foreign and defence policy) or guaranteeing better air and water quality for croatian citizens (environment).
the european investment bank should undoubtedly place particular emphasis on the integration of transport and energy networks, such as the nabuco gas pipeline project and other gas pipeline projects of particular importance to the european union.
the vast trans-danube region, which covers 14 european countries and has a population of 115 million people, from both eu and non-eu countries, required a single plan combining economic, environmental, social and cultural aspects (the four pillars of the strategy).
even if the killer is punished, there will still be a climate of hate, and legal discrimination against lgbt people.
i thank mr rivellini for his report, which sets out in a concrete and precise way the principles for managing the resources of the mediterranean and can contribute to the protection of this fragile ecosystem.
the atlantic ocean, as a dynamic area for shipping, fisheries, green energy and scientific research, offers us great opportunities for efficient development.
they should be used wisely, bearing in mind the important role of the community as a guardian of the environment, which the ocean ecosystem undoubtedly is.
the geographical and climatic conditions allow the production of high protein crops in the union to change its structure and even make it advisable for biodiversity and climate change mitigation.
the conditions for economic growth and recovery from the crisis are increased employment and the creation of high-quality, sustainable jobs.
these can be important sources of increased financial and economic capacity for the union, enabling the implementation of large and strategically important projects, including transport and energy.
−adequate tax systems are the foundation of sustainable economic growth and monetary stability.
the geographical and climatic conditions allow the production of high protein crops in the union to change its structure and even make it advisable for biodiversity and climate change mitigation.
moreover, the studies presented in the report show that the cultivation of high-protein crops and the widespread use of crop rotation would reduce production costs and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
however, we want ambitious and equally qualified women to be elected to positions normally held by men, because research shows that this can contribute to better and more sustainable management of companies and, consequently, to better financial performance.
so the fundamental thing that we have to do today is to show the value of turkey as an energy partner of the union, as a political partner of the union for the future.
i think that the goodwill, the favourable climate and the support of turkey for the ongoing negotiations on cyprus, as well as the concrete contribution to a comprehensive solution to the problem, will contribute to the improvement of turkey's image in the european and international arena.
turkey is our strategic partner in economic, regional, energy, and military matters, and is a major player in the middle east.
it is also an essential element in the plan to diversify the supply of energy resources to europe.
the european union should therefore continue to actively build a positive relationship with turkey, inter alia, by increasing the financing of joint strategic energy investments such as the nabucco pipeline and by supporting the development of trade relations.
both the climate and energy package and the benchmarks directive will undoubtedly lead to a decrease in copper production, a metal that is known to be in great need of innovative and energy-efficient technologies, especially for the transmission of electricity and heat in heat exchangers.
the second pillar concerns the strengthening of sustainable supply within our union.
that is why we have updated the natura 2000 implementing rules, in agreement with commissioner potočnik, so that the interpretation is not detrimental to extractive activity, but at the same time continues to respect the environment.
our strategy is to promote recycling through actions to improve the implementation and enforcement of eu waste legislation.
europe cannot develop because of the lack of lanthanides, and especially of the samarium and neodymium needed to produce high-energy permanent magnets, which are used in wind power and electric car drives.
it is time to take care of the security of raw materials in the european union, just as we do with energy security.
the question is therefore: what role will gas play in the coming decades for heat generation, for conversion into electricity, for industry, as a driver in the transport sector and thus also in our energy roadmap towards 2050, in which it will have a prominent place?
it is a question of investment costs, and it is a question of what forecast you want to make for the price of gas in the energy mix.
on the other hand, it must be clear that there are environmental regulations for running water and groundwater, there are environmental regulations for the extraction of raw materials from the ground, there are legislation on 'hydrocarbon resources' with the aim of non-discriminatory access and environmental protection.
i am glad that we have succeeded in initiating a debate in the european parliament on the possibility of using gas from unconventional energy sources such as shale gas, tight gas and coalbed methane.
in the light of the recent conclusions of the european energy council on energy and the wide public debate, i believe that shale gas can become a form of energy diversification in the long term.
the european union should not be throwing open the door, but seeing how shale gas extraction in the united states, for example, has already revolutionized the energy market there.
especially since its reserves, according to the second strategic energy review, exceed four times the conventional gas reserves in the european union.
where possible, it should financially support research programmes that would allow the development of safe and economically viable technologies for extracting gas from non-conventional energy sources.
firstly, is the commission taking steps to carry out a preliminary analysis of the feasibility of the exploitation of gas from alternative sources in europe and is it preparing a technical and economic feasibility study of such extraction in the context of the work on the priorities for energy infrastructure up to 2020?
europe cannot afford to waste this potential, this opportunity.
i hope that we as europe will not waste this opportunity.
they have also brought tangible environmental benefits, for example by reducing coal mining and the resulting coal damage.
the exploitation of unconventional gas in europe is the best alternative in the face of parliament's high expectations to reduce co2 emissions and thus to reduce coal extraction.
so, if the oil is exploited, it will actually lower the cost of energy production, as an alternative to increasingly expensive and expensive imports.
and yet gas as a fuel will remain a key energy source for a long time to come, as the second strategic energy review shows.
so, given the current conflicts in north africa, for example, which are having an impact on the energy market, we should ask about the possibility of such alternative sources in europe itself.
of course, the question arises as to the environmental impact of such projects.
and if we want to meet our environmental goals, we have to, on the one hand, get the gas sources, and on the other hand, we have to be so precise about the technology and the way we use it that there is no far-reaching environmental damage.
i understand all these environmental concerns.
i would encourage the commission to be more active in supporting this research and to use the time which you say will be five years before we see the first results to help all those who are looking for methods which do not have a negative impact on the environment.
we are very pleased that you are supporting the hungarian presidency today and that you are also creating a climate in europe that is friendly to the european parliament today, because you know how important this house is, how important it is for the people of our country, for the decisions that are taken in the european union.
solidarity and unity in the energy market.
the aim of achieving a single energy market is closely linked to cohesion.
to reduce energy dependency, vulnerability and ensure the unimpeded flow of gas and electricity across europe.
the events in north africa also serve as a reminder of the importance of reducing unilateral dependence and linking disparate energy networks.
the completion of the internal energy market requires improvements, and for improvements there are resources, and for finding resources there is a broad consensus.
hungary will take the initiative in the development of the strategy and, among the practical tasks, will organise joint work on water management and environmental protection.
but beyond social measures, the key to eradicating poverty is the decisive rejection of prejudice and the creation of a supportive cultural and educational environment.
the atlantic region is particularly important for fisheries, transport and energy.
it is therefore essential to develop an appropriate strategy for the atlantic region that will enhance good governance and contribute to the protection of the environment and the improvement of the lives of the citizens of the region.
and i'm not talking about huge animal farms, but creating new ways to make it easier to grow, to grow, to produce healthy and organic food, to get energy from alternative sources.
in this respect, the europe 2020 strategy project seems to be an attempt at a new approach, taking full advantage of the possibilities of sustainable modernisation and the development of the industrial base of the member states, while ensuring high quality work.
the integrated industrial policy aimed at gradual sustainability, the transition from a predominantly manufacturing activity to a knowledge-based industry, is particularly promising.
the availability of raw materials, including energy, is a major challenge.
the geostrategic location of the area allows for the development of cooperation in the fields of maritime security, international trade, fisheries, as well as the protection of the marine environment and the conservation of biodiversity.
these adverse effects of competitiveness include: the energy- and raw-material-consumption model imposed by industry; competition based not on the superiority of solutions but on the financial advantage of rich monopoly corporations; cutting-edge competitiveness that concerns only the final processing phase and not gross competitiveness; i.e.
taking into account the preparation of raw materials for production; the takeover of raw-material and energy markets by transnational, often non-european, corporations; the increase in energy (and raw-material) prices through regulation of the eu member states' emissions trading systems; non-competitive competition imposed mainly by multinational, transnational, including financial corporations.
the increasing environmental requirements imposed only in the eu, the tolerance of dumping by asian producers, are accelerating the deindustrialisation of europe.
supporting smes, the backbone of european industry, through financial assistance for innovation and technology transfer and the integration of innovation and sustainability criteria in public procurement will be key.
the continued refusal to cooperate with the international atomic energy agency and the resulting lack of control over iran's nuclear programme make it necessary to consider taking decisive action against that country.
this tragedy, while moving, has also triggered the debate we are witnessing in europe today about the future of nuclear energy and europe's energy strategy.
we have recently adopted an energy strategy for europe up to 2020. at the moment it's being challenged as if, although in this strategy we accept nuclear energy.
it is an acceptable part of the energy mix of different countries.
i think that this discussion should also strengthen what we are asking for in our report - closer european cooperation in the field of energy.
today we must not only strengthen the security conditions but also the european atomic energy community and move towards a european energy community.
this must be part of the building of a common policy on nuclear energy.
the whole of europe's energy strategy is based on decentralisation and diversification.
maybe this form will be more acceptable to the public, because we're not going to eliminate this type of energy completely.
i would like to draw particular attention to two things: the supervision of the full implementation of the directive on the safety of nuclear installations and the adoption of the directive on radioactive waste.
at the same time, however, environmental requirements have increased, and environmental standards are coming into conflict with the quest for raw materials and the desire to exploit them at all costs.
those who profit from the processing of tar sands must allocate part of their profits, for example in the form of a deposit, to environmental protection.
the economic links between europe and canada are so strong that canadian industry, whether it wants to be present on the european market, for example in this field, or not, must adapt to european environmental requirements.
i am glad that the report covers such issues as energy in the broad sense, industry, scientific research and the development of education.
the agreement will also strengthen cooperation on environmental issues by requiring compliance and cooperation on the use of green technologies and on fuel and air traffic management.
what we decide in cooperation will also define the whole framework and whole environment for aviation in the world, so the cooperation is also extremely important for the whole world.
i will be going to washington in a few weeks’ time, and we have committed ourselves to work in five directions: first safety, second security, third technological cooperation – we signed an important agreement in budapest about interoperability of air traffic management systems which is extremely important for europe so that we do not lose our competitive advantages –, fourth the environment and fifth commerce or business.
in particular, i call for further liberalisation of transport rights, additional opportunities for foreign investment, a much more ambitious stance on environmental protection, better coordination of passenger rights policies to ensure the highest level of protection for passengers.
in addition, the agreement will contribute to strengthening the protection of workers' rights in the sector, increase cooperation on aviation safety and, through compliance, enhance cooperation on environmental issues.
moreover, convergence of rules could contribute significantly to the promotion of fair competition, in particular as regards state subsidies, social and environmental requirements.
the commission should therefore prepare itself to negotiate the next phase of this agreement, covering the following issues: further liberalisation of rights of way; additional opportunities for foreign investment; and the impact of environmental measures and infrastructure constraints on the use of rights of way.
the multi-stakeholder strategic partnership highlighted in many of the report's points should help avoid crises in eu-region relations and enhance europe's energy security.
as vice-president of the environment committee, i would like to emphasise the importance of the tourism sector to europe's economic, social and cultural development.
european statistics in this field can play a key role in the planning of a european strategy in this field, taking into account the respect for the environment.
properly processed and reliable data are essential to plan the framework of action in order to maximise profits and to respond to environmental threats.
i hope that this will contribute to the fruitful development of a sustainable tourism strategy.
if the countryside, agriculture in the european union, is not given the right support, it will be difficult to improve the role of women in rural areas, it will be difficult to encourage women to want to live there in difficult conditions, it will be difficult to achieve the objectives of this important policy, which are food security, environmental protection and territorial balance.
in the light of recent events in japan, energy policy, and in particular energy security in the broad sense, is a hot topic of discussion in all corners of the globe.
the fukushima disaster has shown how much work we need to do to create an efficient and environmentally friendly, but above all a secure energy grid.
let us support all efforts to develop new and safe sources of energy, and let human safety always be the primary consideration in all decisions.
some of the countries which are now members of the european union and which were candidate countries some time ago were – according to the negotiations – obliged to revise their safety standards and, in some cases, shut down certain nuclear energy installations.
as you know, the treaties give the member states some national competence in terms of energy, but we are also using the competence we have.
the individual approach is the right direction to take towards sustainable management of the fisheries sector.
and finally, to encourage, as chairman malcolm harbour and your committee have wanted, in some way, more responsible purchasing, more ecological or green purchasing and fostering innovation or social inclusion.
this includes, for example, the updating of the manual on green public procurement, which i am preparing with my colleague potočnik, the implementation of the european plan for energy efficiency - we are working on this with mr oettinger or mrs hedegaard - and the promotion of pre-market procurement projects, innovative procurement in general, with mr tajani and mrs geoghegan-quinn.
we should be directing much more of the cohesion fund's resources for environmental purposes to flood prevention.
i am convinced that a well-functioning single market will contribute to sustainable economic growth and therefore support the resolution.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its energy needs.
the flight of nuclear energy from the union will show the illusory nature of our efforts.
once again, we will hit the competitiveness of our energy sector and thus our economy and industry.
energy should not be purchased from nuclear power plants outside the european union that do not meet the highest safety standards set by endurance tests in the european union.
i therefore believe that the european union countries should not buy nuclear energy from these plants unless they pass the same strength tests as those required in the european union.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
but the money that the european union is going to spend on it should be better spent, it should go to the people who are concerned, it should sometimes bypass the states and the state administration, which is able to waste that money.
the union has vital economic and financial interests in these countries, which should be borne in mind, but the main emphasis should be on energy issues.
some of these countries may have alternative energy routes to russian pipelines such as sarmatya and nabucco.
our action will be developed around three axes: the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, the fight against climate change and support for the union's external policy.
the second is to combat climate change and its sometimes dramatic effects.
the fukushima nuclear accident and the challenges it has brought about further reinforce the need for massive investment in energy savings, renewable energy and new energy technologies.
in 2010, eib lending for projects that directly contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions amounted to almost €20 billion, or almost 30% of our total lending.
of these, loans for renewable energy projects amounted to 6.2 billion, mainly for wind and solar power projects.
loans for energy efficiency improvement projects amounted to 2.3 billion in 2010. they will increase in the coming years, as there is a huge potential for energy savings, especially in public buildings and housing in many european cities and towns.
we will continue to support energy savings, energy efficiency, renewable energy and, in addition, we are at the forefront of developing a methodology - inevitably complex due to technical difficulties - to more accurately assess the carbon footprint of all the projects we fund.
and this particular effort is a testament to our commitment to making the fight against climate change a major priority.
the commission shares the parliament’s view that support for the eu cohesion policy, as well as transition to low-carbon economies, are core targets for the eib.
consequently, the commission joined forces with the eib group to support convergence regimes with the joint financial instruments which we know very well – jaspers, jeremie, and the new addition, elena – to fight climate change.
the project bond initiative would support the financing of specific projects in the area of transport, energy and communications infrastructure, and potentially also in other sectors that can help lay the foundations for sustainable future growth and unemployment.
i agree with the conclusion that the european union must comprehensively assess its approach to nuclear safety, but we cannot force member states to abandon their own energy security, which is why i am glad that we have rejected the unrealistic and dangerous provisions in our resolution.
secondly, it does not indicate any way out of a completely new situation for the whole of energy policy.
for example, points 19, 20 and 21 could provide new ideas and directions for thinking comprehensively about energy efficiency, especially energy efficiency from primary sources, where the greatest reserves lie, especially with regard to fossil fuels.
the resolution only refers to renewable energy.
the fukushima case calls for a review of the entire existing energy policy of the european union.
i voted against this resolution because, apart from the prohibitions and moratoriums on the development of nuclear energy and the suggestion of a gradual withdrawal from nuclear energy (which is unrealistic), it does not bring anything positive, it does not offer any solutions for the future of energy in general.
the situation following the fukushima disaster has completely changed the philosophy of approach to the future of energy in europe and poland.
in our country, the 95% coal-based energy sector has already suffered as a result of the adoption of the climate and energy package.
the resolution only emphasises the importance of renewable energy, which in poland represents only 13% of the total, with a maximum of 20% of the total.
moreover, the referendum on nuclear energy, which the left is suggesting, will not take place in poland until then, so the conclusions of this resolution are premature.
these are mainly due to debt, high food and fuel prices and climate change.
the common fisheries policy, based on principles that protect the environment above all, must maintain the management and development of european fisheries at a sustainable level.
the reform of the cfp should therefore be stepped up considerably in order to safeguard the environment and ensure adequate protection for fishermen.
for example, the problem of social conditionality, of sustainability as we call it, should not be considered here because this is very clearly a measure that is limited in time.
the agreement that is being negotiated at the moment concerns the exchange of goods, services, investment, but it will also include sensitive social and environmental issues.
i'm sure this agreement will lead to a raising of various environmental labor standards, but we have to be careful here.
in addition, there is a lack of due progress in the areas of government procurement and services, the rules for the protection of intellectual property, including geographical indications, and the conditions for sustainable development, in particular the respect of standards in the production process in the context of creating a level playing field.
the union shall not accept the movement of goods which have been produced in such a way as to damage the environment or which involve the use of child labour.
i hope that, in the course of that scoping exercise, we can do away with a number of non-tariff barriers, and that this will create the right climate for us to get down to actual free trade negotiations with japan.
the commission announced its intention to present a green paper on forest protection and information in the context of the 2009 white paper on adaptation to climate change.
it was adopted in march 2010. the green paper set out the various socio-economic and environmental functions of forests and the challenges they will face in coming decades.
despite the fact that there has been a lengthy debate as to whether the eu needs a forestry policy or not, i am very pleased to see that appreciation of the economic, social and environmental functions of forests was a common theme in the stakeholder and council input and that this concern is again evident today in the report drafted by kriton arsenis.
likewise, there is a very great need for information at a comparable level across a wide range of forestry-related issues such as employment, stocks, biomass, fires, soil and forest carbon information and trends, forest health, biodiversity and water protection, and each institution lays great emphasis on finding means to achieve this.
armed with relevant useful and comparable information, we should in the near future be better able to provide eu added value across forestry-related socio-economic and environmental issues, thus paving the way for better eu input to help forests to continue to deliver their multiple benefits for us all.
in the context of climate change, it is crucial to ensure the safety of forests, as they are increasingly vulnerable to natural disasters.
we must remember the unique role of forests, which provide balance and biodiversity and are essential to the proper functioning of the economy, not only for the production of timber but also for other products and services, as a common public good.
i therefore believe that the establishment of a common european sustainable forestry management is of the utmost importance.
i am asking the commission to develop legally binding sustainability criteria for wood biomass.
therefore, increased controls are needed to prevent the destruction of aquatic ecosystems and the resulting ecological disaster.
some 115 000 people were evacuated from areas near the reactor, and some 220 000 people from belarus, the russian federation and ukraine were resettled after 1986. the devastation of this disaster on both health and the environment is very difficult to estimate.
the world health organization estimates that the number of cancer deaths caused by pollution from the plant explosion could be as high as 9,000. other sources estimate that about 200,000 people have already died from radiation sickness and that another 100,000 people may die in the future from cancer caused by the chernobyl disaster.
on the 25th anniversary, the european commission announced that it had committed eur 110 million to stabilise and protect the environment at the chernobyl nuclear power plant.
does the european commission have data on environmental pollution in the areas most affected by the explosion?
twenty-five years after the chernobyl nuclear disaster, we are becoming increasingly aware of the tragic consequences of a nuclear disaster for human health and even for the lives of people and the environment.
we need to set high standards for nuclear power plants so that they can gain more public trust than they have so far, as they are an important source of energy for europe.
we should also develop other possible sources of energy, such as shale gas, which offers many opportunities for energy production, so that we do not build up nuclear energy unnecessarily.
nuclear energy is an excellent tool for building europe's energy independence.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of radioactive waste.
i think that these issues should be included in the commission's communication on the external energy dimension.
it is also the energy that flows from us to europe, just like gas or other energy sources, and it should be covered by eu policy.
we must also work in parallel to europeanise energy policy.
all indications are that nuclear energy will remain an important source of energy in the near future, and it is therefore essential to ensure the highest possible level of safety in the energy sector.
but at the same time, the common agricultural policy must also respond to environmental and territorial challenges and objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, while supporting the competitiveness and sustainability of agricultural sectors and rural areas.
the cumulative effect of greening direct payments and better targeting of rural development measures will allow the cap to provide a stronger and broader response in terms of the provision of environmental public goods.
i think that the world saw that climate change is not the only reason why we have increases in food prices, but climate change is a threat multiplier.
however, i think that in many respects it is dawning on ever more countries, governments, businesses and sectors that there is a link between how we address climate change and how we provide security for people.
− the commission has actually already responded to similar written questions from the honourable member mr ziobro on the cost of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the european union by 2020 and on the question of carbon leakage, back in march and april 2010. the eu has managed to decouple its economic growth from its emissions.
eu gdp has increased by 45% since 1990 while emissions have been reduced by 13%, and that includes 2010 figures, meaning that was after we exited the crisis.
these figures show that continued growth can go hand in hand with reducing emissions.
for instance, it is actually estimated that, between 2005 and 2009, 550 000 new jobs were provided by the renewable energy industry alone.
firstly, with regard to carbon leakage, the commission would like to stress that in the latest amendment of the ets directive the european parliament and the council have decided to tackle this issue by allocating a higher share of free allowances for sectors and subsectors deemed to be at a significant risk of carbon leakage.
the commission's analysis published back in may last year confirmed that free allocation is an effective means to address the potential risk of carbon leakage.
moreover, the risks for carbon leakage have been reduced further, since now more than 80 countries, amongst which all emerging economies, are implementing the pledges they committed to in copenhagen and are implementing their domestic targets.
i must say that the commission has no evidence that companies are moving their production outside the eu due to climate policy.
secondly, the european commission has assessed in detail the costs and benefits of co2 emission reductions on the european economy in the framework of the climate and energy package agreed back in 2008. more recent analysis conducted in 2010 shows that the costs of meeting the 20% greenhouse gas reduction target have fallen by at least one third compared to the analysis made in 2008. now they are estimated at eur 48 billion, which represents 0.32% of the projected 2020 gdp.
in developing the climate and energy package, the commission has taken due account of the different circumstances in the member states in terms of economic development, wealth and energy mix.
in addition, the climate and energy package contains three specific mechanisms to balance overall costs across member states, so that efforts are shared in a fair and equitable manner.
i would be happy to share with the commissioner information on companies which decide to move their production outside the european union precisely because of the restrictions linked to the reduction of co2 emissions.
given that co2 emissions are unlimited and that once this production is moved, emissions will continue, which will have a negative impact on the environment - and this is inevitable - the eu economy will suffer because it exports jobs.
we know that, if we are going to be successful in implementing lisbon fully – and this is what the report says – we need that sustainable funding in the next framework as well.
similar conclusions were made in the gualtieri report, which pointed to widespread duplication of defence programmes leading to the waste of limited economic resources.
first, the union should define its common strategic interests, for example in energy security and neighbourhood policy.
the increasing importance of the increasing interdependence of international actors in the face of economic, environmental or energy problems determines the continuous changes in the external relations of individual countries.
it also highlighted what i consider to be a very important aspect of this cooperation, the issue of paying attention to environmental protection in the trade process and promoting climate change mitigation and the promotion of environmental and social standards.
both sides are also important investors, with foreign direct investment amounting to eur 200 billion in 2009. it is also worth noting that the rapid economic growth of the bric countries, the economic slowdown resulting from the global financial crisis, and the urgent need to access raw materials and renewable energy are very important challenges shared by both actors, which makes the negotiations even more urgent.
the need for the eu to work with the prime regions and to play an active part in shaping the international environment was therefore underlined.
the growing economic importance of asia, revolutionary movements in africa, the increased threat of terrorism, the need to build common, sustainable european raw materials strategies and the increasing prevalence of human rights violations are just some of the problems facing eu diplomacy today.
moreover, the idea of a common sustainable european policy often fails to meet the interests of the largest countries of the so-called 'old' union.
this double challenge makes achieving debt sustainability practically impossible.
governance for innovation must mean establishing new partnerships enabling efficient innovation systems that mobilise intellectual and entrepreneurial capacities, detecting also sleeping innovators – of which we have many in europe – through a business environment that is conducive to innovation, and particularly for smes, covering all sectors of the economy.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of renewable energy sources, such as the renewable energy programme, the renewable energy research programme and the renewable energy research programme.
as part of the preparation, we have invited mr reul, the chair of the committee on industry, research and energy, to talk about the committee’s representation at the heart of the innovation convention.
innovation, competitiveness, sustainability, creativity, efficiency - these are all beautiful words that fit perfectly into the trends in politics, the economy and the labour market.
these changes are designed to create a favourable environment for the proper development of the child.
the knowledge and skills of young people are essential for achieving smart and sustainable development.
to ensure europe's sustainable development, we must therefore devote more resources to developing innovation and research projects in the new countries of the european union.
the following changes are proposed: [monday]: the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe has requested a debate on the process of selecting a new managing director of the imf and representing the euro externally immediately after jo leinen's report on the european environmental economic accounts.
the debate on the procedure for selecting the new managing director of the international monetary fund and the euro area's external representation will take place immediately after mr leinen's report on the european environmental economic accounts.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr jo leinen on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european environmental economic accounts (com (2010) 0132 - c7-0092/2010 - 2010/0073 cod) (a7-0330/2010).
their modest contribution is negatively perceived and has a negative impact on the sustainable development of the community and its cohesion.
fisheries face many challenges and research and scientific support are powerful tools for further sustainable development of the sector.
but as europeans who are sensitive to environmental aspects, we should be tough and basically demand that canada meet our rigorous standards.
but we should not only focus on sustainable development, we should also address the issue of the extraction of substances that threaten life and health, such as asbestos, the use and extraction of which is banned in europe.
the commitments to reduce co2 emissions should be mentioned next.
the new competences and skills acquired by graduates from different types of schools are of strategic importance for economic growth, open up new opportunities for people, and provide the basis for sustainable development.
the basic and most important issue is the provision establishing the 'polluter pays' principle, according to which the use of road infrastructure by heavy goods vehicles emitting more pollution and noise than those equipped with euro v and vi engines will be subject to road tolls.
in addition, member states will be able to specify the use of the revenue from the charges collected, but at least 15% of the revenue should go to financial support for ten-t projects to increase the sustainability of transport.
the transport sector is not only a source of excessive noise and co2 emissions throughout the community, but also and above all a source of hundreds of thousands of jobs and an important part of the gdp of many member states.
i would particularly like to support a provision which is very important for the european environment.
crops located in the vicinity of frequented roads would also be much less exposed to exhaust pollution.
in my view, the introduction of the 'polluter pays' principle will reduce pollution and noise caused by heavy goods vehicles not equipped with euro v and vi engines which are not subject to road tolls.
in addition, the principle that member states will be able to determine the use of the revenue from the charges collected, but that at least 15% of the revenue should go to financial support for ten-t projects, will ensure that transport is more sustainable.
the costs of environmental pollution and noise, is more favourable than the previous decision, which was limited to covering road infrastructure costs.
it is also worth noting that the lower the environmental category of the truck, the lower the charges are to be.
the first item on the agenda is the report by mr salvador garriga polledo, on behalf of the special committee on political challenges and budgetary resources for a sustainable european union after 2013, on the report on investing in the future - a new multiannual financial framework (mff) for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe [2010/2211 (ini) ] (a7-0193/2011)
colleagues, as you see, we are witnessing a fundamental discussion on the future of europe and we are waiting for the standpoint of the commission.
innovation, the management of migration flows, the external responsibilities of the european union that are now so visible in the mediterranean area, energy efficiency and, above all, how to connect europe via the trans-european networks and the other cross-border connectors in energy systems.
it is a waste of time to develop the demands for own resources and thus to develop european taxes.
turning a blind eye to the waste of these resources is not the answer.
we now continue with the debate on the report by salvador garriga polledo on a new multiannual financial framework (mff) for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe.
the new challenges facing agriculture in the areas of environment, climate and welfare, and the unrealistic negotiations in the wto, are additional costs for farmers.
the changes that are expected are more funding for sustainable, smart development, focus on innovation, research, education.
a europe that provides its people with jobs, energy security and healthy food.
budgetary plans should take into account the key sustainable development objectives, while being flexible and targeted to specific actions.
on the other hand, it is important that the union financially supports energy projects and innovation.
two thirds of energy raw materials are currently imported from countries outside the union, mainly from russia.
the union must not forget that by investing wisely in energy today, it saves capital tomorrow.
the positive side is that additional resources will be created that can be invested in sustainable transport, in particular the opportunity to develop high-speed rail and waterways.
similar challenges are posed by climate change, unexpected resource shortages and biological threats, such as the recent e. coli situation in vegetables.
the main objective of the indect (english: intelligent information system supporting observation, searching and detection for security of citizens in urban environment) project, conducted by the academy of mining and metallurgy in kraków, is to develop research on information technologies that increase the security of residents of urbanized areas.
the right investment in research and development translates into the sustainable construction of a knowledge-based society, which is one of the most important components of economic strength.
in addition, the compatibility of canadian environmental standards with eu standards needs to be improved.
this means that companies, on their own initiative and independently of legal regulations, take action for society and the environment in their daily activities.
they are becoming increasingly sensitive to social and environmental issues.
financial instruments should therefore be structured in such a way as to ensure sustainable economic growth in developing countries.
the development cooperation instrument aims to assist poorer partner countries in the areas of trade and regional integration, environment and natural resource management, infrastructure, water and energy, rural development, agriculture and food security, human development and social cohesion.
the commission suggests that an indicator should be developed that clearly reflects the situation in a country, including the condition of households and individuals, the efficiency of the use of resources and the state of the environment.
- today, in the vote on the report by mr garriga polledo, 'investing in the future - a new multiannual financial framework (mff) for a competitive, sustainable and socially inclusive europe', i abstained on the amendments tabled by the s&d, greens/efa and gue/ngl groups concerning the proposal to the european commission to introduce a financial transaction tax.
similarly, i consider attempts to introduce a carbon tax as an alternative to the ftt to be extremely damaging.
the most important, in my opinion, in terms of relations with russia are energy policy and human rights.
i would like to draw the commission's attention to this paragraph of the resolution which calls on russia not to use the supply of energy resources as an instrument to influence the policies of its neighbours.
first, we make energy solidarity one of the main european principles in the lisbon treaty, and then we agree as the union to the nord stream project, which is geopolitically harmful to poland and other new member states.
on the energy issue, russia needs to hear our opposition to another blackmail against ukraine, as well as our opposition to the actions of the russian influence agency that is trying to disable shale gas extraction in poland and in europe.
energy solidarity is enshrined in the lisbon treaty, but russia does not accept it, as exemplified by the nord stream project.
the attempt to isolate some new countries in the european union by means of an energy wedge cannot be accepted, and this must be clearly stated at the summit.
i would just like to remind you that the modernization of russia is not only economic issues, not only energy issues, but also political modernization, the relationship between the government and the people.
the eu-russia summit will probably cover a wide range of issues, but one of the most important is probably energy security.
russia has been conducting an extremely intense campaign for several months to exclude its gas infrastructure from the rules of the third energy package, from the rules of our antitrust law, which prohibits simultaneous, parallel control of the raw material and the transmission network.
the european union is in talks with russia about the energy future, but a new group is now being set up, from what i understand, to discuss the third energy package in the context of gas security.
i was told by one of the representatives of the russian energy company that they, as a company, would be involved in these negotiations.
it is also very important to the european parliament that competition law in the energy sector is respected without any exceptions.
in view of the safety of all europeans, particular attention should be paid to the appropriate use of all available means to raise safety standards and eliminate potential risks from nuclear energy.
but all the more so to allay public fears everything must be done to guarantee the safety of nuclear energy in europe.
we must do everything we can to restore security and confidence in this energy source in europe.
however, other energy sources, such as unconventional shale gas, must also be considered.
for many years, nuclear power was considered the energy of the future: green, efficient, zero-emission.
today, our aim must be to improve the safety of nuclear power stations, to reassure the public and to change the negative image of nuclear energy in europe.
that is why i do not understand the voices of the left who are talking about another tax on nuclear energy and the final abandonment of this type of energy source.
madam president, i would like to say to the commissioner that today the european union is changing its internal policy regarding nuclear safety, but at the same time, we are beginning work on external energy policy.
the nuclear stress tests should not only help the commission revise the safety directive, but should also be included in the commission report on the external dimension of energy policy which will soon be published.
stress tests and energy safety should form a crucial part of our energy dialogue with third countries.
the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu-russia summit brings progress on visa-free travel and energy security.
the european parliament also calls on the russian federation to increase its commitment to action to combat climate change, mainly by reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
the question of energy resources and the costs that eu countries have to pay russia for them is also a very important one.
these are: food security in the european union and worldwide, globalisation, and a new, strong common agricultural policy that will, firstly, improve our competitiveness on the international market; secondly, provide farmers with a fair income; thirdly, provide consumers with good quality products at a fair price; fourthly, ensure sustainable rural development; and fifthly, contribute to the improvement of the environment.
when we produce and process food, we have to take care of the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in march and june 2010, the european council adopted the europe 2020 strategy, whose main priority is to strengthen the coordination of economic policy strategies in the member states with the long-term objective of sustainable and inclusive growth and sustainable employment.
there is no scientific basis to prove that humans are the major contributors to the increase in co2 emissions into the atmosphere.
these are centuries-long cycles that affect the climate.
there are experts on the subject, including professor jaworowsky, a prominent climate scientist from poland.
because it used to be a green island, but the climate has changed, regardless of man.
therefore, we must oppose this new, secular religion, a folly that will call into question any sense of accession to the european union of countries such as poland, which would have to spend much more money on reducing co2 emissions than it has so far received net from cohesion policy.
so if a 20 percent reduction in co2 emissions is pointless, then a 30 percent reduction is even more pointless.
and when we talk about global warming, we should look at it as a kind of rational design.
but i would like to point out that greenhouse gases have this thing about them, that they know no boundaries.
if even the european union adopts the most stringent greenhouse gas emission reductions, and china, india and other developing countries do not, the effect will be the same.
if it's true that a month of greenhouse gas emissions in china is equivalent to a year-long 20% reduction in europe, that's a telling piece of information.
the economies of some eu member states, including my own poland are already feeling the damaging effects of the arbitrarily imposed climate and energy package as a tool to achieve the 3x20 political objective.
but this policy goal is often distorted, too, because they talk about reducing energy consumption by 20 percent, and they talk about increasing efficiency by 20 percent, and that's not the same thing.
the frequent misuse of the term 'efficiency' in eu documents is due to a misunderstanding of the concept of 'energy efficiency' and how it is assessed, i.e.
primary energy into useful work.
and this is the biggest potential reduction in emissions - even greater than the 20% declared.
member states should be free to choose the way and timetable for reducing emissions, mainly through efficiency gains.
the climate and energy package needs to be revised to better align member states to reduce emissions.
climate change is a major challenge for the international community.
the results show that europe is pursuing an effective climate policy.
pushing for further reductions in emissions from 20% to 30% could do a lot of damage to climate change.
if the cost of production in europe is too high, global emissions will increase due to increased imports of products from low-carbon countries.
european industry has shown that it can be trusted to find innovative solutions to help combat climate change.
due to the very high level of carbonisation of the energy sector, polish industry will be forced to bear significantly higher costs from the ets than its european competitors from 2013. this could cause huge problems in achieving the original reduction target while maintaining liquidity.
investors who are already spending money to compete in third countries with less stringent environmental regulations than in europe are faced with the dilemma of staying in europe or relocating their companies.
unilaterally increasing targets is not an effective means of preventing climate change.
under pressure from climate policy, industry will move to countries with more sensible climate policies.
it's not going to reduce global emissions of climate-damaging gases.
the phenomenon of 'carbon leakage', or the movement of industry outside the eu, is not a myth but a real threat to economic growth and jobs in europe.
according to a world bank report, the implementation of the european climate and energy package will cost poland 1.4% of gdp per year by 2020 and the eu as a whole 0.55%.
the eu's previously set target of 20% co2 emission reduction is difficult for polish and central european industry to accept due to the high share of coal in energy.
poland cannot afford to raise the carbon dioxide emission reduction ceiling to 30%.
the level of funding in the new budget should therefore be considerably higher, simply to accelerate the development of europe, the development of the regions, the development of a sustainable european union.
goals that are focused on climate change, on innovation.
there is no doubt that cohesion policy contributes to improving the socioeconomic environment by stimulating the development of the regions receiving it in particular.
but we must also keep in mind the sustainability of rural and urban development.
the cohesion policy must allocate funds for rural development, because the second pillar of the common agricultural policy is shifting its activity to the so-called greening, ecologisation, environmental issues, agricultural development and processing.
the relatively low use of infrastructure and environment funds makes it necessary to review the tools to encourage projects in this area.
in addition, the development and convergence of trans-territorial and cross-border cooperation and the implementation of joint regional projects in the field of infrastructure and the environment, which are desirable for european development and convergence, require additional support.
taking these areas into account in the design of the cohesion strategy and policy after 2013 has the potential to contribute to the sustainable and harmonious economic development of the european union.
but one way to overcome the current economic crisis is to continue with these policies that are delivering sustainable growth.
the arrangements cover not only strictly pragmatic aspects but also a multiannual sectoral programme which envisages cooperation in the framework of responsible fishing, sustainable fisheries and joint scientific research.
this is why the focus is on transport infrastructure projects that facilitate the functioning of the common market and on the environment.
there is also a need to improve coherence within member states and to better use financial resources for climate change-related infrastructure investments, such as hydro-technical structures.
given the controversy surrounding nuclear energy today and the fact that the eu's institutional system has changed since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, i believe that the european parliament should be involved in the decision-making process in the field of nuclear energy.
i believe that this has been to the detriment of the transparency of the decision-making process on a matter as important to eu citizens as nuclear energy.
− mr president, the commission very much welcomes this own-initiative report on energy infrastructure priorities for 2020 and beyond.
energy networks are at the heart of our energy system.
without secure intelligence and sustainable energy networks we cannot meet our climate goals and our energy targets in europe.
within the next decades our energy system will therefore need to go through a deep transformation process that will bring huge challenges but also opportunities in the way we generate, transport, distribute and consume energy.
in almost any possible future scenario, energy infrastructures will play the key role as a catalyst enabling us to meet our emission reduction objectives.
the new eu energy infrastructure policy is needed to change the way in which networks are planned and developed in the european union.
this is why the european parliament’s own-initiative report on energy infrastructure is so timely and important.
we need to build grids connecting the huge offshore wind energy potential in the northern seas to consumption centres in northern and central europe.
we need to develop interconnections in south-western europe with a view to integrating renewable energies and increasing the flexibility of gas flows in the region.
we need to fully integrate the baltic electricity and gas market into the european market, thus ending the isolation of energy islands, and we need to strengthen the regional network in central-eastern and south-eastern europe.
we need now to move from priorities to concrete projects of european interest, from plans on drawing boards to consultation, permit granting, financing and construction on the ground, and that is why our forthcoming legislative proposal on energy infrastructure will be so important.
last week, as you know, the commission adopted our proposal for the next multiannual framework; it provides for eur 9.1 billion to be dedicated to energy infrastructures for the period 2014-2020 as part of a common infrastructure fund.
this acknowledges the need for specific eu funding for energy infrastructures in order to deliver on our common energy and climate targets but also to ensure continued and secure supply of competitive energy to all european citizens.
the commission also appreciates the recommendations, including in the report discussed today, regarding the prioritisation of energy infrastructure projects, the acceleration of permit-granting procedures and better involvement of interested stakeholders as well as the regulation of cross-border infrastructure and financing.
we will take all this into due consideration in the process of developing the forthcoming legislative proposal for a regulation on energy infrastructure development, which is scheduled for the autumn of this year.
ladies and gentlemen, infrastructure priorities should be used to create optimal energy networks in the eu's single market.
these are: ecology and climate protection, transmission efficiency and savings, competition and solidarity, security of supply, financing, cooperation between agencies and a 10-year planning period.
firstly, in paragraph 5, the rapporteur warns against 'developing infrastructure between the eu and third countries' because this could encourage the risk of co2 emissions leakage.
european networks must be ready to receive energy from outside or to export it.
secondly, european infrastructure must take account of the existence of time zones as well as climate zones.
thirdly, the flow of wind energy from the north to the south requires special new networks, not only over the north sea but also over the baltic.
the external dimension of the eu's energy policy is one of the priorities of the polish presidency.
integrated and secure energy networks are a key requirement not only for the union's energy policy objectives but also for its economic strategy.
the provisions stipulate that the internal energy market, which will ensure the free flow of gas and electricity between eu countries and the connection of energy islands to the infrastructure, should be completed by 2015. with the need for imported raw materials growing, the eu is building a common energy policy to avoid crises like last year in the future.
new transmission routes and interconnectors between countries, as well as the search for alternative raw materials, sources and supply routes, are to be the basis of energy security and solidarity among its members.
poland is an important part of this system, but the country's energy infrastructure is in a state of slow degradation.
ensuring energy security in the european union is one of the greatest challenges facing the community.
to change this, the union needs significant investment in energy infrastructure.
the implementation of these projects will make it possible to become independent of russian blockades and energy blackmail.
the construction of these routes will also be an expression of the european solidarity in the field of energy, so necessary in the last difficult period for the community.
another extremely important element in the construction of europe's energy independence is the creation of the so-called polish part of the odessa/brody pipeline.
this investment is also in line with the eastern partnership's vision of joint energy initiatives.
energy security is a recent buzzword, and one that is being repeated across the eu institutions.
it is not just about access to energy resources, but also about efficient transmission and distribution infrastructure.
the lisbon treaty has recently highlighted the need to build energy solidarity in europe in this area.
in particular, energy connections between eu member states should be increased and alternative, strategic routes built.
the interconnectors are an important part of the energy puzzle.
they protect them against attempted energy blockades by exporting countries and enable the price of energy produced to be stabilised.
investing in energy security also means investing in the development of new technologies.
they reduce environmental impact and make better use of conventional energy sources such as coal.
therefore, in the face of a restrictive climate policy, the union should actively support ccs projects, especially in countries where coal is a significant contributor to energy production.
the basis for this discussion and our report is the green paper on inclusive growth and sustainable development presented by the european commission last year.
we support the european union's proposal to focus more on certain areas, such as renewable energy and agriculture.
two other thematic areas of particular importance are sustainable development and climate change.
it is clear that we agree on the vital role that doing more to support inclusive and sustainable growth could play in this endeavour.
for instance, parliament supports the suggestions in the green paper of focusing eu development on energy and food security.
when i attended the european council for the first time as prime minister some 13 years ago, i remember very well that those meetings were all optimistic, they were ambitious, they were usually full of energy and momentum.
a sincere word of thanks goes to the hungarian presidency, who really put a lot of energy and negotiating effort into bringing this package so close to fruition.
they should have the right to prohibit the cultivation of gmos in cases justified by environmental and agricultural considerations.
the systematic reduction of carbon dioxide emissions is having a negative impact on the economies of countries like poland, which rely on the burning of hard coal.
the ongoing decarbonisation of energy, which reflects the drive to eliminate co2 emissions altogether, could cause a significant economic recession in both developing and developed countries.
the increase in energy prices resulting from the necessary changes in energy supply and related investments can have a significant impact on the economic downturn of industrial regions.
the introduction of high greenhouse gas emission ceilings will require a significant number of companies to be co-financed by the union.
i therefore remain sceptical about the possibility of increasing the 20% target for reducing emissions.
greenhouse gases know no boundaries.
this seemingly obvious fact seems to be overlooked by advocates of radical reductions in co2 and other greenhouse gases.
well, the european union, within its own borders, is working to radically reduce its greenhouse gas emissions, but it's turning a blind eye to the fact that other countries, like china, india, the countries of the former soviet union, are not going to do it at all.
they're increasing production and increasing emissions in parallel.
but carbon-intensive production is still going on in china, in india, in south american countries.
so there's still as much carbon dioxide in the atmosphere as there was, if not more.
it is a good thing that today parliament rejected the demand to increase co2 emissions by 30%.
there is no scientific evidence that humans are the dominant cause of global warming.
nature itself is regulating climate change.
for countries like poland, where 94% of energy production is based on coal, adopting this package would be suicide.
it could mean that poland would have to contribute to the reduction of co2 emissions more than the overall net amount it would receive from the european union under the structural funds.
this is a very important project, the implementation of which would give us a chance to become independent of russian sources, and would give us much greater certainty about europe's energy security.
unfortunately, if we do not go from words to deeds, if the european union does not commit itself to the creation of this project, it may never come to fruition and the european union's energy security may suffer greatly, also in economic terms, because gas, if it comes from a monopolist, will be a more expensive gas, so creating competition is also justified from a market point of view.
it would be possible for my country to implement it, and even with a surcharge, if the tools for its implementation imposed by the climate and energy package were changed.
it is the member states that have agreed to the binding 3 × 20 targets that should be able to meet this commitment themselves, just as they have the theoretical ability to shape their energy mix.
secondly, i would like to remind you that the anthropomorphic co2 effect on climate has not been proven.
i am also opposed to the so-called environmental lobby in the ep, which the commission and especially its prominent and politically ambitious representatives are so eager to listen to.
therefore, before we make decisions to drastically reduce co2 emissions, we must have reliable evidence of its harmfulness based on the opinions of independent experts (e.g.
i voted against because the effects of climate change, probably from natural causes that must be fought, are being ignored, and the financial effort is to be devoted to the donisoteria of fighting causes beyond our control.
european countries account for about 10% of all global emissions.
without action by other international partners, and in particular the world's largest economies, there will be no realistic path to achieving the greenhouse gas emissions target.
the current target is to reduce co2 emissions by 20%, and this is a considerable effort for some eu countries whose coal-based economies cannot be converted to other energy sources in the short term.
further steps to reduce emissions would be costly for the eu as a whole and would make eu operators less competitive with the us, china or india.
− the report's ambitious eu climate policy and the target of 30% reduction in carbon emissions by 2020 failed to win a majority today.
the eu targets only include a 20% commitment to reduce emissions.
under pressure from climate policy, industry will move to countries with more sensible climate policies.
globally, this will not reduce climate-damaging emissions.
the eu targets only include a 20% commitment to reduce emissions, and the optimism of the hurra report did not take into account the huge costs that would be borne by member states and companies operating in their territories.
in view of this real threat, the community must devote itself to the rapid development of renewable energy sources and storage capacity.
the community must also unite on matters of foreign and security policy, the internal market, scientific research, energy supply and the security of raw materials.
in voting in favour of this much-needed project, i am not losing hope that this multi-stage process of designing europe's energy infrastructure will take place at both eu and intergovernmental level and lead to the desired solutions.
− mr president, energy safety and solidarity are our main european goals.
the fulfilment of these goals can only be achieved through europe-wide energy grids.
we also need new infrastructure to complete the single energy market – especially as we start the move towards green energy.
this means the greater decentralisation of energy sources and thus better networks.
the commission is planning major renewable-energy projects in the north sea and north africa.
however, it would be futile to build energy projects if the networks that they will connect to are too old to cope with the new energy.
− i have decided to support the report on the priorities for energy infrastructure for 2020 and beyond, which is a step towards an agreement on an integrated european energy network.
it is important that the heads of state or government ratify the common energy policy (the 'one voice'), which should become part of the common foreign policy.
on the other hand, the report sets out very interesting and promising objectives such as: sustainability and the promotion of renewable energy sources, competitiveness and the opening up of markets, security of supply and diversification of sources, or the famous "three twenties": a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, a 20% increase in energy efficiency and a 20% increase in the use of renewable energy.
nor can we forget about infrastructure, which the commission considers to be 'obsolete' and requires reforms that are crucial to achieving one of the union's major objectives in this area, namely the reduction of carbon emissions.
the growth of wind turbine electricity generation is a favourable environment to continue the theme of energy infrastructure reform.
the universal services referred to here, such as education, healthcare, transport, energy and telecommunications, guarantee a healthy, well-educated, and therefore politically and professionally active, cohesive european union society and translate into a higher proportion of well-educated workers in the market, which in turn leads to the growth of a competitive social market economy, thus to the fight against the crisis and subsequent economic development.
we are talking about a europe that is secure in terms of energy, food and raw materials.
there is a third thing we want to focus a lot of energy on: open europe.
despite the modest tools at the presidency's disposal, despite the time of crisis we are feeling so acutely, i am convinced that we will contribute a lot of polish enthusiasm, polish energy, polish optimism, which has allowed us to get through the crisis quite safely, because we really believe in europe and we want to work with you (applause), by doing these practical tasks, to bring about a reopening of the investment chapter in europe, so that we all believe in europe again.
the plan to execute this vision is detailed in the europe 2020 strategy for sustainable, inclusive and smart growth.
this means strengthening the backbone of our internal market by funding better connections for energy, transport and it between member states.
security means improving our environment and climate.
it means guaranteeing our energy supply.
solidarity is an integral part of the entire financial perspective proposal: solidarity with our poorer regions, solidarity also with neighbouring countries that need our support, but above all solidarity with our children and grandchildren, to do our best to ensure they inherit a sustainable and strong europe, a europe we can be proud of.
on behalf of the ecr group, i would like to say that we are very keen to see the polish presidency succeed, because we believe that it can bring fresh energy to the somewhat stifling atmosphere of the european institutions.
the common agricultural policy is good for the environment, it produces public goods for which farmers are not paid.
the french presidency has been hammering away at the climate package, but it turns out that france will make the most money selling alternative energy technologies when the package comes into force.
why don't you initiate a withdrawal from the climate package that will ruin the polish economy and cause electricity prices to rise by 100% in a short time?
i wanted to share that energy and belief in the meaning of our actions here.
i was in kiev a few months ago and i think i was very clear about my intention as prime minister of the incoming government to use the best possible climate for ukraine and the european union to conclude an association agreement.
i know that for a substantial part of this house, environmental issues, and climate in particular, are a priority and a constant.
my or polish point of view is perhaps not enthusiastic enough to gain full acceptance from the pro-climate or pro-environmental avant-garde.
the vast majority of meps support solidarity, the single market, free movement of people, openness, and europe's military, food and energy security.
in this unfavourable climate, the polish government has made it a priority to organise a 'escape' by taking steps to improve the competitiveness of the eu economy and avert the crisis.
the commission is proposing to revise current legislation on data protection and adjust it to the fast-moving technological and globalised environment created by the use of the internet.
under the new rules, the energy content, fat, saturated fat, carbohydrate, sugar, protein and salt must be clearly indicated on the packaging.
we fully understand that in a time when obesity and cardiovascular disease caused by poor diet are killing large numbers of europeans, the inclusion of information on energy and nutritional value on packaging makes it easier for the average person to compose a balanced diet on his or her own.
the requirement to submit annual reports assessing the social and environmental responsibility of businesses seems to be unrealised.
any action to counter the effects of the crisis to rebalance the market, reduce unemployment and ensure sustainable development is absolutely worth supporting.
it is also important to develop new training proposals, including in science, mathematics and technology, to increase the employment opportunities of women in technical and scientific positions, in non-traditional occupations, in low-carbon sectors of the economy and in high-tech sectors.
failure to make substantial progress in the defence, police and justice sectors will jeopardise the sustainability of achievements made in the economic, social and political areas.
the extraction of primary raw materials requires energy: in other words, the energy equivalent of the raw materials can be determined as one of the measures of the efficiency of their use.
the union's strategic partnership policy with the russian federation is becoming an important element in improving the balance of not only energy resources.
the development trend of the union materials engineering is a wider substitution of energy-intensive raw materials and materials by those that meet the criteria of use with lower energy consumption.
an ambitious energy and climate policy cannot be achieved without access to raw materials for materials with special physical and chemical properties, such as rare earths for super magnets or copper, which is a good conductor of heat and electricity.
we are talking about an effective strategy that will set new directions for both consumption and the sustainable use of our raw materials.
the high consumption of raw materials also blocks european economies as competitive, as low-carbon and as modern.
that's why it's so important to deal with waste, which in large quantities contains very valuable raw materials.
integrated action is also needed in the fields of development of modern technologies, energy, industry and environmental protection.
policies and strategies must be geared to reducing emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere in the near future.
it turns out that the great ecological risks on the shelves are rising disproportionately as the difficulty of extracting hydrocarbons from wells in the deeper seas increases.
the technical possibilities of 'cutting off' in the event of a sudden pressure jump in the well and full environmental and weather monitoring of the platform operation must be presented at each time.
and it came at a price, and a painful price, in the form of unemployment, a worsening political climate, and a wave of populism.
in the face of the global challenges of our time, whether in security, climate change or the global financial crisis, only a more integrated union has a chance to influence others effectively and to take part in the decision-making process.
the european union faces a major challenge in developing a sound policy for its immediate environment.
the future of europe's industrial economy depends on wide access to raw materials, both energy and other.
given the large number of active european installations, mainly in the north sea basin, where hazardous incidents have also occurred, it is necessary to establish a coherent legal framework and rules to ensure that only safe and sustainable operations are carried out.
the development of a high level of safety in the mining industry aimed at protecting people and the environment will enhance public confidence and contribute to the union's position in strengthening global regulations.
increased competitiveness and an increase in the quality of exported agricultural products will contribute to the stable and sustainable development of rural areas.
low birth rate on one side, and growing healthy long-lived pensioners on the other, may create a problem for us with a view to ensuring sustainable pensions in the future.
it also mentions other obstacles facing women wishing to enter a masculine-dominated business environment.
as commissioner oettinger said, it has an impact on energy prices, which is of utmost importance to consumers.
it is also important because it has an impact on energy security.
most importantly, this regulation brings us closer to achieving this house’s great ambition of creating the single market in energy.
i think the best thing the european union can do for europe's energy is to have real competition in the common market.
genuine liberalisation can also improve energy security where it is threatened by the over-dominance and sometimes monopoly of suppliers.
finally, we propose to extend the controls to derivative contracts in the market for co2 emissions trading, which is certain to grow very rapidly in the coming years.
these are also the reasons why the conservative and reform group will support the report proposed by ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, this report is a victory for those who want to strengthen the internal market and transparency standards in the energy field.
in that sense, it is a further step towards the europeanisation of energy policy, and i welcome that very much.
now, as these backroom deals will be more open, energy prices will truly reflect the reality of supply and demand.
the commission should also work towards greater transparency of the ownership of energy firms.
the eu regulation on energy market integrity and transparency will apply to all energy trading companies in the european union.
we seem to have reached a compromise which does not work against the development of competition in the european energy market and thus does not undermine the full liberalisation of the market proposed by the european commission.
the european infrastructure and market instruments created by the third liberalisation package supported by the european commission's initiatives for trade integrity and transparency in the wholesale energy market should ensure the liberalisation of national electricity markets and the harmonisation of regulatory frameworks.
however, it seems that this is the last moment to stop just discussing the need to improve the legal environment for smes and micro-enterprises, and to put these rules into practice.
what matters now is putting all our energy and resources into carrying out the tasks identified at eu level so we get results quickly, rather than introducing new procedures or steering structures in the form of high-level groups or committees.
last month, i met key stakeholders to talk about how to step up our work on homelessness and what framework would help ensure that enough attention and energy are put into doing what is needed.
i think that most people here will be aware of it, but although it does sound as if we are always only addressing co2 emissions this is actually not true.
this is because everything in the international negotiations is measured in co2 equivalents, but that of course means that other kinds of emissions are being translated, so to speak, into the currency of co2.
sometimes therefore this might give the wrong picture as if we are only talking about or only addressing co2 emissions.
i recall that very well because that environment council meeting was my first council meeting as danish minister, and we had this big fight about how ambitious the f-gas regulation should be.
one key initiative to try to address many of these things will be the review that i mentioned for the thematic strategy on air pollution: the review will be ready for 2013. that is a major initiative and i think we will have a chance there to address many of these things.
i can tell you that back in march at the environment council the danish minister proposed that the member states commit voluntarily not to use hfc-23, and by the next council meeting in june this alliance had grown quite substantially.
in this uncertain environment, the central bank's first obligation must be to safeguard transmission mechanisms and to safeguard stability.
this has resulted in an accumulation of debts and deficits that are simply not sustainable and have been further aggravated by the financial crisis.
to tackle the crisis, we must correct the excessive deficits and debts in a determined and sustainable way.
in the european union we have some instruments, from the agenda 2020 to the single market act, to promote sustainable growth.
we are a valued partner in global fora and debates and we have a significant influence on global issues such as trade and climate change because in those matters we are able to act together, united.
stability of public finances is not enough in the long term, we need sustainable economic growth.
i have decided to support this report because it has a significant impact on the level of energy prices and in particular on the budget of individual consumers.
however, it should be noted that the best way to price is healthy competition, and above all competition on the market for suppliers of raw materials for energy production.
the lack of diversification of the supply of raw materials, and in particular of gas, narrows and limits the control of energy producers and their ability to influence prices.
unfair practices in energy markets have a significant impact on high price levels and, consequently, on the material situation of final customers, i.e.
the provisions of the regulation should, in my view, make it possible to eliminate abuse and manipulation in wholesale energy products.
under the direction of the recently established agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, transactions in the marketing of energy products are becoming more transparent.
i hope that the new rules will improve the stability of wholesale energy markets, which is why i support this motion for a resolution.
under the kyoto protocol, individual countries have committed to reducing non-co2 greenhouse gas emissions, and this process is being implemented.
− the main objective of this regulation is to organise the european energy market in such a way that its integrity and transparency will exclude the monopolistic or oligopolistic tendencies of large energy corporations.
they lead to a disincentive to innovative energy-efficient solutions, which may have a negative impact on the situation of the final customer.
the possibility of speculative declaration of the need to purchase energy should be limited where it cannot be immediately taken over and transferred and where there is no financial possibility to carry out this transaction.
the transparency of the energy market also requires full information on actual prices, which is a sine qua non for fair play.
the regulation does not include new forms of energy trading, such as capacity payment, which would prevent speculation.
the costs of transporting the energy are not taken into account in the pricing of the energy (nodal pricing), which makes the total costs inappropriate.
- we all know how important energy security is nowadays, how important constant, preferably independent and reliable access to energy is.
we need to ensure that the energy sector and the markets associated with it are characterised by the transparency and integrity that this report seeks to achieve.
− on 14 september 2011, a vote was held on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on energy market integrity and transparency, which i supported.
in my view, a sectoral approach to the energy market is needed, which requires different regulatory cells, while maintaining principles consistent with financial market regulations.
i believe that wholesale energy markets should be made more transparent by introducing a register of market participants.
unfair practices affect the level of energy prices.
market participants should report data on their (wholesale) transactions to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators.
− the new eu regulation on energy market transparency and cohesion, which includes monitoring wholesale trade, protecting wholesale end-users and imposing financial penalties on infringers, is an important step towards the establishment of an eu energy market.
this is part of the requirement to ensure energy security not only for poland but also for all member states.
this is important because regular energy supplies, carried out in a transparent and corruption-free manner on the european market, are of vital importance to our economy, which would not be able to function properly without adequate energy supplies.
the added value of this document is the potential benefit for ordinary consumers, the new rules of the game in the energy market mean more competition between energy suppliers, which in turn should translate into lower purchase prices.
- clear rules of the game in the energy market mean more competition and lower prices, and that is good news for consumers.
removing barriers, removing regulatory disparities, in short, deepening the eu's single market, including energy, is the answer to today's crisis.
we did that today in this house, voting for the energy market regulation.
the aim of these regulations was to increase transparency and accountability, which are key to fighting corruption in the energy market.
it's the only way we're going to be able to help this region in a sustainable way.
the next item is the report by mrs marisa matias, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the green paper 'turning challenges into opportunities: a common strategic framework for eu funding for research and innovation' (2011/2107 (ini)) (a7-0302/2011)
thank you very much.
it is a europe that is not well known, but it is very important, and i think it is worth thinking about this kind of ecological, natural tourism.
we have to realize that with this climate change, there will be temporary weather anomalies, there will be situations where it may turn out that a country will be repeatedly flooded.
my group will vote against this report, mainly because it contains some ideological language about the continuing attempt to build a common european identity, and that is precisely why the committee on the environment will vote against it.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
the opinion also stresses the strategic importance of access to the world's natural and energy resources for europe's security.
trade policy must meet certain criteria - in particular, that imported goods comply with european requirements in terms of safety standards, social issues, but also production conditions and environmental impact, as this is the basis for maintaining competitiveness.
this is particularly important given the fact that the european producer is facing huge costs related to environmental compliance, working conditions and wage levels.
the european union is seen as a land of prosperity, a place where people live in abundance and where eu funds ensure sustainable economic, social and scientific development.
this is how we will ensure that europe has a sustainable and balanced growth.
i also support the commission's initiative to promote women's entrepreneurship and create an environment conducive to the development of women-led businesses, the so-called european network of women's entrepreneurship ambassadors.
a coherent strategy, including action plans, an integrated monitoring system using satellite information, improved information flows and coordinated cooperation between member states, will certainly help to reduce environmental, social and economic damage in the event of disasters.
it is also a sector of key importance for the integration and sustainable development of the regions concerned.
agricultural, environmental, poverty reduction in the european union and beyond, energy and raw material security are some of the areas that should be taken into account in the conduct of trade policy.
the above actions would contribute significantly to the achievement of the union's agenda for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
it should be noted that this cannot be at the expense of promoting sustainable growth, which is the basis for increasing employment levels and productivity and social cohesion.
in this respect, the european commission has made a clear choice, since, for the period after 2013, it has already proposed, in its proposals for the new multiannual financial framework, to include these programmes in the economic and social cohesion policy, with a budget of eur 2.5 billion for the period 2014-2020. this is precisely to ensure the sustainability of these programmes.
i would like to say to mr eickhout that i invite him to poland because i have lived there for several decades and have not seen the rivers dry up, and as far as co2 emissions are concerned, poland has reduced them by about 30% in accordance with the kyoto protocol, which no other western european country has done.
rio+20 is a great challenge and an opportunity to develop transnational solutions that ensure economic development while meeting the needs of society and the environment.
the three rio conventions, which are well known and widely discussed in the eu, on biodiversity, climate change and desertification, are the answer to related problems.
the summit should result in concrete actions to boost the development of a green economy, including, for example, plans for environmental costs in economic decision-making, the creation of effective mechanisms and programmes adapted to global challenges that meet the needs of developed and developing countries alike.
i am thinking here of the recent attempts to eliminate nuclear energy or shale gas, now enigmatically called unconventional fuel.
the energy mix, as mrs auconie said, belongs to the member states.
only consensus and a wise compromise will link the rio+20 goals with the need for sustainable access to different energy sources.
we agree, of course, that development should be as sustainable as possible.
what does a financial transaction tax have to do with sustainable economic growth?
i would remind you that this morning president barroso had already spent the money collected from this tax, but he spent it on measures to combat the financial crisis, so it will be very difficult to spend this money again, this time on climate policy.
the ban on unconventional oil production, which affects a small part of canada and the united states, has nothing to do with sustainable development.
similarly, the slowing down or global phase-out of nuclear power has nothing to do with sustainability.
who's going to pay for the new grids, the new energy-supply facilities, the new facilities themselves?
we all share a very strong belief that we need to work together to fight climate change, and we need to work together to develop a sustainable development agenda for the next 10 years and a better, more effective poverty reduction agenda than we have seen before.
in europe, we have our 2020 targets, we have the ets and we have sustainable standards, but in the united states, india and china, these measures are not being implemented.
it's very difficult to tell them that energy prices will go up and jobs will go abroad.
and in india, we have heard very often that with the climate agreement, europe simply wants to choke the emerging economic powers, wants to weaken their competitiveness.
due to the european union's climate policy and for this reason alone the energy-intensive industry is under enormous competitive pressure from outside europe, from countries where co2 emissions are simply not regulated.
in many countries of the european union, these industries pay disproportionately for electricity simply because the energy sector is dominated by high-carbon technologies - this is the case in poland.
if we want to remain competitive, we must provide energy-intensive industries with tax breaks, public aid, and the suspension of transmission tariffs so that they can make the transition to a low-carbon economy in a smooth way.
− nuclear energy is the most stable and efficient source of energy.
this is because the demand for energy is growing rapidly, and the discovery of new gas, oil, or coal deposits is not keeping up with the demand.
in view of this, these countries are seeking to diversify their energy sources through the development of nuclear energy.
i support the green group's call for the development of green energy, which, despite its benefits, is unable to become an alternative to nuclear power because of its high cost and low efficiency.
- the vote on the ep resolution on the eu's common position on the un rio+20 sustainable development conference is an important vote ahead of the upcoming conference.
the union should focus on pursuing a global agreement on renewable energy and taking responsible steps towards sustainable energy development.
only a smart compromise will link the rio+20 goals with the need for sustainable energy access.
we need to look for solutions that promote economic growth while meeting the needs of society and the environment.
- i could not support this resolution because it contains demands that have nothing to do with balancing global development - introducing a tax on financial transactions and withdrawing from nuclear energy and the use of fossil fuels in energy.
in this difficult context it is essential to intensify efforts to secure sustainable and job-creating growth, to ensure the sustainability of public finances and restore confidence.
the third item will be climate change and i am pleased to say that the environment council agreed conclusions on monday that will put the european union once again in the lead ahead of the climate conference in durban in december.
the european council will set specific timelines for the implementation of some of those key priorities, namely the 12 priority proposals foreseen in the single market act on which agreement should be reached by the end of 2012. among those priorities, utmost priority will be given to those which can bring the most benefits for growth and jobs, notably, finalisation of the unitary patent protection system in europe, modernisation of the professional qualifications directive, promotion of sme access to finance, modernisation and simplification of the legislative framework for eu public procurement, promotion of green development in particular through energy efficiency, and the rapid adoption of the standardisation regulation.
briefly on the g20: the european union considers that the g20 should send a strong message of confidence at the cannes summit through an ambitious action plan with concrete commitments and measures from all g20 countries to respond to the challenges emanating from the current slowdown and to ensure strong, sustainable and balanced growth, while implementing credible fiscal consolidation.
briefly the eu position is based on the following eu priorities: restoring growth and tackling global macroeconomic imbalances, making tangible progress on implementing the financial market reform agenda, making the international monetary system more resilient, boosting trade as the most effective way to support global growth, enhancing the social dimension of globalisation, ensuring food security and promoting the g20 development agenda and innovative financing, the need for the g20 to further tackle the global climate and energy challenges and continue the fight against corruption.
finally on climate change, i just want to say that the european union will work towards an ambitious and balanced outcome at the durban conference, building up on what was agreed last year in cancún.
to break the vicious cycle of uncertainty over sovereign debt sustainability and over growth prospects, we need comprehensive solutions now.
second, deciding a sustainable solution for greece within the euro area.
i am talking about the energy savings directive.
they must be immediately and definitively removed, and that will require a decision on a sustainable solution for greece within the euro area, with an effective second assessment programme based on adequate financing through private-sector involvement alongside the public sector, and with robust implementation and monitoring mechanisms.
as i see it, we now have to finalise this kind of sustainable solution.
to increase its potential vis-à-vis its global partners, the union must promote a european model of economic growth based on competitiveness, social responsibility and environmental balance.
in this context, it is necessary to support climate change mitigation in the poorest regions, and to continue to work towards poverty eradication, in particular through the import of agricultural products.
it will promote sustainable employment, innovation and the development of research projects.
manufacturers need more time to develop new technologies that will allow the use of systems that reduce emissions without compromising the safety and efficiency of these tractors.
it is therefore worth promoting the abolition of all restrictions and tolerance towards disabled people in the pursuit of a sustainable european society.
it is necessary to provide women who follow their husbands or partners to another member state with appropriate services, such as courses to facilitate integration into a new social and cultural environment (language, occupational).
we have a climate policy, but it's a burden on businesses, and it will be a burden if we tighten the criteria even further.
the worst part is that we may lose industry and not achieve our climate goals, because outside europe, these companies are free to expand their production, poisoning the atmosphere, contributing to global warming, and we are losing jobs here in europe.
moreover, in the future, when the crisis is over, we will have to import this steel and pay extra for transportation and pollute the environment with this transportation.
so i think we need to think very hard about how we can achieve the goals of industrial production while protecting the environment.
the commission must step up its efforts to reach a global climate agreement, because this will not facilitate business relocation because of the much lower costs than in europe.
(the speaker agreed to answer the question asked under the blue card rule under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
i understand that you don't really want an answer to that question, because nobody wants europe to fail to meet its climate goals.
in creating new jobs, both in existing sectors such as health and social services and in emerging sectors such as green and sustainable jobs, we should ensure that new jobs do not become the source of old and widespread gender discrimination.
in addition, measures to promote entrepreneurship and to create a favourable environment for smes and investors are necessary.
in response to mr rivellini’s question, this is mainly to leverage private investment in the area of trans-european networks in energy, transport and research and development already tested.
i estimate that it must be up to eur 200 billion, with even more in energy.
it is also important to create new training opportunities, including in science, mathematics and technology, to increase the employment opportunities of women in technical and scientific positions, in non-traditional occupations, in low-carbon sectors of the economy and in high-tech sectors.
in the european council discussion on growth i had the occasion to put forward some proposals, such as project bonds, the connecting europe facility and the possibility of anticipating some of the proposals for the next multiannual financial framework, so that we can also show our citizens that we are serious when we speak about the possibilities of growth and are ready to make some kind of public investment, being committed to sustainable, inclusive growth and also to employment.
they worked in five working groups: dialogue and social engagement; migration and integration; equal opportunities; environment, transport and renewable energy; and education and employment.
they're raising many of the same issues that we raise every day: civil society, social dialogue, genuine equality in access to education, broad environmental protection, building a balance in north africa, in the middle east, with the gradual building of a society of affluence, which is so difficult in some countries in the region.
at the same time, we cannot afford to waste the huge potential of this sector, which unfortunately is not being exploited properly.
the issue of recognition of professional qualifications is only one element of the long-term and comprehensive strategy for mobility that europe needs to ensure sustainable growth.
i would also like to draw attention to the problem of food waste.
in the european union, we throw away millions of tonnes of food, billions of euros go to waste.
i would like to join these programs that are designed to educate european union citizens to reduce food waste and waste.
the processes that are taking place today can have irreversible effects on the ecosystem, and one of the priorities of future agricultural policy is to actively promote biodiversity.
especially now, in times of economic crisis, citizens should function in a friendly legal environment that facilitates mobility.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it is important that we emphasise the importance of consumer education, promote sustainable consumption and protect children from false advertising.
recently, there has been an increase in bee mortality worldwide, which threatens the stability of the environment and food production.
we are seeing an increase in bee mortality, which is threatening food production and environmental stability.
we need sustainable agriculture that produces the right quantity and quality of food.
equality is one of the prerequisites for sustainable development, employment, competitiveness and social cohesion.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council and the commission on the durban conference on climate change, by jo leinen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000216/2011 - b7-0639/2011), (o-000217/2011 - b7-0640/2011).
and that's why the most important issue right now, the most important priority is that we define the future of the expiring kyoto protocol in the climate negotiations, that we define conditions that can be implemented by other countries.
the european union is the only international entity that wants to be a leader in the fight against climate change in times of crisis.
we're imposing on ourselves new limits on greenhouse gas emissions, and we're stifling our own industry.
the resolution presented at the upcoming climate summit in durban is similar.
i therefore oppose proposals to increase co2 reductions and ideas to impose green taxes on energy-intensive industries in the member states.
it should be noted that in the last year, canada has dramatically increased its emissions by 25%, rapidly expanding china by 10%, india by over 8%, and the us by about 4%.
even our closest neighbor to the east, ukraine, is planning to increase its use of coal for power generation from 22% to 33% by 2030, which will automatically increase co2 emissions.
enough of the concessions on reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
this is all the more so since the commission has not been able to present an analysis of the impact of the changes on the european heavy industry and energy sector for some time.
the green energy development presented here seems to be a poor substitute.
well, if we assume that the scale of these irregularities in the area where the problems are growing, i am thinking here of the area of energy and transport cohesion, is 7.7%, then, when we convert this into amounts, we have the following situation: 41 billion euros have been spent on this, which means that the scale is 3 billion euros.
i really believe that they will stand by their words despite the complicated economic climate in the eu.
i agree with the council and the commission that one of the keys to sustainable development is to mobilise internal resources in the partner countries.
the eu is responsible for only 11% of the world's co2 emissions.
over the last dozen years, we've been reducing our greenhouse gas emissions every year while expanding our renewable energy sector.
in poland alone, a 20% reduction in emissions means a loss of about 5% of jobs in heavy industry and energy caused by the relocation or closure of plants.
we didn't look to other international actors when we decided on the next limits, whereas in recent years the us, china, india and brazil have not only not reduced their emissions, but they've actually increased them.
now it's finally time to realize that even if europe, hypothetically, stopped emitting greenhouse gases, it still wouldn't make a difference to the world's climate.
today, the warming process can only stop a 50% decline in emissions in china and india.
close cooperation with the united states is a prerequisite for effectively addressing today's challenges, such as combating the economic crisis, ensuring stability, energy security and combating terrorism.
in the absence of good and friendly law, another industry will be lost to the far eastern countries that have created a favorable environment for the development of the maritime industry.
illegal fishing is the darkest element of unfair competition, which is degrading the environment and destroying european fisheries.
today, despite the tragic consequences of the japanese disaster, it is important to continue research involving developments in the field of nuclear energy, especially in the field of nuclear fission safety.
in the field of resource efficiency, as well as the applications of nuclear technology in other industries and medicine, euratom-funded research projects play a key role also in relation to the europe 2020 and energy 2020 objectives.
investments in research would be used to make better use of and modernise existing economic sectors such as tourism, trade, transport, manufacturing and port services, with the least possible damage to biodiversity.
in the light of the dwindling resources of the seas and oceans, this is a very worrying figure, posing a threat not only to the economy but also to the environment and global food security.
as the european union, we are trying to counter these effects by rebuilding depleted stocks and ensuring sustainable control of our fisheries through fisheries law enforcement, transnational cooperation, effective controls, transparency and access to information.
abuses committed by the iranian authorities are harming more and more individuals and organisations and worsening the climate of fear and suspicion.
further sustainable results and improved track records are expected.
adoption of the acquis enables us to better meet our strategic policy objectives in fields such as energy, transport, the environment and other strategic interests.
despite the economic downturn, the european union is open to new potential partners, demonstrating the community's real strength - its well-established ideas of sustainable development and enlargement.
the european parliament is an institution elected by society and therefore has a special right to decide on the allocation of funds for the construction and development of freedom, democracy and human rights, the building of civil society and the fulfilment of social and environmental requirements.
the key issue to be addressed here seems to be energy cooperation.
it is necessary for the mutual diversification of energy sources and the security of transit of energy resources from russia.
secondly, we have heard that an agreement has been reached at the climate conference in durban.
i welcome the statement made yesterday by prime minister cameron that he intends to continue to pursue a positive policy of engagement in the european union on a whole range of issues, including growth and economic reform, smart regulation, fighting climate change and the development agenda.
so what we need now in the euro area, and in the european union, is a commitment to sustainability, to persistence, to rigour, to discipline and to convergence over time.
we need of course to be rigorous in terms of having a debt sustainability path, but we also need measures for growth.
i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur and the polish presidency for their hard work and to congratulate them on reaching a compromise which is a clear step towards building a legal environment favourable to the activities of the smallest economic operators in the eu internal market.
we need to be able to respond to the complex threats of today – crises from cyber-threats, energy security and others – and we need to assume our global responsibilities whilst showing real value for money.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
the adoption of a euro-mediterranean energy efficiency strategy, the promotion of euro-mediterranean interconnections in electricity, gas and oil, the development of a low-carbon economy, efficient waste management and nuclear safety are further elements of the intensification of the dialogue to enhance the security of energy supply.
if we want to ensure food safety in the eu and help protect the environment by reducing co2 emissions from transport, we should strongly support the european fruit juice market.
whether it was the work on the six-pack, the accession of croatia, the eastern partnership, energy security or other legislative acts such as the common european patent, we have succeeded in bringing our commitments to the final stage, in completing our work.
a europe that can learn from its own mistakes and can also address its weaknesses, building its recovery on sound and sustainable foundations.
i would also like to mention the very good progress made in the negotiations on the unitary patent, which showed the energy and constructive approach needed.
i call on the member states quickly to resolve among themselves the one outstanding issue: the seat of the litigation court under the intergovernmental agreement.growth is also about green growth, energy security and the fight against climate change, and we are moving forward on all these fronts.
the commission has already tabled proposals on completing the internal energy market, boosting energy efficiency, enhancing the coherence and coordination of our external energy policy and improving nuclear safety.
let me emphasise in particular the commitment of poland to reinforcing the external dimension of the energy policy that has been adopted by the energy council.
on the fight against climate change, durban was certainly not a perfect agreement, but in the difficult circumstances we can say that it achieved some important results; in spite of all the scepticism it was possible to make progress, with all major emitters agreeing for the first time to have a new comprehensive and binding legal instrument, which will include limits on co2 emissions.
we will now continue our efforts with our international partners to flesh out a new global climate agreement involving all countries as quickly as possible, and we will no doubt have a strong partner in this parliament.
the polish presidency has also put a lot of energy into defending a united europe, and you have just heard the inspiring words of prime minister tusk.
it had ambitious priorities: a dynamic economy, an open union to its neighbours and new members, and security in military and energy terms.
you could have proposed a suspension, a cancellation of the climate package due to the crisis in europe, which is the climate package in its current form will cause electricity prices in poland to increase by 100% within 8-10 years.
you could have initiated the discussion and put shale gas on the european energy solidarity wheel guaranteeing the development of our country and the energy security of europe.
doesn't mrs. kolarska-bobińska remember that when france was president in 2008, she knee-deeped in the climate package?
as for the friendly, but also at times critical, voice of our friend mr eickhout, representing the greens/efa group on the durban issue: it is no secret that poland is not at the forefront of the climate movement.
in the case of durban, as in all other climate action, but particularly when we talk about the issues that were decided in durban, the polish presidency was concerned above all that europe should not be alone in this effort to promote climate action.
we believe - and i will always stress this - that climate action is an absolute priority for the european union, but it should not be naive action, and it would be if we were taking on challenges that are not global challenges, that is, not being taken on by our partners outside the european union.
you are right, it is unsatisfactory, but i hope that in the future we will be able to build this climate agreement not only in the european union, but that we will be able to bring russia, china, brazil, india, the united states, among others, more and more effectively into this, so that we are not alone in this effort, because then we may pay too high a price, especially at this critical time.
i hope we can keep up the pro-european optimism and energy, because we need them very much.
these are perhaps the most important tools in times of crisis, the ones that seem light, the ones that are hard to measure, but perhaps the most important: energy, optimism, trust.
he also gave - i am convinced - a lot of strength and energy to the polish presidency.
poland has been known in europe as a country that takes a lot of european funds and resists action to combat climate change.
i believe that the quality of each product is ecological, ethical and social quality, and european products of high standard make healthy and especially sustainable nutrition possible.
the very low level of expenditure and, above all, the waste of the european members' resources, could threaten the alliance's continued existence and this should be our primary focus.
first, i believe that the european external action service should have more specialists on important eu and global issues - such as energy security, climate and environmental issues, economic and development issues, finance and many others.
the first is energy and our right to build a competitive energy supply system for ourselves.
an effective european energy policy depends on our common, unified position, which should be the starting point for all negotiations with our partners outside the continent and for the implementation of the new energy programme.
sustainable economic and social development, the emergence and operation of open, democratic political groups and ngos will also strengthen relations with brussels and contribute to the prosperity of these countries.
i would like to point out that we should be concerned about the sustainable socioeconomic development of our neighbours.
the agency is verified on a daily basis in practice, by organising inspections at sea and preventing various pollution.
first of all, i would like to emphasise that i highly value emsa's work on safety and environmental matters at sea.
it all started with the report on the 2009 communication on a sustainable future for transport.
this is why i am convinced that curbing mobility is not a sensible alternative in order to make transport sustainable.
but i am also convinced that, without finding ways of using less and cleaner energy and of better exploiting infrastructure, we will be forced into such a detrimental alternative.
the white paper sets a target for a 60% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 with respect to 1990 and ten goals that will benchmark progress until that date.
i will continue, based on the wide support given in your report to several key proposals, such as the internalisation of external costs of transport; the single european sky; the maritime ‘blue belt’; urban sustainable mobility plans and, in general, the completion of the internal market in transport.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
however, the development of this sector of the economy must be sustainable and linked to international cooperation.
in my opinion on the creation of a single european transport area, i focus on the need to move towards technologies based on non-fossil fuels, which are less harmful to air emissions, to reduce energy and fuel consumption by promoting clean driving and the use of fuel-saving technologies, and to support research to accelerate the introduction of eco-innovation and new technologies in transport.
in the economic area, the energy issue and nabucco.
we should be more active in the energy sector and in the whole of the rare earth strategy.
one of the key objectives of the europe 2020 strategy is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and make the union a world leader in green technologies.
it is therefore to be welcomed that we have an effective instrument to achieve this, namely intelligent energy for europe.
the decade of its existence has shown very clearly that the objectives and mechanisms adopted under the framework contribute to improving energy efficiency, promoting renewable energy sources and, above all, to the exchange of experience between scientists and experts in this field.
it's worth it to not let that experience go to waste.
the new energy sources that are giving europe energy independence and that need attention are, for example, the shale gas deposits recently discovered in poland.
it may be worth considering whether this experience could be transferred to other instruments and mechanisms in order to increase the effectiveness of the union and its member states' actions towards smart and sustainable development.
this program requires us to improve energy efficiency.
europe continues to make unreasonable use of the energy resources at its disposal.
public education in areas such as energy efficiency and reduction of energy consumption is the most effective way to build sustainable solutions in creating energy security and sustainable development.
changes in the new policy must continue to go hand in hand with environmental protection.
the key action remains the reduction of co2 emissions and the reduction of energy consumption.
taking care of the environment is our responsibility to future generations, and the way to succeed in this is through a modern approach to energy and the way we use renewable energy.
finally, the energy market should be monitored more closely, both at eu and national level, as the increase in energy costs is very burdensome for consumers.
in today’s europe, just as it was in the 1950s, energy is at the heart of our economy.
this is why i made a special appeal with jacques delors to create a genuine european energy community.
it is this very europe that i will always serve with energy and determination.
but we must be aware of the need for new regulations in the services market, as well as in the energy and food markets.
sustainable regional development should therefore be promoted, which requires a particular increase in the resources allocated to less developed areas.
yet i remain hopeful the new strategy will prioritise democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law above any economic, energy or security interests.