a threat to an ecosystem which is a repository of enormous biodiversity and of great importance in the regulation of biogeochemical cycles.
the agreement highlights the issues of non-discrimination between european air carriers and the taxation of aviation fuel in accordance with the respective directive on the taxation of energy products and electricity.
i would stress the non-discrimination clause in the agreement between european airlines, the taxation of aviation fuel in accordance with the directive on the taxation of energy products and electricity, the conformity of the provisions of the bilateral agreements with community competition law and regulatory control, measures which will allow the opening up of markets and, consequently, the creation of investment opportunities for both parties.
i approve this regulation, which will certainly increase the safety of transporting these products, protect the health and safety of all workers in the sector and contribute to the gradual abandonment of practices harmful to the environment.
in the present economic climate, in which the construction sector has been particularly affected, the proposed regulation aims to promote the free movement of goods and services in an efficient and transparent manner for the construction sector.
in view of the increasing number and intensity of natural disasters caused by climate change, i agree with the position that not only timely aid is important, but also support for the communities' own capacities to prepare better for disasters, and that the hyogo action plan needs to be strengthened.
it is also important to encourage dialogue between political, military and humanitarian actors sharing the same operational environment, and to create a european rapid reaction capability (european civil protection force).
the humanitarian context has changed profoundly in recent years, in particular with the significant increase in the number and intensity of natural disasters, also caused by the impact of climate change.
although this is a very important issue, the impact of climate change on these disasters should not be addressed in this context.
the new cap, which is due to come into force after 2013, must respond to food security and other challenges, including climate change, the economic crisis and maintaining the territorial balance in the eu.
on the other hand, the eu's ambitious energy targets have encouraged the large-scale cultivation of biofuels, but their production competes with food production in terms of land use, which has a potentially negative impact on food security.
food security through agricultural policy a strong but coherent common with social concerns: consistent in not allowing production surpluses that distort the market and raise environmental problems; social by ensuring that all social strata have access to food and with quality.
financial investment in these sectors will be key to effective land use in certain regions, as will energy investment that reduces the dependence between food and energy security.
i also believe that fair incomes in the agricultural sector should be ensured, because it is only possible to stimulate sustainable and ethical production systems if farmers are properly compensated for the investments they make and the commitments they make.
− i voted in favour of the report on agriculture as a strategic sector in the context of food security, because it makes important proposals on how the cap, which is due to come into force after 2013, should respond to the challenges of food security, climate change, economic crisis, maintaining the territorial balance in the eu, among others.
i would also like to stress the recognition of traditional agriculture, in particular organic farming and small-scale production in the less-favoured regions, which is not only an economic asset but also an environmental asset, and is essential for the maintenance of biodiversity.
i hope that the new cap will respond effectively to the problems facing the sector: climate change, consumer prices and farmers' incomes.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i believe that the eu has a duty to feed its citizens and the world's population itself, with an estimated growth of 2 billion people and a 70% increase in food needs by 2050. the increase in production must meet criteria relating to the environment, food safety, animal welfare and labour, criteria which the least developed countries, to which distribution has been shifted, are clearly not able to meet.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
climate events, speculation and price volatility have had a negative impact on farmers' capacity.
mr president, in the name of financial consolidation, so-called austerity programmes are aggravating the divisions in the european union, promoting anti-social policies, undermining labour rights and cutting public investment, particularly in the area of innovation and energy.
and so the question is what measures will be taken to change the situation, to ensure that innovation is actually supported in countries like portugal and others that do not have sufficient public investment foreseen for these areas and also to ensure that people and industries have access to energy, given the high prices being charged and the difficulties being felt in many places.
and that is why i would like to say the following: speaking of cooperation, we all know and we all know that none of this work can be done in isolation and also here in parliament the work has been done in cooperation with all the shadow rapporteurs from all the parliamentary groups, with the support of the three women who helped me in the environment committee, in my parliamentary group, in my delegation.
i would like to highlight the case of cuba, whose government has sent doctors and specialists who have treated more than 50 000 people for cholera, but i would also like to highlight the financial support from alba and other support in the areas of energy, agriculture and food.
i would therefore like to say that, apart from the priority which the hungarian presidency will naturally give to the economic and financial issues on the agenda, i am very pleased to see that the hungarian agenda for this semester is very clear and very ambitious in that it focuses and prioritises on three issues which will be essential for the future of europe: food, which is entering a serious global crisis; energy, which is essential for our security and for our economic sustainability; and water, which has not been much talked about but which will be the next challenge for europeans after food.
the last country in the tripartite presidency, shared by spain and belgium, has as its main agenda the economic recovery, the integration of the roma people, an energy strategy, the enlargement process and the involvement of citizens in the european project.
i would stress its importance in combating deforestation and forest degradation, and the resulting carbon emissions and loss of biodiversity worldwide.
those agreements promote economic growth, human development and sustainable food sources at the same time.
- i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on flegt voluntary partnership agreements (vpas), as the negotiation of these vpas should allow the definition of good practices for future negotiations with timber-producing countries with a view to eradicating illegal logging and the conservation and sustainable use of forest resources at global level.
- illegal logging is a real plunder of the natural resources of producing countries, usually developing countries, and a clear attack on biodiversity and the quality of life of the population and its prospects for the future.
− the european union has been fighting against illegal logging, seeking to conserve and promote the sustainable use of forest resources globally.
i therefore welcome the conclusion of the voluntary partnership agreements (vpas) with cameroon and the republic of congo to improve forest governance and reform existing legislation where necessary to ensure that forestry activities are transparent, respect the rights of indigenous peoples and do not contribute to adverse environmental effects.
these agreements are key to eradicating illegal logging, halting deforestation, forest degradation and the resulting carbon emissions and loss of biodiversity worldwide.
- logging in african countries is often carried out illegally, which is very bad for the protection of the natural resources of the producing countries and is also a threat to biodiversity and the quality of life of the population and its prospects for the future.
in this context, i welcome the eu's assumption of its share of responsibility in eradicating illegal logging, as well as the related trade and enforcement efforts towards the conservation and sustainable use of forest resources globally.
i welcome the fact that the commitments made by the parties involved to improve forest governance are transparent and respect the rights of indigenous peoples, ensuring forest biodiversity, climate and sustainable human development.
i also believe that this agreement is of the utmost importance as this country is the main african exporter of timber to europe and has serious problems at various levels of governance, such as environmental degradation and corruption.
it is also necessary to ensure compliance with the international commitments made by the eu and cameroon in environmental terms, the adoption of civil society oversight and greater involvement of local and indigenous communities, ensuring that they enjoy their fundamental rights.
− i welcome the commitments made between the eu and the republic of cameroon to improve forest governance and reform existing legislation where necessary to ensure that forestry activities are transparent, respect the rights of indigenous peoples and do not contribute to adverse environmental effects.
the forest environment is a common heritage of humanity and must be protected, preserved and, if possible, restored with the ultimate aim of maintaining global biodiversity and ecosystem functions, protecting the climate.
− the european union has been fighting against illegal logging, seeking to conserve and promote the sustainable use of forest resources globally.
i therefore welcome the conclusion of the voluntary partnership agreements (vpas) with cameroon to improve forest governance and reform existing legislation where necessary to ensure that forestry activities are transparent, respect the rights of indigenous peoples and do not contribute to adverse environmental effects.
these agreements are key to eradicating illegal logging, halting deforestation, forest degradation and the resulting carbon emissions and loss of biodiversity worldwide.
- the objectives set out in this agreement, aimed at the traceability and certification of wood products originating in the republic of cameroon, while apparently meritorious, do not respond in the way we believe would be necessary to the problem of the destruction of forests and, with it, the threat to the integrity of resources of extreme ecological and conservation value, on which the existence and the way of life of local communities and indigenous peoples depend.
in particular, the agreement does not exclude the possibility that large-scale industrial exploitation may encourage forest degradation and deforestation, including in intact forest areas of high biodiversity.
the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat climate change, and for the eu to take action to combat climate change.
- logging in african countries is often carried out illegally, which is very bad for the protection of the natural resources of the producing countries and is also a threat to biodiversity and the quality of life of the population and its prospects for the future.
i hope that the agreement negotiated with cameroon will combat the illegal exploitation of that country's timber resources effectively, thereby contributing to the improvement of the living conditions of the people who live off the income of this economic sector, and also contributing to the improvement of biodiversity and the protection of cameroon's natural resources.
i agree with the rapporteur when he stresses the need for the european parliament, in the light of the new powers conferred by the treaty of lisbon, to monitor the different stages of negotiation and implementation of the vpas, requesting the commission, among other documents for the analysis of the implementation of the agreement, to carry out studies on the social, economic and environmental impacts of this agreement.
i also agree with the need to ensure that the congo fulfils its international commitments in terms of human rights and the environment.
it is necessary to ensure that forestry activities are transparent, respect the rights of the people and do not contribute to adverse environmental effects.
− the european union has been fighting against illegal logging, seeking to conserve and promote the sustainable use of forest resources globally.
i therefore welcome the conclusion of the voluntary partnership agreements (vpas) with the republic of congo to improve forest governance and reform existing legislation where necessary to ensure that forestry sector activities are transparent, respect the rights of indigenous peoples and do not contribute to adverse environmental effects.
these agreements are key to eradicating illegal logging, halting deforestation, forest degradation and the resulting carbon emissions and loss of biodiversity worldwide.
- this agreement aims to ensure the traceability and certification of wood products originating in the republic of congo, objectives which, while seemingly meritorious, do not respond to the way we understand that would be necessary to the problem of the destruction of forests of high ecological and conservation value, on which local communities and indigenous peoples depend.
this could result in clear contradictions with the eu's stated objectives of combating climate change and protecting biodiversity.
- logging in african countries is often carried out illegally, which is very bad for the protection of the natural resources of the producing countries and is also a threat to biodiversity and the quality of life of the population and its prospects for the future.
i hope that the agreement negotiated with the congo will effectively combat illegal logging in that country, thereby contributing to the improvement of the living conditions of the people who live off the income from this economic sector, and also contributing to the improvement of biodiversity and the protection of the congolese natural resources.
it is important to ensure that timber and timber products from the congo enter european markets lawfully and that the reforms implemented ensure respect for the rights of local and indigenous communities, contribute to improving the living conditions of the population and to preserving the environment, and have an effective impact on the fight against corruption and on the capacity building of local civil society.
the eu has an important role to play in promoting sustainable social and economic development in the acp countries and in contributing to the overall effort to eradicate poverty in these countries.
trade relations between this region and the eu should therefore foster and increase trade, sustainable development and regional integration, while contributing to economic diversification and poverty reduction.
- i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the partnership agreement will support regional integration and promote the progressive integration of the acp economies into the world economy, while at the same time promoting the sustainable social and economic development of these countries and also contributing to the eradication of poverty.
− the partnership agreements between the ec and the pacific states should aim at increasing trade, sustainable development and regional integration, while promoting economic diversification and poverty reduction.
− it is clear from this european parliament resolution on the ec-pacific provisional partnership agreement that there is a widespread belief that promoting trade relations between the ec and the pacific states and the eu should foster and increase trade, sustainable development and regional integration, while promoting economic diversification and poverty reduction, and that this interim agreement should fulfil the millennium development goals.
i voted in favour because i am convinced that this epa can contribute to the economic development of these regions and i share the concerns expressed in the resolution that this development must be accompanied by policies of environmental sustainability and inclusion.
- i voted in favour of this resolution on the interim partnership agreement between the ec and the pacific states, hoping that this agreement, now limited to two countries papua new guinea and the fiji islands , can pave the way for the conclusion of a broader agreement, which constitutes an instrument for promoting sustainable social and economic development in the pacific region, as well as for poverty reduction and the strengthening of regional integration and cooperation, in line with the millennium development goals.
− the partnership agreements between the ec and the pacific states should aim at increasing trade, sustainable development and regional integration, while promoting economic diversification and poverty reduction.
- i voted in favour of this report, as i believe that promoting trade relations between the pacific states and the eu can contribute to promoting the sustainable social and economic development of the region, as well as to reducing poverty and strengthening regional integration and cooperation, in line with the millennium development goals.
- the right of a child to grow up in a healthy family environment, conducive to his or her harmonious development, is the key concept behind this resolution.
with the eu's ageing population, experts predict a doubling of these figures by 2040. in view of this phenomenon of an ageing population and the decreasing ratio between the active population and the retired population, dementia is expected to pose one of the main challenges to the sustainability of national health and social security systems.
we are aware that the negotiations between the european commission and libya are at an advanced stage, although they are facing difficulties in the area of trade and energy cooperation.
- i welcome the commitments made through the framework agreement currently under negotiation, which covers a wide range of issues, from strengthening political dialogue to managing migration, developing trade and economic relations, energy security and improving cooperation in various sectors.
libya has the largest proven oil reserves in africa and is the third largest supplier of energy (oil and gas) to europe.
− the opening of negotiations by the european union with libya is an opportunity to secure better conditions for the economic development of both parties and, at the same time, to promote serious developments in the mediterranean region and in africa in terms of respect for human rights and its contribution to global peace and stability and to the fight against climate change.
it has the largest proven oil reserves in africa and is the third largest supplier of energy (in oil and gas) in europe.
the eu is its largest trading partner: transactions between the two parties accounted for almost 70% of libya's total trade in 2009. the framework partnership agreement with the eu should be seen as an opportunity to highlight the advantages of humanist values and democracy for sustainable and diversified development.
this role of libya as a partner in the mediterranean region and in africa in many areas has proven to have a major impact on the security and stability of the region, including migration, public health, development, trade and economic relations, climate change, energy and cultural heritage.
i am disappointed that it has not yet been possible to improve the competitive environment within the single market in a way that is more favourable to smes.
− eu competition policy is not only a fundamental and truly structural policy of the european legal framework, but also the foundation of a successful internal market and a sustainable and competitive economy.
i therefore welcome the adoption of this resolution, welcoming the creation of a set of market monitoring measures, the environmental concern with co2 emissions and the encouragement of research to improve competitiveness in europe, in particular by recommending that the commission and the member states ensure 3% investment in this area.
we cannot forget that the eu's competition policy is based on the principles of open markets and a level playing field in all sectors, which is the foundation of a successful internal market and a precondition for the creation of sustainable and knowledge-based jobs.
i regret, however, that there are still distortions of competition in the energy market and i support the invitation to the european commission in the document put to the vote today to monitor closely the implementation of the third energy liberalisation package by the member states.
in addition, the eu is at the forefront of certain policies, such as environmental research and climate change.
in addition to this, it is necessary to take into account that some arctic partners are already major contributors to the supply of energy, raw materials and fish to europe.
its variety of resources and its potential for alternative energies can only be developed through an ecosystem approach and integrated management plans.
like the author of this report, i consider that cooperation to protect the fragile arctic environment, the interests of its inhabitants and the development of the region is very welcome.
− in the current priority framework for combating climate change, the defence and promotion of the arctic is of crucial importance, not only in environmental terms, but also in terms of economic development and global stability and security.
the potential of the region to supply renewable energy and raw fish is highlighted, and the sustainable exploitation of the natural resources of this region is therefore key.
given the contribution of the eu and its member states to research and funding, its impact through eu legislation on the environment, climate, fisheries and similar issues, as well as the possibilities for future cooperation on issues such as the development of mapping and maritime security, economic development and similar issues, it can be concluded that the eu has a major contribution to make to the sustainable development of the arctic.
this region will be crucial to a world that is adapting to face climate change, population growth and resource scarcity.
i therefore welcome the initiative and the adoption of this report, which i strongly support, and hope that the recommendations now adopted by the european parliament will be welcomed by the commission, the council and our neighbours to the east who share the management of the black sea with us, in particular those relating to frozen conflicts, closed borders and/or poor border control, energy transport, security and defence.
only by resolving these issues can the two main objectives proposed by the report be achieved: (1) peace, democracy, stability and prosperity in the region; (2) energy security for the eu.
in a context encompassing eu member states bulgaria, greece and romania , together with turkey and several states of the former soviet bloc, including russia, the black sea is seen as a key to energy supply and diversification of gas distribution.
on the other hand, concerns about security and energy supply lead to the need for greater involvement between the european union and the states of the region.
i therefore agree that the main concerns expressed in the report are to ensure peace, democracy and stability in the black sea region and to ensure the energy security of the european union.
in addition, the challenges of energy security and supply require the european union to be more involved and focused in relations with the member states of this region.
i therefore subscribe to the concerns expressed in the document voted on today, which must be of two kinds: ensuring peace, democracy and stability in the black sea region and ensuring the energy security of the european union.
i believe that from a regional point of view it is necessary to create synergies and develop greater cooperation in order to achieve a more effective partnership in the field of transport and energy, with a view to a greater diversification of supply routes and sources.
first, let me outline the main issues on the agenda for the february meeting, which will focus primarily on energy and innovation.
in the context of defining the europe 2020 strategy, the european council decided in march 2010 to hold a thematic debate on energy and innovation.
let's start with the energy issue.
energy security is a priority for all of us.
this requires greater integration and interconnection of the energy market.
we need to increase our r&d spending, make our economy more competitive and sustainable, and strengthen our cooperation with the main transit, energy producing and energy consuming countries.
the first element is therefore an integrated and interconnected energy market.
we need to have a complete internal energy market.
firstly, the legislation on the internal energy market needs to be implemented.
in addition, we need to make a serious effort to modernise and expand europe's energy infrastructure and to link markets through cross-border cooperation.
thirdly, there will be projects which, although of great importance for energy security, are not attractive enough for private capital to finance in full.
the second big energy issue is energy efficiency and renewable energy.
these - needless to say - increase competitiveness and promote security of energy supply and sustainability at lower costs.
the council will examine in 2011 the proposal that the commission will present for a new energy efficiency plan.
the proposal will take account of the progress made towards the eu's energy efficiency target for 2013 and will include further measures.
external relations are also of paramount importance in energy policy.
for example, it would be appropriate for member states to share information on contracts concluded not only for natural gas, as they currently do, but also for other types of energy.
innovation is what can help address the most critical societal challenges of our time, such as health, food security, energy security, sustainable development, climate change and an ageing population, and also offer opportunities for new markets.
energy and innovation: investing for the future.
this friday, the european council will discuss two areas which are also very important for the future of europe and its economy: energy and innovation.
both of them are core elements of the europe 2020 strategy and central to our aim of restoring sustainable growth and increasing the european union’s competitiveness.
and let us not forget that energy and innovation are also two fields where the community approach and european dimension can offer a lot of value added.
through the europe 2020 strategy we have already agreed on a set of ambitious goals and targets on energy innovation.
i could mention the innovation union flagship initiative, adopted last october, or the resource efficient europe flagship initiative, adopted just last week and in which energy features prominently.
i have described energy policy as the next great european integration project and it is not hard to see why a safe, secure, sustainable, affordable energy supply is key to our economic and strategic interests as a global player.
we have already done a lot in the past with our climate and energy package and with internal market legislation.
we must build on that by exploiting the opportunities provided by the lisbon treaty, deepening our existing cooperation and launching initiatives in new areas like energy security.
therefore the first credibility test of our energy policy is delivering what we have already agreed upon.
the commission has outlined the measures we think are urgently needed in our energy 2020 and energy infrastructure communications.
i want the european council to endorse these priorities and, in particular, make a clear commitment to completing our internal energy market by 2014. a common technical standard should also be fixed for electric vehicle charging systems this year, as well as for smart grids and meters by the end of 2012. a truly integrated internal market on energy is key to delivering more growth and jobs, promoting technological progress, modernising our infrastructure and reducing our exposure to import and price volatility.
we must also ensure that, when it comes to energy, no member state is isolated from the rest of europe.
i want member states to agree on a 2015 deadline to put an end to energy islands in europe.
now i will turn to central and eastern europe to move forward the north-south energy interconnections.
while we are on track to achieve our renewables targets, on present performance we will only meet half of our energy efficiency targets.
more efficient energy use is the key to unlocking massive environmental and economic benefits – and reducing europe’s annual energy bill by around eur 200 billion.
it could also create two million jobs by 2020. so i will ask the european council to give new impetus to our pursuit of energy efficiency.
we could use the scale of public procurement across the eu to give a real boost to energy efficiency and this means local jobs, jobs that cannot be outsourced, jobs for smes and real savings for both industry and households.
the commission will adopt in the coming weeks an energy efficiency plan proposing specific measures to boost energy efficiency; for instance, that by 1 january 2012 all member states should include energy efficiency standards in public procurement.
member states should agree a deadline for including energy efficiency standards in all public procurement for public buildings and services.
for its part, the commission stands ready to explore new measures in the fields of energy saving for cities, sustainable biofuels, smart grids and energy storage.
we also need to focus on the external dimension of european energy policy.
the message i took from that visit is this: when we take key decisions on energy jointly in europe, we are a strong player in the global race for energy resources.
underlining the importance of the external dimension of the european union energy policy should be a key message from the european council, so i am looking forward to a very important discussion on energy at this european council and – i am happy to say this – here in the european parliament.
i know this parliament is very supportive of a strong european policy on energy and the president of parliament has been a champion of a stronger commitment by europe in terms of energy policy.
so this month’s european council will discuss energy and innovation.
as we know, energy is a vital sector for creating new jobs and opportunity should therefore be the keyword of this council which we are now preparing.
when we need concrete investment to address the energy efficiency of our cities, and particularly in countries that are being subjected to the greatest speculative attacks and, above all, in countries that have the highest levels of unemployment, what we get from governments are answers that are the old recipes and it is on them that we continue to insist.
what we need in this council is an energy revolution.
we are still very much stuck with the old energy, fossil fuels, nuclear energy and very unambitious about the new energy, which is the only one that can guarantee equal access and which is the only one that can guarantee that a large project is as important as a local project.
we want to make clear here our opposition to this path in areas which are strategic for economic and social development, particularly in the peripheral countries, such as energy issues.
but the most serious thing is that all that has been said here by the council and the commission, particularly on the strengthening of economic governance, ignores the reality of social problems, the worsening of inequalities, unemployment, social exclusion and energy poverty, which is growing exponentially in some countries with the increase in electricity and fuel prices.
economic and energy policies should have a central objective: social progress, the improvement of the living conditions of our peoples, but the opposite is happening.
i have no doubt that this council will be very important, particularly in relation to the relaunch of european economies, particularly in the areas of energy and innovation.
i would like to ask the council to discuss, among other important issues, energy and innovation, and to prepare a solution to the financial crisis in the european union.
i don't think we have time to waste.
it is therefore, despite the importance of energy and innovation, that the financial and political crisis in the north african countries should be dealt with by this council.
mr president, energy and innovation are two very important subjects, which are at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy and which can contribute to sustainable and smart growth and to the creation of more and better jobs.
in fact, energy and innovation are areas in which my country, portugal, has made major investments with good results.
in recent years portugal has doubled its investment in r&d and has reached the top 5 for renewable energy, so that 31% of electricity consumed is already from renewable sources and is expected to be 60% by 2020. but this council cannot ignore, as has already been said here, what is happening in egypt, a popular revolution.
this council adopts energy and innovation as its topics of discussion.
in the meantime, and as a way of making this path more feasible, questions concerning the security of energy supply are raised (demagogically), which are certainly relevant and should be considered and solved, but in a different context.
the areas of energy and innovation are key to growth and jobs.
energy is a major project of european integration, as the internal market was in the past.
europe needs an ambitious vision and a concrete plan in the area of innovation and energy.
much has been done in the european energy and climate strategy, but we need to go further.
and there's one way to do that: radically change the way we produce and use energy in our society.
- i welcome the eu's commitment to support the acp group in its efforts to achieve sustainable economic and social development.
it is important to promote the economic diversification of regions and to strengthen their competitiveness, taking into account the adaptation policies and strategies of the countries and their regional environment.
i call for eu assistance to focus on improving the living standards and conditions of the population and, where relevant, of small entities, in particular by respecting labour, safety and environmental standards.
in africa alone, there are about 500,000 people whose livelihoods depend on the banana sector - considered a pole of sustainable development that has made it possible to install health, water, energy and housing infrastructure.
these and other concerns, which were clearly stated in the final text, such as environmental, health and labour standards, together with the fulfilment of specific criteria for the allocation of funds, led me to vote in favour.
the plan is to run for four years, from 2010 to 2013, and according to the document, the measures should be guided by the objectives of development and poverty eradication, taking into account environmental, health and labour standards, and the specific criteria for the allocation of funds should be formulated.
i would stress the importance of strategic investments in renewable energy, environmental protection policies, culture and small and mediumsized enterprises, and the importance of taking measures to avoid food and raw materials crises.
finally, i hope that these agreements will help to improve competitiveness and promote policies of economic diversification and help to raise the social, economic and environmental level of these developing countries, not forgetting, of course, the measures to support the eu's outermost banana-producing regions under posei.
the small and mediumsized producers, social and labour rights and environmental protection continue to be sacrificed on the altar of free trade, reduced to mere verbs in official discourse, trampled on in practice every day, as we have seen once again.
- i approve this report as it takes account of the current need to integrate and increase the functionality and effectiveness of the disposal of waste electrical and electronic equipment.
despite the positive figures, which show that about 85% of this type of waste is collected, it is nevertheless found that, if we compare the quantity collected with the number of equipment placed on the market, we find that 65% of the equipment sold is collected again and that a large part of this data is not reported to the authorities or treated appropriately.
i also support the idea that the implementation of the directive could increase the rate of waste treated and released, particularly as regards the collection rate, responsibility for achieving the collection objective and consumer responsibility.
− prevention of waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee), and its reuse and recycling are fundamental to sustainable production and consumption.
it is essential to reduce the amount of waste to be disposed of and to contribute to the efficient use of resources.
i call for better environmental performance by all operators involved in the life cycle of electrical and electronic equipment, namely producers, distributors and consumers, and in particular by operators directly involved in the collection and treatment of waste electrical and electronic equipment.
in order to achieve the desired level of protection of human health and the environment, separate collection is a precondition for ensuring specific treatment and recycling of weee.
to this end, appropriate facilities for the delivery of weee, including public collection centres, where individuals can deliver such waste at least free of charge, should be established.
- i voted in favour of the report on waste electrical and electronic equipment because it contains proposals which should help to reduce administrative burdens and strengthen the protection of the environment and human health by preventing or reducing the adverse impacts of the management of waste electrical and electronic equipment, with benefits for society.
− waste electrical and electronic equipment has grown exponentially across the union and its treatment and conversion is now a particularly important problem in the european context.
in addition to the environmental and public health issues, which are in themselves of concern, the non-reuse of raw materials leads to inefficiency and an additional cost to the production system, which could be offset by improving the use of the materials in the equipment in question.
− the establishment of clear rules and objectives for the management of waste electrical and electronic equipment is absolutely key to the sustainable consolidation of the internal market and to better environmental quality in the european union, as well as to the recovery of strategic raw materials.
it is essential that we know how to make better use of the resources available, especially in the face of the recognized scarcity of raw materials, and to value the wealth or added value that waste represents for our economy.
in a developed europe, it is important to meet the target of 85% of electrical and electronic equipment being collected by 2016 (as proposed by me in the committee on the environment, which was approved) and recycled between 50 and 75% of this equipment.
- waste streams of electrical and electronic equipment have been increasing in the european union.
the collection and treatment of waste electrical and electronic equipment is important and necessary, taking into account not only the potential consequences for the environment and public health of this waste, but also the loss of secondary raw materials if not carried out, which is a serious problem.
some 85% of waste electrical and electronic equipment produced is already collected in the eu.
however, there are illegal shipments of this waste outside the eu, which reinforces the important role of member states in the control and supervision of collection and treatment.
the proposal for a directive provides for a number of possible approaches for member states, ranging from restricting the circle of those who are authorised to collect waste equipment, to increasing the number of collection points, to requiring producers to set up incentive schemes for the delivery of waste equipment by consumers.
- economic growth and the constant technological evolution of electrical and electronic equipment have brought a major problem, namely the treatment of its waste.
this situation raises a number of problems, including environmental, public health and economic problems, which are now aggravated by the crisis the world is going through and which is reflected in the cost of treating this waste.
we must therefore find ways of dealing with waste that do not, at the same time, impede the necessary sustained growth of the eu economies.
- i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a directive recasting directive 2002/96/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 27 january 2003 on waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee).
weee is the fastest growing waste stream in the eu and it is essential to promote increased collection and proper treatment of waste.
the serious consequences of inappropriate disposal of weee in terms of damage to the environment and public health and loss of raw materials should be avoided.
the amendments now proposed are therefore welcome, and they aim precisely to create a higher separate collection rate, reduce the loss of waste equipment in the weee system, prevent illegal shipments and ensure a high level of treatment of waste electrical and electronic equipment.
- i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the waste crisis in the province of campania because i believe that in the context of the waste management crisis it is essential to implement the derogation from regulations and controls, which includes, for example, the exemption from environmental impact studies and the non-application of public procurement legislation.
i also believe that it is essential that compliance with eu waste legislation in campania and other regions of europe requires a very strong effort to reduce the volume of waste and to tip the balance towards waste prevention, reduction, reuse and recycling through the provision of appropriate infrastructure, and that greater emphasis should be placed on the recovery of organic waste, especially in this heavily agricultural region.
- waste management has been a problem in many regions of italy, particularly in the province of campania.
it is essential to ensure that waste is recovered or disposed of without endangering human health and without using processes or methods likely to harm the environment.
a sustainable solution is urgently needed through the implementation of a waste management plan.
it is important to reduce the volume of waste and to tip the balance towards waste prevention, reduction, reuse and recycling.
i call for greater emphasis on the recovery of organic waste, especially in this heavily agricultural region, for data to be verified and for a system to be set up for the exchange of good practice.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on the waste crisis in campania because it underlines the importance of this issue in environmental terms, particularly with regard to the protection of natura 2000 sites.
- a sustainable solution to the waste crisis in the province of campania, the most complex of all the waste management problems in italian regions, needs to be found.
union criteria need to be fulfilled, in particular the implementation of a waste management plan in accordance with directive 2008/98/ec.
there is an urgent need to make an effort to reduce the volume of waste and to shift the balance towards the prevention, reduction, reuse and recycling of waste through the provision of appropriate infrastructure.
− the european union has taken an exemplary leadership role in the fight against climate change and in promoting environmental quality.
the increased effort which must be made in the field of proper waste collection and treatment is obvious, with a view to better waste management and its use for the benefit of quality of life and economic development.
it is in this context that i support measures which will encourage best environmental practice in the troubled region of campania in italy.
i would stress that the local risks of harmful effects arising from improper waste treatment and storage will certainly have an impact on the quality of life of citizens, who must also be made aware of and mobilised for the good management of waste as a decisive factor in protecting the environment and promoting the quality of life of both present and future generations.
however, the efforts and capacity of the local authorities, which took extraordinary measures in the last municipal waste crisis, which occurred in autumn 2010, complying with the requirements of the ecj judgment of 4 march 2010, should be acknowledged.
- in the context of the urgency of finding a solution to the waste crisis in campania, italy, the adopted document refers to the need to tip the balance towards waste prevention, reduction, reuse and recycling.
the waste crisis in campania demonstrates the danger of subjecting environmental management in all its aspects to a mere profit-making logic.
the waste problem, given its nature and its dangers, given its obvious and close interrelations with pressing issues of public health and environmental protection, is a paradigmatic one and must therefore be ensured by means of efficient and quality public services, and it is not acceptable to leave it to market dynamics.
the waste crisis in campania and other regions of italy highlights the dangers of handing over environmental management to private companies with a profit motive.
the european institutions have been silent accomplices in this attack on people and the ecosystem.
- the waste crisis in campania has been unsustainable for several years and goes against all the rules adopted by all eu member states.
it is therefore necessary to rapidly implement a waste management plan in which compliance with the waste hierarchy is a key prerequisite in accordance with directive 2008/98/ec.
the european parliament should be kept informed of developments in the situation, in particular on the implementation of a waste management plan, in accordance with the judgment of the court of justice of 4 march 2010 and eu legislation.
− on 4 march 2010, the court of justice of the european union found that italy had infringed european union law by failing to set up in campania an integrated and adequate network of waste disposal facilities to ensure that waste was recovered and disposed of without endangering human health and without harming the environment (judgment in case c 297/08).
− in recent years, the italian region of campania has been facing serious problems in waste collection and disposal, which seriously affect the well-being of the local population and pose serious risks to the environment and public health.
it is therefore essential that the italian authorities, following the judgment of the court of justice of 14 may 2010, take the necessary measures to definitively and satisfactorily resolve the waste management crises in this region, ensuring full compliance with community law.
mr president, a nuclear accident or any other case of radiological emergency, given its gravity and its transfrontier nature, naturally requires coordination and concertation of efforts and the establishment of a set of common procedures with a view to containing and minimising the effects on the population and the environment.
it is also true, and for the most part, in emergency situations, and therefore they should be able to take on more demanding levels of protection if they so wish, which should in all respects be possible through the adoption of exceptional measures with a view to safeguarding the health of the population and the environment.
mr president, the management of innovation, that is to say research and development of new technologies and production processes, their large-scale application and the selection of the appropriate times for such application should be guided primarily by the protection of the public interest, the improvement of the quality of life of the population and the preservation of the environment.
this is also true in the case of vehicle emissions.
given that the transport sector is responsible for a substantial share of co2 emissions, a proportionate share of the reduction efforts should be focused here.
the increase in the energy efficiency of vehicles, the reduction of fuel consumption and, in general, the development of low-carbon technologies are therefore an important direction to pursue, which is already made possible by scientific and technical development, especially in view of the progressive and inexorable shortage of fossil fuels, which should be taken care of from now on.
the road transport sector is the second largest emitter of greenhouse gases in the european union and its emissions are continuing to increase.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the emissions of co2 from road transport.
the greenhouse gas reduction objective will be better achieved if there is community-wide legislation rather than national legislation with different objectives.
i therefore agree with the target of 147 g co2/km emissions for new light commercial vehicles registered in the union and provided that the feasibility of this option is confirmed.
i would stress the importance of children's rights, gender equality, the fight against violence against women, environmental cooperation, particularly in relation to climate change, cultural cooperation, cooperation in the fight against drugs and money laundering, as well as cooperation in health and, in particular, the fight against aids.
the relationship between cooperation and development should cover strategies for poverty reduction, improvement of living and working conditions and job creation; the participation of migrants in the development of their country of origin; cooperation to strengthen capacity, in particular in the health and education sectors, in order to offset the negative impact of brain drain on sustainable development in south africa.
these eea financial resources will be made available to the 12 newest member states, as well as to greece, portugal and spain, and can be used in a wide range of areas, including environmental protection, social and human development and the safeguarding of cultural heritage.
it should be noted that these eea financial resources should be channelled to finance, as a matter of priority, environmental protection, climate change and renewable energy, civil society, human and social development and the safeguarding of cultural heritage.
norway's financial resources will be channelled into the priority sectors of carbon capture and storage, eco-industrial innovation, research and scholarship, human and social development, justice and home affairs, and the promotion of decent work and tripartite dialogue.
as regards the agreements on financial mechanisms, they have led to a significant increase in the contribution of the eea efta states compared to the period 2004-09, with an overall package of eur 1800 million being made available to the 12 newest member states, as well as greece, portugal and spain, to finance priority important sectors, including environmental protection, climate change, renewable energy, human and social development and the safeguarding of cultural heritage.
after some difficulties in transposing the directive due to doubts in some member states, the guidelines for this procedure, which are designed to simplify coordination between member states in the areas of consumer protection, environmental protection, safety and public health, will finally be put into practice in all member states, and this report will contribute to an even more effective implementation and better operability of the measures presented.
i therefore welcome this step by the european union which i am sure will increase the number of passengers travelling by bus because of the sense of safety and comfort it brings, which will contribute significantly to reducing co2 emissions.
− given that the average reduction in co2 emissions for light commercial vehicles in the period 2002-2007 was only 0.4-0.5% per year and that community targets for new light commercial vehicles are necessary to avoid fragmentation in the internal market, i am voting in favour of this proposal.
− the sustainable development strategy focuses on the most pressing sustainable development issues, such as transport, climate change, public health and energy conservation.
the road transport sector is the second largest emitter of greenhouse gases in the union and its emissions, including those from light commercial vehicles, continue to increase.
if emissions from this sector continue to increase, this increase will significantly undermine efforts by other sectors to combat climate change.
- i voted in favour of the report on emission performance standards for new light commercial vehicles, which follows the community strategy to reduce emissions from light vehicles.
− at a time when the debate on co2 emissions has become inevitable, and is at the heart of the climate change debate, it is important that solutions are found to the necessary reduction of emissions from light commercial vehicles.
− the road transport sector is the second largest emitter of greenhouse gases in the european union and its emissions are continuing to increase.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the emissions of co2 from road transport.
the greenhouse gas reduction target will be more easily achieved if there is community-wide legislation rather than national legislation with different objectives.
i therefore agree with the target of 147 g co2/km emissions for new light commercial vehicles registered in the union, and provided that the feasibility of this option is confirmed.
− we are in favour of the development and application of technologies that reduce the consumption of fossil fuels and, consequently, the levels of emissions of gases into the atmosphere from the combustion of these fuels.
for reasons of environmental quality, public health and welfare, and for reasons connected with the progressive and inexorable shortage of fossil fuel reserves worldwide, which requires great wisdom and thrift in their management.
this is also inseparable from the need to invest in means of transport which do not depend on this form of energy, such as rail transport, and which must be developed.
the discussion of this dossier has shown that there are various possibilities for limiting vehicle emissions, with inherent investment costs and also different application horizons, which should be carefully evaluated; these different possibilities include the introduction of speed limiters in vehicles, which in addition to reducing emissions can also have positive implications for road safety.
- two years ago, legislation was passed on passenger car emissions.
in addition to contributing to better air quality and to the achievement of eu climate objectives, vehicles should provide greater energy savings for the small businesses that depend on them.
- i voted in favour of this report on new legislation to set emission performance standards for new light commercial vehicles as part of the community's integrated approach to reducing co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles.
i agree with the rapporteur when he stresses the need for the light commercial vehicle sector to follow the example of the passenger car sector which is striving to reduce co2 emissions.
− the conclusion of the sustainable development strategy, initiated by the commission, emphasises the most urgent problems of sustainable development, in particular energy efficiency measures in transport.
with a view to combating climate change in terms of co2 emissions and increasing the competitiveness of the european automotive industry, this regulation aims to establish incentive schemes, in particular the granting of supercredits and compensation for eco-innovations, as well as fewer criminal penalties.
i believe that the adoption of this regulation is part of the european union's environmental sustainability policies and, at the same time, protects producers, mostly small and mediumsized enterprises, users and promotes innovation in the sector.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
after the chernobyl disaster (1986), the question of radioactive contamination of the environment gained importance and justified the adoption of three regulations between 1987 and 1990 defining the maximum levels of contamination tolerated in the event of a radiological emergency or a nuclear accident, since these effects are prolonged in time and often indirect (forest contamination).
- the present report concerns a legislative proposal which consists essentially of a codification of the unchanged provisions of three regulations adopted between 1987 and 1990 following the chernobyl disaster (1986), at which time the question of radioactive contamination of the environment gained importance.
we also see that there is a possible, putative, change in the world bank's energy strategy by mid-2011, but we also know that it is in the energy sectors that we can fight poverty in a very concrete way and help lift people out of poverty.
we therefore call on the world bank to adopt a development approach that can maximise the benefits for the poor while at the same time combating climate change.
we have also said that fossil fuel lending continues to play a predominant role in the world bank's overall energy portfolio and that we must abandon this predominance.
finally, we have a number of statements, particularly on the need for the world bank to give priority to access to local energy on a small scale.
and many, many others, in view of climate change.
and why is the world bank still in charge of the world's energy strategy?
when will we decide that the world energy strategy will be the subject of global coordination based on the united nations?
while approving the measures proposed in this resolution, i draw the commission's attention to moving forward with a more ambitious 'small business act' for the programming period after 2013. i would remind you that in the current economic climate, strong institutional and financial support for smes is more important than ever, since they are the backbone of the european economy and can only grow with adequate and sustainable financing tools.
- this resolution is very contradictory in that, while it has some positive references to necessary measures to support smes, it covers and insists on the same kind of policies that are at the root of the problems affecting smes, namely the stability pact, financial market liberalisation and so-called free competition, which only serve to protect economic and financial groups that charge high prices in order to obtain ever-increasing profits, either in the granting of credit or in the cost of energy and other raw materials.
i would also point out that a decent and sustainable pension system can only be achieved by tackling the precarious economy, low pay and low quality jobs.
− the issue of the sustainability of social security systems has been an inescapable topic on the european political agenda.
in the light of the current situation, decisions are needed to ensure the sustainability of social security schemes.
i support this report because it advocates the need to build together a sustainable, secure system that provides adequate pensions at member state level.
the 75% employment rate target set in the eu 2020 strategy should help ensure the sustainability of pension schemes as it is linked to higher levels of employment, higher productivity and economic growth the holistic approach adopted in the green paper aims to give new impetus, both at national and eu level, to the establishment of sound, long-term adequate, sustainable and secure pension systems.
smes are one of the main sources of employment and growth in the eu and make a significant contribution to the sustainability and adequacy of member states' pension systems.
this strategy must take account of the current economic and demographic situation, but also of the completion of the single market, since we must not forget that free movement in europe is a fundamental right of european citizens, which implies mobility of people and in particular of workers who should be able to benefit from an operational and effective labour market and from the guarantee that they will have access to a sustainable, secure and adequate income after retirement.
− i voted in favour of this report because it advocates the need for the eu and the member states to coordinate their different pension policies more appropriately and to ensure adequate, secure and sustainable pension schemes for women and men.
indeed, the imminent reversal of the age pyramid following demographic changes resulting from a longer life expectancy of the population is calling into question the financial sustainability of pension schemes.
i therefore fully agree with the conclusions of this report and welcome initiatives aimed at achieving intergenerational solidarity that will enable all pensioners to have a sustainable and dignified income.
in the face of the new reality, initiatives are needed to redefine the future of young and old, as well as solidarity between generations and individuals, thus contributing to a sustainable, secure and adequate income after retirement.
− this report on adequate, sustainable and secure european pension schemes represents an important step in the implementation of a policy of coordination at european union level.
there is a need to create initiatives that redefine the future of young and old, as well as solidarity between generations and people, thus contributing to a sustainable, secure and adequate income after retirement.
in this way, we can build together a sustainable, safe, modern system which recognises the freedom of movement in europe, which is part of the premise that mobility is indispensable, especially for the younger generations and, of course, for an operational and effective labour market.
food shortages have a number of causes: wrong land-use planning policies and support for agriculture, for example, but also climate change.
and also because of food security, the fight against climate change must be a priority for the eu.
and in addition to eliminating tariff and non-tariff barriers, the treaty also covers the opening up of the public procurement market, guarantees intellectual property rights and protects labour rights and environmental standards.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the eib can invest in projects that are essential for the eu, such as the fight against climate change, the development of social, economic and environmental infrastructure, and the development of the local business sector.
this decision further extends the eib's mandate in terms of its competencies, introducing new elements aimed at directing eib activities towards investment in projects contributing to the fight against climate change, the development of social, economic and environmental infrastructure, and also the development of the local private sector, in particular smes.
i agree with this proposal because it reflects better coordination between the eu and the eib, contributes to the fight against poverty eradication, stimulates small and mediumsized enterprises as well as local communities, introduces more transparency, encourages better bank practices, increases funding for projects that combat climate change and makes ineligible countries that neglect environmental issues.
in this way, the eib contributes to the general guiding principles and policy objectives of the european union, including the development of third countries and the prosperity of the union in the new global economic environment.
this proposal reflects better coordination between the eu and the eib, contributes to the fight against poverty eradication, stimulates smes as well as local communities, introduces more transparency, encourages better bank practices, increases funding for projects that combat climate change and disqualifies countries that neglect environmental issues.
the eib should improve its reporting to the ep on all aspects of its external mandate, from its overall policy to its practical implementation, including the assessment of social, environmental and human rights criteria.
the ceiling for the eib under this guarantee is eur 27.8 billion for the remainder of the current period, 2007-13. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'climate change' in the definition of the term 'climate change'.
for services, in particular financial and legal services, telecommunications, environmental and maritime transport, the estimated increase in transaction volumes is 70%.
as the first of a series of trade agreements to be established following the lisbon treaty first exercise of co-decision powers , it represents an important innovation in terms of bilateral compliance with labour standards as defined by the international labour organisation (ilo), compliance with legislation on public procurement, transparency of state aid and the implementation of sustainable development.
but the agreement also extends to agricultural products, promoting intensive production models which are unsustainable for the environment and which are contrary to local production and consumption, which are necessary to safeguard food sovereignty and food security.
it would be important to do the same in terms of the number of jobs destroyed - which the rapporteur assumes is inevitable - , small and mediumsized enterprises brought to ruin or, furthermore, in terms of the tonnes of co2 emitted by the increased flows of energy and goods that these agreements imply.
it is curious to see where the eu's much-hyped environmental/climate commitments stand on these occasions...
in writing.
as a first step towards a new generation of bilateral free trade agreements, this agreement incorporates important innovations, such as a chapter on sustainable development, which obliges both parties to respect core ilo labour standards and which creates a peer review system to address complaints of non-compliance, as well as several working groups and monitoring committees with the aim of ensuring quality and reconciliation.
i particularly welcome the adoption of the strategy for the danube region and support the accompanying action plan, which meets the need to improve mobility, energy security, environmental protection, social and economic development, cultural exchanges, security and civil protection in the danube region.
like this regional strategy, i also call for the creation of the euro-african atlantic area, which would allow for a deepening of relations between the south-west european coast, the overseas territories and the neighbouring acp countries, thus improving cooperation in matters such as transport, energy security, scientific exchange, tourism development, security and the fight against illegal immigration.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on the implementation of the eu strategy for the danube region because it responds to the need to improve mobility, energy security, environmental protection, social and economic development, cultural exchanges, security and civil protection in the region.
in its vicinity, and through the interdependence which it is intended to intensify, mobility, energy security, environmental protection, social and economic development, cultural exchanges, security and civil protection can be improved.
given the geo-strategic importance of this region in various sectors such as tourism, transport, environment, energy, good neighbourly policy, territorial cohesion, etc., parliament has been a key partner in the definition of this strategy and should continue to be so throughout its implementation.
i therefore welcome the adoption of this motion for a resolution, aware that it is a vehicle for sustainable development for a region crossed by the largest river in the european union, where some 160 million people live, and whose environmental and heritage resources have earned unesco the classification of world heritage.
the effectiveness of regional policies is reflected in supporting development and implementing strategies that address a range of local problems and stimulate economic growth in countries whose populations are linked to the river, so as to promote sustainable development.
the strategy, which is based on three interlinked objectives (socio-economic development, improvement of transport and support for energy possibilities and environmental protection) and the accompanying action plan, will therefore help to promote this region and minimise existing regional differences by better coordinating the efforts of the eight member states in the region.
i cannot but welcome the adoption of the danube region strategy by the european commission and support the accompanying action plan, which is based on four pillars (namely connecting the danube region, protecting the environment, creating prosperity and strengthening the danube region), meeting the need to improve mobility, energy security, environmental protection, social and economic development, cultural exchanges, security and civil protection in the danube region.
it is a very heterogeneous region, with high mobility and strong interconnectivity, and has proved to be the right terrain for strengthening synergies between various policies, such as cohesion policy, transport policy, economic, energy, environmental policy, and also enlargement and neighbourhood policy itself.
it is a rich region with strong economic capacities, but it requires coordinated efforts to develop a coherent, integrated and sustainable plan.
- i approve this resolution as it deals with issues relating to the stability of the legislative regulatory framework for the business environment, the cases of mikhail khodorkovsky and platon lebedev, the way in which the russian authorities are fighting terrorism, particularly in the north caucasus, and the human rights situation.
- russia is an important partner of the european union and should contribute to the creation of sustainable cooperation based on democracy and the rule of law.
we must strengthen our commitment to working with russia to meet common challenges in key areas such as the fight against terrorism, energy policy and global economic governance.
the european council welcomes the commission's proposal to establish a european energy charter for the period 2000-2006. i agree that the energy strategy should address and facilitate the transition to an environmentally sustainable energy development pathway and that the world bank should adopt a private sector development approach that maximises the benefits for the poor while also tackling climate change.
i call on the world bank to reorient its current strategy towards a large-scale export-oriented energy model, towards decentralised and small-scale energy projects that more clearly respond to the basic needs of rural areas.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on the world bank energy strategy because i believe that it should support the transition to an environmentally sustainable energy development pathway in the least developed countries, while contributing to the eu's objectives in the fight against climate change and poverty.
it is therefore essential that the world bank adopts a new strategy for financing energy projects, focusing on the provision of efficient, affordable and clean energy as a way to reduce poverty and promote economic growth.
in this context, and as the world bank finalizes its energy strategy, taking into account that it has in the past committed to making half of its investments in low-carbon energy, parliament called for priority to be given to clean energy projects, and in particular a clear focus on renewable energy, as a way of promoting sustainable development in the most disadvantaged regions.
the european parliament resolution on the world bank's energy strategy for developing countries.
at a time when the world bank is finalising a new energy strategy, a detailed approach is relevant.
we continue to rely too heavily on fossil fuels rather than exploring alternative energy sources.
we are accelerating climate change and hurting people who live in extreme poverty.
i therefore believe that the world bank should review its policy of supporting the exploitation of energy from fossil fuels by making support for this sector more transparent and by encouraging green energy in order to reduce not only environmental pollution but above all the external energy dependence of developing countries.
− there is no doubt that access to modern energy services is a prerequisite for poverty eradication and economic development, and that this requires energy services to be reliable, affordable - especially for the poor - and distributed in a balanced way, so that the gap between urban and rural areas can be bridged.
in the 21st century, some 1.5 billion people still lack access to electricity, with 4 out of 5 living in sub-saharan africa and south asia, mostly in rural areas, and almost 2.4 billion people still using traditional biofuels for cooking and heating, causing serious health problems and 1.9 billion deaths a year from indoor pollution, as well as ecological damage from unsustainable use of natural resources.
the world bank should therefore give priority to local and small-scale access to energy, particularly in the least developed countries of africa and asia.
- i support the concerns and suggestions expressed by the european parliament in this resolution, which i voted in favour of, on the world bank's energy strategy.
given that access to modern energy services is a prerequisite for poverty eradication and economic development, and that the right to energy implies that energy services are reliable, affordable and distributed in a balanced way so as to bridge the gap between urban and rural areas, it seems to me essential that an investment policy based on the sustainable use of natural resources be promoted.
the aim is to transform europe into a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy, delivering high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion.
i would particularly stress the 'innovation union' initiative, which addresses the major societal challenges in terms of energy and food security, climate change, health and ageing populations.
i call for more funding for the key research, innovation and deployment instruments already approved, such as the strategic energy technologies plan (set plan).
in order to put an end to this situation, the european council adopted on 17 june 2010 the europe 2020 strategy for jobs and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
i welcome the selection of flagship initiatives focusing on education, employment, youth, innovation, the digital agenda, the environment, globalisation, resource use and tackling exclusion, which will boost europe 2020's growth and competitiveness.
− the europe 2020 strategy aims to lead europe to recover from the crisis and emerge stronger from it by creating jobs and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, building on the eu's five major objectives, namely promoting employment, improving the conditions for innovation, research and development, meeting climate change and energy objectives, improving education levels and promoting social inclusion, in particular through poverty reduction.
− the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth sets out a series of measures to help europe recover from the crisis and emerge stronger from it, by creating jobs and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, based on the eu's five main objectives: promoting employment, improving the conditions for innovation, research and development, meeting climate change and energy targets, improving education levels and promoting social inclusion, in particular through poverty reduction.
− the eu 2020 strategy sets out the european union's goals for the coming years for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
a particular role should be given to smes, the driving force behind the development of the european economy, through incentives for an environment of economic growth and job creation within this programme.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the fight against unemployment and the creation of sustainable jobs is the eu's great challenge for the next 10 years, and we must all be involved in it if this is to be a success story.
the fight against unemployment and the creation of sustainable jobs is the eu's great challenge for the next 10 years, and we must all be involved in it if this is to be a success story.
i therefore advocate a strong and sustainable agricultural sector in the eu where the countryside is prosperous and sustainable.
in addition, european farmers have to meet the world's most stringent standards for food safety, the environment, animal welfare and labour.
at the global level, we must ensure that all available means are put in place to combat climate change, so that it does not diminish natural resources and agricultural production incomes.
the good ecological status of this important sea basin is the main objective of the gfcm, and the promotion and sustainable development of this basin presupposes a range of measures for the conservation and management of marine biological resources, which are the gfcm's aim and which should govern fishing in this region.
for 15 years, these agreements have included explicit objectives in the field of cooperation for the sustainable development of the fisheries sector in mauritania.
mr president, fisheries agreements with third countries must strike the right balance between economic interests and the promotion of sustainable fisheries.
the key, however, is to promote sustainable fishing by combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and ensuring that the community market is supplied with quality fish.
it is not enough, then, for community fishing vessels to adopt practices which respect the environment and the codes of conduct established by the fao.
in this connection, it is urgent to ensure that mauritania requires third countries, with which it also has partnership agreements, to respect the same rules as those applied to community-flagged vessels; otherwise our shipowners will be placed in an unfair competitive disadvantage and the objectives of conservation and sustainable management of fisheries resources will be seriously compromised.
it has a fragile environment, increasingly weakened by climate change, and a dynamic maritime activity, resulting from the importance of shipping, but also from fishing and energy-related activities.
a strategy for the atlantic region involving member states and their regions should also prioritise new areas of innovation in the economy and science, with a focus on new products and services linked to the environment and renewable and ocean energy, marine biotechnology related to food, health or smart high-tech products and services.
its geostrategic position on the border between europe, africa and america creates challenges and opportunities for various levels of maritime activities, such as the protection and safeguarding of ecosystems, maritime safety, the study of climate change, food and energy security and supply, etc.
in this context, i believe that, under the european union's atlantic strategy, research, development and technological innovation measures should be implemented to ensure the sustainable exploitation and management of these resources, and that it is necessary to set up a european deep sea observatory in a privileged area such as the azores.
the additional resources from this measure should help to fight poverty, promote job creation, finance the welfare state, achieve climate and environmental objectives and finance others stemming from the europe 2020 strategy.
among the new means of financing are taxation of the financial sector and co2 emissions.
on the other hand, a tax on co2 emissions will make the polluter-pays principle fairer and more consistent, contributing not only to reducing climate change but also to financing investment projects in this area.
new instruments are needed to respond to the crisis, which can stop speculation and restore the role of the financial sector, ensure fair burden sharing and create new additional resources to address global challenges such as climate change, the development goals and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth under the eu2020 strategy.
the document explores the following innovative financing possibilities: taxation of the financial sector, eurobonds and taxation of the energy sector.
only in this way will it be possible to create a fairer, more equitable and sustainable tax system, to combat tax evasion and, consequently, to promote a better international tax environment.
− the existence of efficient, transparent and equitable tax systems is crucial for the development of the developing countries as it contributes to the financing of their public assets, the sustainability of their institutions, the reduction of dependence on external aid and the achievement of the millennium development goals.
stresses the importance of supporting effective and sustainable tax systems, including by combating tax fraud and evasion, in order to contribute to a transparent and fair international tax environment, including in helping to combat tax havens.
the new eu investment policy in developing countries should contribute to the establishment of a more favourable environment for domestic and foreign private investment and to the creation of conditions for more effective international assistance.
- i voted in favour of the report on 'agriculture and international trade' because it stresses the importance of integrating non-trade aspects into the development of the doha agenda, such as social, environmental, human health and animal health and welfare considerations, in order to achieve the highest environmental and social standards and to avoid a decline in the competitiveness of eu farmers in the context of world agricultural production.
- agriculture has social functions which go beyond the mere limits of food production, such as the settlement and planning of the territory, the protection of the environment and the preservation of the cultural traditions of the peoples.
despite the constant changes to the common agricultural policy (cap) - seen as a symbol of european integration - the sector remains in a highly precarious situation, having to comply with stringent standards of environmental protection and product safety - aggravated by the current financial crisis.
this is a sector which is intersecting with other areas such as trade, the environment, industry, transport, etc., which make it very difficult to adopt a regulatory framework which satisfies all the parties involved.
on the other hand, the agricultural sector has to meet the food needs of an increasing number of people, despite facing increasingly limited natural resources and high prices of production factors, as well as environmental and resource conservation concerns, especially in developed economies, which can lead to distortions of competition.
in addition, it should be borne in mind that the european agricultural sector is obliged to respect the highest standards in terms of quality, product hygiene, sustainable production methods, plant and animal health and welfare, traceability, pesticide residue control, veterinary medicine and additives - all of which are cost-intensive aspects of production and which should be taken into account in multilateral and bilateral negotiations.
i would also like to mention the importance of a decentralised approach to research programmes which takes account of local farmers' knowledge and sustainable farming systems.
this must necessarily involve greater investment in this crop, which, in addition to reducing imports, improves agriculture's contribution to environmental protection, since protein crops can substantially reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
recent climate change has put this issue on the agenda and made it an important element in the cap reform that is expected soon.
the cultivation of protein crops, combined with a large rotation of other crops, brings great benefits, not only in environmental terms, but also in terms of cost reduction, as it enriches the soils with respect to nitrogen.
− it is essential to increase the production of protein-rich plants in order to reduce dependence on imported soya, maintain food security and benefit the environment.
scientific studies are available demonstrating the environmental benefits of protein crops in terms of greenhouse gas emissions, as well as improvement of biodiversity and soil quality.
if europe is to achieve the objectives of sustainable growth, employment, competitiveness and social cohesion, it will have to continue to combat the still existing inequalities between men and women, which is why i supported this report.
this report highlights the causes and consequences of female poverty and the importance of achieving gender equality for sustainable growth, employment, competitiveness and social cohesion.
industrial production is fundamental to sustainable growth and employment in europe, which requires another community and external trade policy to defend our industries, including those which guarantee jobs in countries and regions where unemployment is already very high.
we stand for resource-efficient industries that are less carbon-dependent, that value employment with rights, that guarantee equal rights for women in access to work, career advancement, salaries and participation in management and boardrooms.
an integrated and sustainable industrial policy should be based on scientific research, innovation, increased resource efficiency, a strategy for raw materials, the efforts of smes and the development of regional networks.
in particular, it is essential that energy efficiency and the introduction of information and communication technologies in industrial sectors form the basis of this new industrial revolution in order to increase competitiveness, economic growth and employment.
fossil fuels now provide the vast majority of primary energy needs worldwide.
but whatever alternatives are found for energy provision, it is almost certain that overall energy consumption will have to decline from present levels and there is not necessarily much harm in that.
the report advocates: high quality of legislative work, cost reduction, reduction of environmental impact, zero base increase, i.e.
i would also stress that proposals should be made to reduce the consumption of paper, energy, water and emissions in the organisational culture of parliament and the other institutions.
a strategy for the atlantic region, involving member states and regions, should also give priority to new areas of innovation, in economics and science, with emphasis on new products and services linked to the environment and ocean renewable energies, marine biotechnology related to food, health or smart high-tech products and services.
this strategy aims to address issues of relevant importance such as marine energy, environment and climate change, transport and access, security and surveillance, research, innovation, creative industries, culture, leisure and tourism, services, maritime training, fisheries and fishery products.
an integrated and articulated strategy should be developed to ensure synergy and coherence between sectoral policies in this area, creating the added value needed to meet the challenges to sustainable development and competitiveness in particular of this region and of europe in general.
it is important not only to improve the competitiveness and sustainability of traditional sectors, but also to exploit the full potential of the atlantic area, with new markets, products and services, guided by two major priorities: the protection of the environment and ecosystems, and the creation of jobs.
this strategy should address issues of common interest such as the environment and climate change, marine energy, maritime transport, maritime safety and surveillance, fisheries, tourism, research and innovation.
− the european council of 14 june 2010 asked the commission to draw up a european strategy for the atlantic region within one year, as it is a peripheral territory with specific characteristics both in terms of its potential and its environmental vulnerabilities.
this resolution represents a key contribution to the elaboration of the strategy, as it draws attention to fundamental aspects such as the need to seek synergies with other policies (environment, energy, transport, tourism, marine resources, etc.
i welcome the adoption of this european parliament resolution, as i am convinced that this eu strategy for the atlantic region will accelerate the sustainable growth of this territory and put maritime issues at the top of european affairs.
these strategies can and should address issues of common interest, such as, in the case of this specific proposal for a european strategy for the atlantic region: marine energy, environmental protection, including the prevention and control of marine pollution, transport and access, research and innovation, among others.
in this case, it is the european strategy for the atlantic region: marine energy, environmental protection, including the prevention and control of marine pollution, transport and access, research and innovation, among others.
the atlantic region has very specific and distinctive characteristics as it is a dynamic maritime area, with maritime transport, fisheries and marine energy being the most important.
it is a space with a fragile environment, which must be preserved, and which is subject to coastal erosion and extreme weather phenomena and is a peripheral space.
- i voted in favour of this resolution because, as portugal is an atlantic country with a dynamic maritime area and great potential, but with a fragile environment which needs to be preserved, i cannot but consider it positive that the eu recognises the potential of its atlantic region and that many of the problems of this vast area must be addressed at european level, through an integrated eu strategy for the region, in the perspective of a policy of territorial cohesion, which should be a key feature of community options, but which has been so absent from union decisions, so sacrificed by unacceptable budgetary constraints motivated by non-development-friendly austerity policy options.
the resolution calls on the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the threat of nuclear proliferation, and calls on the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the threat of nuclear proliferation.
this is a process promoted by the great powers - and not without contradictions - with the aim of integrating this great country into the single market of the european union, controlling its economy and using its geostrategic position in relation to the middle east, the caucasus and central asia, particularly for access to and control of the energy sources and markets of these regions.
the resolution is also illuminating on this issue, urging turkey to support and actively contribute to the implementation of eu actions and policies in the region, particularly in the field of energy, highlighting its constructive commitment to nato operations in afghanistan and the balkans, and the renewal of its close relations with israel.
it is important to involve the community itself in the integration process, in order to ensure sustainable development from the inside out, encouraging the desire for a positive life in society rather than imposition.
the roma population shows a high demographic dynamism, unlike other ethnic groups, and in some countries, such as hungary, it is expected to represent more than 50% of the economically active population by 2050. their integration is thus not only an ethical imperative (a human rights issue) but also a key to the sustainability of social security systems, proving not a cost but a necessary and financially viable investment in the long term.
an integrated and sustainable industrial policy should be based on scientific research, innovation, increased resource efficiency, a strategy for raw materials, the strengthening of smes and the development of regional networks.
in particular, it is essential that energy efficiency and the introduction of information and communication technologies in industrial sectors form the basis of the industrial revolution in order to increase competitiveness, economic growth and employment.
- when europe is experiencing an unprecedented crisis, which is budgetary but not only, we cannot forget the preponderant role of industry, which represents 37% of european gdp, and the challenges it faces in a globalised world, in which emerging economies - but also the united states - are betting on aggressive industrial policies based on massive investments in r & d and in key sectors, competing with europe with the advantage of not having the same environmental, social and labour constraints.
but it also presents us with challenges: how do we ensure the sustainability of resources in the face of climate change?
to promote a modern industry (efficient, reducing energy costs and producing environmentally responsible co2) and competitive (based on research, innovation and recycling of raw materials).
the existence of modern, efficient, job-creating and environmentally sustainable industries is an important instrument for the development of each country and region.
we want industries that are resource-efficient, that are less carbon dependent, that value employment with rights, that guarantee women's equal rights in access to work, career advancement, salaries and participation in management and management bodies.
− the recent economic and financial crisis has highlighted the importance of industry to the eu economy, and it is therefore important to recognise the need for an integrated approach to industrial policy that combines competitiveness, innovation and sustainability and is capable of simultaneously stimulating growth, creating jobs and ensuring environmental preservation.
in addition, new dynamics, climate and demographic changes and the process of urbanization/depopulation are added.
since then, several disasters have struck europe with profound negative consequences for the people, the territory, the economy and the environment.
if there is one area where the solidarity of the european union and the principle of cohesion should have visible expression, it is in the protection of people, the economy and the environment in the face of disasters.
we have worked with the european environment agency on a report assessing the frequency of disasters in europe and their impact on humans, the economies and ecosystems.
we don't know where it's going to happen, but we know it's going to happen, and climate change is there to prove it.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union.
i also agree with the invitation to the commission to present the legislative initiatives that may prove necessary to strengthen financial stability and sustainable economic growth.
the debt crisis facing europe requires exceptional measures and the maturity needed to find in our institutional structure the way to mechanisms that will give the euro the necessary stability and robustness, firmly anchored in budgetary discipline, coordination of macroeconomic policies and the existence of sustainable growth policies.
i hope that the strengthening of the jcp, the european semester, the europe 2020 strategy and the amendment of article 136 tfeu on a stability mechanism will lead to sustainable economic growth.
i voted in favour of the creation of this mechanism in the hope that it will make a valuable contribution to bringing greater stability to financial markets and to sustainable economic growth.
it is bad for the country, it is unfair to the citizens and it is yet another blow to the sustainability of the great project that is the single currency.
but there is also a need to engage in a broad debate in society on the energy question, on present and future needs and how they should be met, addressing in a lucid, informed way the risks, impacts, potentials and limitations of the various energy sources.
we are being told that the model of economic coordination being imposed is based on fines and sanctions and that it is no guarantee, quite the contrary, of sustainable growth and job creation.
at a time when inequalities between member states are widening, the community budget must be at the service of real convergence, it must promote the full exploitation of the endogenous potential of each country, the creation of jobs with rights, the eradication of poverty and social exclusion, and the preservation of the environment.
we therefore propose a new european strategy for solidarity and sustainable development, backed up by a set of new economic, social and environmental policies, supported by the community budget, as we have made clear in the set of amendments we have proposed to this report.
it is also beneficial in view of the fact that a convergence regulation can promote free competition, particularly with regard to state subsidies and social and environmental parameters.
- i welcome the fact that the european union and the united states have declared their intention to work together to reduce the impact of international aviation on the environment.
i welcome the initiatives to reduce noise, reduce the impact of aviation on air quality and the global climate, foster the development of environmental aviation technology, and innovate in air traffic management and the sustainable development of alternative aviation fuels.
− although the single transatlantic market in air transport has not yet been achieved, the amendment to the air transport agreement between the united states and the european union and its member states contains important improvements over its previous version, in particular in terms of the environment and safety.
these promises are now being supplemented by propaganda on the subject of 'environmental cooperation', a subject which can and must certainly be dealt with, but not in this context.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
finally, it should also be stressed that issues such as further liberalisation of traffic rights, increased opportunities for foreign investment and the effect of environmental measures on traffic rights should be taken into account in a future phase of negotiations.
- i welcome this report, firstly because it is a substantial improvement on the current bilateral agreements between the member states and canada, which are themselves quite restrictive, and secondly because of the significant improvement it provides in terms of services, air links between the two markets and the consequent economic, environmental, safety, passenger transport, competition and legal benefits, among others.
however, with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty on 1 december 2009, which obliges the european parliament to give its consent to air services agreements, the commission has started a negotiation process which is now coming to an end, establishing a set of traffic rights and investment possibilities, as well as cooperation in several areas: safety, protection of consumer rights, environment, air traffic management, social rights and fair competition.
it is a very ambitious agreement, providing for the gradual establishment of traffic rights and investment opportunities, as well as for broad cooperation in a number of areas, including safety, social issues, consumer protection, the environment, air traffic management, state aid and competition.
the agreement provides for the gradual establishment of traffic rights and investment opportunities, as well as for broad cooperation in a number of areas, including safety, social issues, consumer protection, the environment, air traffic management, state aid and competition.
- i am voting in favour of this report, as it is necessary to conclude the negotiations on trade with this region and i believe that there is a positive development in including in this document sectors such as energy, industry and raw materials and, above all, research, innovation and education.
i agree with the text's forecasts for relations between the european union and the arab countries of the gulf region, particularly with regard to the strategic agreements in the fields of energy, science and education.
the potential for cooperation extends, however, to other areas such as education, energy and scientific research.
however, it is important to keep the focus: on linking the objectives of agenda 2020 to a line of 'responsibility and sustainability' (and not mere 'austerity' as the council suggests) or to the new needs arising from the lisbon treaty, without prejudicing appropriations for existing programmes that are successful.
employment, innovation, research and development, climate change and energy, training and social inclusion are the five objectives that should guide the preparation of the eu budget for 2012. europe will thus experience smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
it also aims to highlight the impact and importance that the 2012 budget can have in meeting the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy for growth and sustainable job creation across the european union.
however, i hope that the 2012 budget will contribute to sustainable growth in the eu, enhance competitiveness, and promote employment.
it shall promote economic growth, the creation of jobs with rights, the promotion of social progress and well-being, the eradication of poverty and social exclusion and the preservation of the environment.
employment, innovation, research and development, climate change and energy, training and social inclusion are the five objectives to be focused on when drawing up the eu budget for 2012. the europe 2020 strategy, based on these five objectives, should help europe recover from the crisis and emerge stronger from it through 'smart, sustainable and inclusive growth'.
whereas the europe 2020 strategy should help europe recover from the crisis and emerge stronger through smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, based on the eu's five key objectives - namely promoting employment, improving conditions and public spending for innovation, research and development, achieving our climate change and energy goals, improving education levels and promoting social inclusion, including through poverty reduction - i agree with the recommendations in this report to fully achieve these five objectives.
if, on the one hand, legal labour migration, especially skilled labour, helps to combat illegal work and can help the competitiveness of the economy and overcome existing shortcomings, on the other hand we must not forget that, in a period of crisis and economic vulnerability, when unemployment is increasing, labour migration policy must be flexible, as the commission advocates, but it must also be sustainable and reasonable.
i call for the urgent need for a serious discussion on the need for safe nuclear energy in europe and on the fact that europe needs this source of energy.
the problems that have arisen with the fukushima nuclear power plant have once again put the energy debate on the agenda.
in fact, 30% of the energy consumed in the european union is nuclear, with countries producing around 80% of it, such as france, and countries without nuclear power stations, such as portugal and austria.
the european parliament has debated this issue on several occasions, concluding that the eu and the member states should encourage and support the production of so-called 'green energy', including on environmental issues.
i therefore wholeheartedly support this resolution which seeks, on the one hand, to draw up a safety check plan for all european nuclear power stations and, on the other hand, to increase significantly the production of energy from renewable sources so that it becomes the main source of energy in the european union.
the need for energy efficiency and the achievement of the eu 2020 20/20/20 targets should also be emphasised.
the need to initiate a broad debate in society on the energy question, on present and future needs and how these needs should be met, addressing in a clear and informed way the risks, impacts, potentials and limitations of each of the various forms of energy.
but it is unacceptable that they, the victims, should have to leave home, take their children away from their family environment and leave the perpetrators at home.
the priority is therefore to ensure support for women victims of violence and this report has a set of initiatives to this end: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
the promotion of human rights, democracy and sustainable development must therefore become the real strategic priority in the european union's foreign policy and development programmes for the mediterranean and beyond.
the age of many of the reactors in operation is relatively high, which makes it urgent to dismantle some of these reactors for reasons of safety and defence and to safeguard the health of the population and the environment.
those processes should not neglect the necessary maintenance and monitoring after closure, waste treatment, storage and decontamination, environmental requalification of installations and support for the replacement of the energy capacity of decommissioned power plants, with particular attention to environmental sustainability and energy efficiency.
political, social and economic instability, insecurity and political repression, but also climate change, are pushing communities to migrate, and the eu needs to develop a common immigration policy, including, inter alia, the promotion of the economic and social progress of the countries of reception, transit and origin, and the strengthening of social cohesion and integration of migrants.
women have contributed to the advancement of traditional economic models and lifestyles in rural areas, while also contributing to the stabilisation and modernisation of these business models and, consequently, to the sustainable development of rural areas.
in this way, and in line with the objectives of the common agricultural policy for a more sustainable use of rural areas, action should be taken to meet the needs and aspirations of women in these areas.
this report also contributes to the promotion of sustainable economic growth and rural development itself.
this principle should be included in the cap to promote sustainable economic growth and rural development; farms, rural tourism, direct marketing, social services are cornerstones of a rural supply structure and must be supported in a sustainable way through the common agricultural policy.
it is necessary to support and revitalize the rural environment as a diverse and inclusive economic and living space, taking advantage in particular of the key role, expertise and skills of women.
in a context where there is no clear scientific consensus on the effect of dha-enriched formulas on infants (whether from milk powder or other infant foods) in a biological environment other than breast milk, we believe that a precautionary and preventive stance should be adopted.
only in this way can we promote sustainable economic growth and rural development.
this will not be possible without community financial assistance to deal with the consequences of its closure and decommissioning, which naturally includes environmental rehabilitation measures in accordance with the acquis, measures to modernise conventional production capacity to replace production capacity, etc.
i believe that the eu should support the closure of these plants and investment in alternative energy projects in order to ensure the safety and health protection of european citizens, reduce energy dependence and minimise any social costs.
the aim of community assistance is to help these three member states cope with the financial and economic burden of early closure dates and to cover the costs of many major decommissioning activities, to invest in energy projects with the aim of reducing energy dependence and to help mitigate the social impact of nuclear decommissioning.
- we know that the average age of the reactors in operation at nuclear power stations, which exist in about half of the member states of the european union, is relatively high, which puts us before the need to dismantle some of these reactors for reasons of safety and defence and to safeguard the health of the population and the environment.
those processes should not neglect the necessary maintenance and monitoring after closure, waste treatment, storage and decontamination, environmental requalification of installations and support for the replacement of the energy production capacity of decommissioned power plants, with particular attention to environmental sustainability and energy efficiency.
these plants pose a danger to public health and the ecosystem not only of their country of origin but also of the whole of europe and the whole planet.
in view of the serious risks of nuclear energy, which have been known for a long time, and the current nuclear disaster in japan, i call for the immediate establishment of a european plan to abandon this type of energy.
this decision is therefore of great importance not only for the workers and their families, but also for the district of melník, where the unilever plant was located, whose economy is largely dependent on the food processing industry and the chemical and energy industries.
in this sense, the aces are a well-placed instrument to contribute to the eu's external policy objectives, namely poverty alleviation and climate change.
given that these agencies mainly support industrial activities with negative effects on the environment, in particular due to the production of co2, and that, according to the world bank, the effects on poverty reduction are negligible, i agree with the rapporteur's position that the aces should contribute to the achievement of eu policies and objectives, and there is therefore no need to revise the oecd convention.
but the aces are public instruments often used by the eu to help finance its international objectives, notably in relation to climate change and poverty alleviation.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
is it not time for europe to move forward with new european sources of finance and to actually launch growth and cohesion measures based on a different approach to the energy problem and the problem of the sustainability of growth?
the agreements we conclude are based on the values we defend, both in terms of human rights and respect for the sustainability of resources.
the activities under the external dimension of the common fisheries policy are primarily aimed at extending the principles of sustainable and responsible fishing at international level.
in the field of aquaculture, i note the possibility of introducing funding for the collection, management and use of environmental data in addition to the socioeconomic data previously provided, thus promoting environmental and health monitoring and monitoring of this sector, in order to contribute to its sustainability.
this is an essential condition for the sustainable development of the activity.
in this transitional period, it is important to maintain a regulatory framework for fisheries, to safeguard the interests of fishermen, while keeping in mind the fundamental objective of protecting sustainable fisheries.
the current ban on this fishing technique, which for decades has been used by a segment of the portuguese artisanal fleet for the sustainable exploitation of species such as drumsticks and cod, is a severe economic and social blow to the sector and fishing communities most dependent on the exploitation of these resources.
this fleet has over time demonstrated its ability to use the resources concerned, in particular the sole and the fishery, in a sustainable manner.
the common fisheries policy is a set of measures designed by the european union to ensure the sustainability and competitiveness of the european fisheries sector.
the sustainability of the sector and its competitiveness must exist in a balanced way.
for example, in the outermost regions of the union, which make up the european union's largest exclusive economic zone, the fisheries sector plays a key role in the region's economic activity and it is therefore a priority to ensure the sustainability and development of this sector.
the three components - business, citizens and government - must move forward simultaneously to achieve a competitive single market with smart, inclusive and sustainable growth that puts europeans at the heart of that market.
the relevance of the development of e-commerce to enhance consumer and business confidence in this type of commerce, the focus on innovation, which is important for strong and sustainable growth, and social entrepreneurship, which is indispensable for creating entrepreneurial and innovative projects for social inclusion.
the eusf is an important instrument to support the remediation of the impacts - often substantial and in many cases lasting - of disasters on people, the environment and the economy.
the eusf is an important instrument to support the remediation of the impacts - often substantial and in many cases lasting - of disasters on people, the environment and the economy.
i welcome the protocol, as it promotes responsible and sustainable fishing in the territorial waters of the comoros, representing the interests of both parties, as it grants fishing opportunities to eu vessels in return for important sectoral support for the comorian archipelago community.
- i voted in favour of the recommendation on the 'ec-comoros fisheries agreement', as the parties commit themselves to promoting sustainable and responsible fishing in the comoros fishing zone and provides for a suspension clause in the event of human rights violations in the union of the comoros.
the need to create a favourable environment for the development of investments in this sector and to optimise the production of small-scale fisheries has been felt.
− this protocol is intended to replace the protocol annexed to the eu-comoros fisheries partnership agreement, which expired on 31 december 2010. the main objective of the new protocol is to define the fishing opportunities available to eu vessels under access rights and sectoral support and to continue cooperation between the european union and the union of the comoros in order to promote the establishment of a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the comorian fishing zone.
it continues to be the world's most popular tourist destination, accounting for about 40% of global arrivals in 2008. the eu intends to define a new policy framework for tourism with the aim of strengthening this sector so that it can meet the major challenges of climate change, demographic trends, globalisation, etc.
since scientific knowledge is essential for the sustainable development of the sector, the increase in co-financing rates for the collection, management and use of databases is an added value.
i supported this report because it proposes some amendments to the commission proposal which will help to clarify the legislation, taking into account the recent developments in the fisheries sector and its future prospects, in particular: the possibility of increasing community co-financing (from 50% to 60%), which is an added value for the development of the fisheries sector in portugal; the increasing importance attached to aquaculture, which justifies the introduction of the possibility of collecting, managing and using environmental data, in addition to socioeconomic data, also in this field.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
in the field of aquaculture, it will also be possible to finance the collection, management and use of environmental data, promoting environmental and health monitoring and monitoring of the sector in order to contribute to its sustainability.
equally important is aquaculture activity, whose data should reflect not only socioeconomic but also environmental aspects.
- the fisheries sector is fundamental to the european union, not only for food reasons but also for environmental reasons, as aquatic ecosystems are at stake.
− the existence of appropriate technical measures is a necessary instrument for sustainable exploitation and good conservation of fisheries resources.
until january 2013. the european commission will therefore have to use the new extension period to promote an impact assessment of the existing measures, which should be taken into account in the preparation of the new proposal, due to be submitted in the course of 2011, for the period after 1 january 2013. as regards the review of the technical measures provided for in the legislation, it is essential to extend until 31 december 2012 the use of gillnets offshore at depths between 200 and 600 metres, which will allow vessels to continue to catch on a sustainable basis certain resources of high economic importance to the portuguese national fisheries, such as the redfish.
this means that there is no clear scientific consensus on the effect of dha-enriched formulas on infants, as they are used in formula and other infant foods in a biological environment other than breast milk.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
an integrated and coherent policy that promotes high-quality investment and contributes positively to economic progress and sustainable development worldwide is essential.
the cooperation of all european bodies, but particularly of the member states, is essential to create an environment of transparency and rigour in the implementation of european funds.
as the rapporteur says, creating a safe and transparent environment for the operation and financing of european political parties is a profoundly democratic act, and i therefore welcome the initiative to establish a clear regulatory framework for their recognition and financing.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that creating a safe and transparent environment for the functioning and financing of european political parties is an action which promotes the quality of european democracy.
i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, which highlights the importance of european political parties as indispensable actors in the political life of the eu, and which makes concrete proposals to create a secure and transparent regulatory environment for the operation and funding of european political parties.
the rhetoric of the report tends to obscure its real intentions, with the symptomatic statement that it seeks to 'strengthen development based on a highly competitive social market economy, aiming at full employment and social progress', coupled with a 'high level of environmental protection and improvement'.
the aim is to strengthen free competition and to speed up the process of liberalisation and privatisation, although the whole document is covered with language that seeks to hide its real intentions, writing, for example, that it is intended to 'strengthen development based on a highly competitive social market economy, aiming at full employment and social progress, with a high level of protection and improvement of the quality of the environment', adding that it is thus intended to put companies, especially smes, and europeans at the centre of the single market.
− the full realisation of a barrier-free and competitive single market, with tangible benefits for the daily lives of workers, students, pensioners and citizens in general, as well as for businesses, is essential to revitalise the european economy and boost the eu's growth, competitiveness and sustainability.
− the full realisation of a barrier-free and competitive single market is essential to revitalise the european economy and boost the eu's growth, competitiveness and sustainability.
it is also because it is committed to a single market for energy - by reducing energy dependence and creating infrastructure and more competitive prices for final consumers.
among its objectives was to implement actions that would provide firms with stronger, more sustainable and equitable growth.
let us focus on the examples given by some of the quotes in the report, for example in the area of energy: 'reiterates the importance of a fully operational internal energy market; stresses that the internal energy market must contribute to maintaining energy prices that are affordable for both businesses and consumers.'
the report also contains a number of recommendations on the use of energy in the transport sector.
'stresses the importance of a fully operational internal energy market; stresses that the internal energy market must contribute to maintaining energy prices that are affordable for both businesses and consumers.'
it is enough to look at the portuguese situation to see that liberalisation has led to privatisation, high prices for companies and consumers and profits of over a billion euros for edp shareholders and the same for galp and other companies in the energy sector.
in addition to this, i believe that the commission and the member states should take due account of the importance of innovation in strong and sustainable growth and job creation.
− the full realisation of a barrier-free and competitive single market is essential to revitalise the european economy and boost the eu's growth, competitiveness and sustainability.
it is therefore curious that measures are being taken to build a stronger single market, one that is better able to respond to the needs of eu businesses, and in particular smes, by making it an environment favourable to innovation, based on a digital economy, and in which there is a real freedom of movement of services.
we have pointed out that the liberalization of trade in agricultural products promotes models of intensive export-oriented production, which favours large agro-industry at the expense of small and medium-sized farming, family farming and supplying local and regional markets, all with negative consequences for food sovereignty, food security and quality, and also for the environment.
− bluetongue, also known as blue tongue, is a disease that mainly affects ruminant animals such as sheep, goats and cattle and can become epidemic when environmental and climatic conditions are favourable, particularly in late summer and early autumn.
the technical aspects of safe energy capture must be considered very carefully, as any such situation that occurs again may have more serious consequences, both for human health and the environment, than the material aspects.
persisting in denying the great risks of using nuclear energy is not the best way of serving our citizens.
strengthening nuclear safety, testing for vulnerabilities, freezing nuclear expansion projects in europe and investing more effectively in clean energy and energy conservation should have been obvious conclusions.
these events have led to a wave of reactions in europe, with commissioner oettinger calling for an extraordinary meeting of the international atomic energy agency; the german chancellor suspending for three months the decision to extend the life of the country's nuclear power stations; and the austrian environment minister, nikolaus berlakivich, demanding tests be carried out on european power stations.
the problems with the fukushima nuclear power plant have put the discussion on the energy from nuclear fusion on the agenda, since 30% of the energy consumed in the european union comes from this source, with countries producing around 80%, such as france, and countries without nuclear power plants such as portugal and austria.
these assessments should be based on a rigorous and harmonised assessment model, covering all types of possible risks in a realistic european scenario, and be carried out by the end of the current year in an independent and coordinated manner, covering all existing and planned nuclear installations in the eu; nuclear energy is now indispensable to ensuring europe's low-carbon energy supply.
however, we must move towards greater energy efficiency and increased renewable energy.
the commission and the member states should focus on modernising and expanding european energy infrastructure and on interconnecting networks to ensure a reliable energy supply.
and also to take this experience into account in future energy developments.
it is necessary that experts from the specialised bodies of the member states and also from the international atomic energy agency (iaea) be involved in this evaluation, while preserving their function, authority, autonomy and independence.
it is regrettable that this resolution is used as a pretext to support the so-called common energy policy and its objectives of liberalizing the energy sector.
it is necessary that experts from the member states' specialised agencies and also from the international atomic energy agency (iaea) be part of this evaluation, preserving their function, authority, autonomy and independence, and above all that the lessons be learned seriously and that the result of the analysis of this experience be incorporated into future developments in energy matters.
we do not agree with interference in the energy policies of member states and third countries, and recommendations at this level should be made by the eea as a technical, autonomous and independent body, with the appropriate support of the eu.
the danger posed to mankind by nuclear energy is absolutely unsustainable, as are the risks added by the waste produced.
the commission has not yet been able to secure an exit plan for the effective change in european energy policy, which will necessarily involve defining alternatives and phasing out the nuclear industry in europe.
i consider it important to increase the effectiveness of development aid and the need for a coherent accompanying policy in areas such as trade and development cooperation, climate change, agriculture, etc.
it is essential that this conference reaffirm the global commitment to address the special needs of the least developed countries related to sustainable development in its economic, social and environmental dimensions and to support them in their efforts to eradicate poverty.
the long-term objective of development cooperation must be to create the conditions for sustainable economic development and a fair redistribution of wealth.
this parliament will also be represented by a delegation with well-founded proposals, although its observer status does not allow for much visibility, and i hope that it will be a strong impetus for us to win the 'battle' of sustainable development and equitable growth in these countries.
− in the context of the 4th united nations development conference, it is appropriate to consider the millennium development goals (mdgs) adopted by the united nations general assembly in 2000 and to assess their achievement, namely: eradicating poverty and hunger; promoting equality between men and women; increasing and improving maternal and child health care; combating hiv/aids; developing environmental sustainability; achieving universal primary education.
i share this view because i also believe that the conference should promote coherent development policies by promoting action in all areas - such as trade, fisheries, the environment, agriculture, climate change, energy, investment and finance - to strongly support the development needs of the least developed countries, to combat poverty and to ensure decent incomes and livelihoods.
iceland's experience in the field of renewable energy can also make a valuable contribution to eu policies, in particular in the fields of geothermal energy exploitation, environmental protection and measures to combat climate change.
iceland's accession to the eu will improve the eu's prospects of playing a more active and constructive role in northern europe and the arctic by contributing to multilateral governance and sustainable policy solutions for the region.
iceland is an efta member, has a market economy which can bring some advantages to the eu, particularly in the area of renewable energy.
i welcome, however, the recent adoption of the energy law, which aims at liberalising the country's electricity market and is in line with the relevant european directives.
i welcome the adoption of the national strategy for sustainable development but more efforts are needed to implement environmental legislation and to provide adequate funding for this.
it calls for closer cooperation on crossborder environmental issues based on eu standards, in particular in the field of water quality, waste management and nature protection.
i express my full support for president ouattara, his government and the people of côte d'ivoire in their task of reconciliation, recovery and sustainable development.
a bottom-up approach, with support for civil society and democratisation processes, is a prerequisite for long-term stability and sustainable growth.
− first, i would like to congratulate the eib on all the work it has done, and in particular on the support it has given to smes through its financing which has been progressively increased since 2008 and also through the creation of the progress european microfinance facility in march 2010. i also welcome the commitment to the idea of project bonds, which are intended to improve the risk rating of bonds issued by companies themselves and used to finance european infrastructure in the fields of transport, energy and information technology.
the eib focused on three areas where the crisis has hit europe hardest: small and medium-sized enterprises, convergence regions and climate action.
but in view of the structural trend towards higher oil prices and also the requirements of environmental sustainability, measures are also required to ensure the viability of the sector in the medium/long term.
the eff needs to provide effective and substantial support for the renewal and modernisation of fishing fleets, in particular in terms of improving gear selectivity, replacing engines for safety, environmental protection and fuel economy reasons.
the commission should therefore allow for a transitional period of three years for the aid that member states can grant to fishermen to be increased from eur 30 000 to eur 60 000. in addition, the european fisheries fund (eff) should provide aid to fishermen, in particular for improving the selectivity of fishing gear and for replacing engines, for reasons of safety, environmental protection and/or fuel economy.
the multifaceted crisis we face calls for a new economic, social, energy and environmental rationality, which free trade, one of the pillars of neoliberalism, clearly makes impossible.
to this end, sufficient financial resources should be channelled through community support programmes and measures to assess the ecological and phytosanitary status of forests and their restoration, including reforestation, giving preference to native species and mixed forests for the sake of their resilience and biodiversity.
- i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the european environment agency for 2009, as it contributes to the scrutiny of the use of funds by the european institutions.
i consider it a very important institution, particularly in terms of adaptation to climate change, assessment of ecosystems, sustainable consumption and production and prevention and management of natural disasters.
− the european environment agency (eea) aims to provide credible and independent information on the environment.
the agency's mandate includes two aspects: supporting the community and the member states of the european union in formulating economic policy that integrates environmental issues and sustainability; and coordinating environmental information through the eionet network.
assessing the state of the environment, identifying environmental trends, including economic and social factors underlying environmental pressures, monitoring environmental policies and their effectiveness, and forecasting future trends and problems are all relevant issues that warrant careful monitoring by the eea.
the rapporteur makes some considerations and recommendations which we consider relevant to the budgetary procedures to be taken into account by the european environment agency.
this agency can and should play an important role in obtaining objective, reliable and comparable information on the environment in europe and in making it available in an accessible and accurate manner.
− having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2009, together with the agency's replies, i have voted in favour of this decision, which gives the executive director of the european environment agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing.
- the environmental disasters of the erika and prestige ships have clearly exposed the need to do more for maritime safety at european level.
the european atomic energy community (euratom) is involved in the fields of atomic energy, including research, the development of safety standards and the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
despite the recent concerns arising from the fukushima accident, nuclear energy is part of the european energy mix.
albania and the jra have signed a stabilisation and association agreement with the eu, and there is significant employment potential associated with the development of a sustainable economy and green infrastructure which by their nature lead to the creation of local jobs, thus contributing significantly to the europe 2020 strategy.
moreover, resource efficiency, sustainable economic development and nature conservation can and should be inseparable and should at the same time strengthen cooperation with neighbouring countries for their integration into the european area.
- i welcome the efforts made by the member states to work with non-eu countries to make resource exploitation sustainable.
i therefore support the conclusion of the agreement on the protection and sustainable development of the prespa park area, as i believe that this park is important for the development of the three countries sharing it - greece, the fry and albania - as well as for the environment, nature conservation and the unleashing of a whole range of positive consequences that could result from this type of cooperation, in particular the strengthening of good relations in the balkan region.
- i welcome the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union, albania and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which aims to establish cooperation between all those sharing the prespa river basin, in order to ensure integrated protection of the ecosystem and the sustainable development of the park.
this agreement demonstrates the successful implementation of the eu water framework directive, for the protection of the environment, for the improvement of the living standards of the inhabitants of the region, as well as for cooperation between the three countries (greece, albania and the fry), reinforcing the good neighbourly relations between the parties in the particularly sensitive region of the balkans.
− this recommendation concerns the draft european council decision on the conclusion of an agreement on the protection and sustainable development of the area of the prespa national park (classified as such since 1977) and designated as a transfrontier protected area under the declaration of 2 february 2000 by the prespa countries (greece, albania and the republic of macedonia).
the aim of the agreement is to establish cooperation between the eu and the abovementioned countries in order to promote the sustainable development of the region, in particular through integrated management plans for the prespa river basin and the protection of the ecosystem.
at a time when the number of disasters caused by climate change is increasing, i congratulate the council on this project and hope that it will be signed as soon as possible.
the aim of the agreement is to establish cooperation in order to ensure integrated protection of the ecosystem and sustainable development of the prespa park area, including the development of integrated river basin management plans.
in this regard, the countries involved in the agreement undertake to take the necessary measures, individually or in cooperation, respecting the principles of sovereign equality, territorial integrity, mutual benefit and good faith, with a view to the management of the waters of prespa, the prevention, control and reduction of pollution, the protection and conservation of biodiversity, soil protection, the prudent use of natural resources and sustainable development.
the prespa watershed, shared by greece, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and albania, is of extreme ecological importance as a vital habitat for the conservation of many rare and/or endemic species of fauna and flora, as a nesting place for globally endangered birds and as a repository of significant cultural heritage.
the aim of this agreement is to establish cooperation to ensure integrated protection of the ecosystem and sustainable development of the prespa park area, including the development of integrated river basin management plans.
in this regard, the countries involved in the agreement undertake to take the necessary measures, individually or in cooperation, respecting the principles of sovereign equality, territorial integrity, mutual benefit and good faith, with a view to the management of the waters of prespa, the prevention, control and reduction of pollution, the protection and conservation of biodiversity, soil protection, the prudent use of natural resources and sustainable development.
- this report is based on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the protection and sustainable development of the prespa park area of the prespa river basin.
in this context, the need arises to establish an international agreement for the pursuit of the objectives of the water framework directive, namely the protection of biodiversity and ecosystem services in this area.
i voted in favour of this report, which was previously unanimously approved by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
as a focus of biodiversity of undeniable ecological interest, which also translates into a natural climate regulator, its protection is worthy of the efforts of the european union, in accordance with the provisions of the water directive (2000/60/ec).
according to this directive, when a river basin is concerned that extends beyond the territorial limits of the union, coordination efforts should be undertaken between the states concerned, and to this end an agreement on the protection and sustainable development of the prespa park area was concluded on 2 february 2010, in which the commission, on behalf of the eu, also participated.
i believe that the effectiveness of such measures is essential to ensure the conservation and sustainability of marine ecosystems and, therefore, of the marine exploitation and industry.
illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing is a global threat to the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources.
the objective of this agreement is to prevent, deter and eliminate iuu fishing through the application of effective port state measures and thus ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and marine ecosystems.
we know that illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing is a global threat to the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources.
the objective of this agreement is to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal fishing through the application of effective port state measures and thus ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and marine ecosystems.
− the objective of this agreement is to prevent, deter and eliminate iuu (illegal, unreported and unregulated) fishing through the application of effective port state measures and thus ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and marine ecosystems, covering not only fishing vessels but also transport vessels that can be used to transport fishery products.
- illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is a serious obstacle to sustainable development, as it can threaten living aquatic resources.
the objective of the agreement is to prevent, deter and eliminate iuu fishing through the application of effective port state measures and thereby ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and marine ecosystems.
iuu fishing continues to constitute one of the most serious global threats to the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources and the eu has played an active and constructive role in the elaboration of this draft agreement.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
− the joint undertaking's mission is to provide the euratom contribution to the international fusion energy organisation iter and to the broader approach activities with japan with a view to the rapid realisation of fusion energy, as well as to develop and coordinate a programme of activities in preparation for the construction of a demonstration fusion reactor (demo) and associated facilities, namely the international fusion materials irradiation facility (ifmif).
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union strategy for the environment (2007-2013) and a communication on the implementation of the european union strategy for the environment (2008-2013).
more effective forms of aid; aimed at the rehabilitation of the affected areas and the improvement of the living conditions of the affected populations; based on an effective and lasting development cooperation and aid policy, which supports the integrated and sustainable development of local communities.
- i welcome the efforts being made to promote prosperity beyond the eu's borders, as i consider our help to be important in enabling certain third countries to cope with their balance of payments crisis and to restore external debt sustainability.
we also share the same reservations and concerns about possible progress towards the militarization of the caucasus region, following tensions with russia, given the region's energy wealth and geostrategic importance, which is being coveted by the eu and its monopolies.
on the other hand, as underlined in the white paper on the roadmap for a single european transport area, it is essential that the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by up to 60% by 2050 is met.
the codification of existing legislation will bring the laws of the member states closer together with regard to the establishment of technical rules for the permissible sound level and the exhaust system of motor vehicles, which will promote environmental sustainability at european level.
the ep also welcomed the commission's proposal to introduce a new directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
− in the current environment, where new technologies play an increasingly important role, it is essential that all european citizens have the same conditions of access to digital technologies and broadband connections, regardless of whether they live in rural or urban areas.
spectrum policy is at the heart of the digital agenda for europe and is key to achieving the policy objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
this programme aims not only to create a competitive and dynamic european industry for the provision of broadband wireless services and equipment, but also to create an environment conducive to the development of pan-european services.
a number of actions will be needed to ensure the smooth and sustainable functioning of the european financial market, of which i consider it important to highlight a targeted approach to respond to the needs of the real economy, as well as the implementation of a policy of increased social responsibility and risk appreciation by the boards of directors in order to avoid a future financial crisis.
- i voted in favour of the motion for an alternative resolution on corporate governance in financial institutions, as it contains proposals to improve corporate governance structures across the eu, taking into account the need for the financial sector to respond to the needs of the real economy, to contribute to sustainable growth and to demonstrate greater social responsibility.
− the report acknowledges some important aspects and some evidence, such as the fact that the financial sector must respond to the needs of the economy, contribute to sustainable growth and demonstrate social responsibility, and that during the recent financial crisis many institutions around the world have been a heavy burden on the taxpayer.
− the only important aspect the report presents is the recognition that the financial sector must respond to the needs of the real economy, contribute to sustainable growth and demonstrate greater social responsibility, adding further that during the recent financial crisis many institutions around the world have been a heavy burden on the taxpayer.
the eu must have a long-term productive, social and environmental model that respects the interests of all, companies, shareholders and workers.
given the importance of the eu-india strategic relationship and the fact that issues relating to agriculture, respect for human rights (in particular the issue of child labour), environmental protection, compliance with the recommendations of the international labour organisation on social issues and respect for copyright are safeguarded, the conditions are right for us to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
the multifaceted crisis we face calls for a new economic, social, energy and environmental rationality and the defence of each country's right to produce in a sustainable way - something that free trade, one of the pillars of neoliberalism, clearly makes impossible.
we cannot therefore fail to take into account that the objectives of the common commercial policy must be fully coordinated with the overall objectives of the european union and that, according to the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the union's common commercial policy must be conducted in accordance with the principles and objectives of the union's external action, and must contribute, in particular, to sustainable development, poverty eradication and the protection of human rights.
it is therefore very important that the use of child labour and the failure to comply with international social and environmental standards, which is a form of dumping harmful to european companies and workers, should not be forgotten in these negotiations.
it is a view of trade, so-called free, as a class instrument in the service of the big economic and financial groups, promoting an increasing exploitation of workers and peoples, with social dumping, which is associated with the destruction of productive forces and environmental degradation, with environmental dumping.
in almost all cases, they are negotiated in the utmost secrecy, behind the backs of the citizens, seeking to conceal their economic, social and environmental impacts, avoiding informed debate and clarification.
- negotiations with japan to deepen trade relations cannot be used as a class tool in the service of the big economic and financial groups, promoting the growing exploitation of workers and peoples, the destruction of productive forces and the destruction of the environment.
− i support this proposal, as the scale of the threats and the total area of eu forests require increased funding for forests through the second pillar of the cap, subject to the existence of nfps and operational management plans integrating the eu biodiversity strategy, as well as long timelines for forestry projects under the gfs.
payments for ecosystem services (eps) should be formalised for the next financial perspective, based on the success of forest and water projects.
in view of this, and without forgetting the environmental importance of these green spaces, i consider it essential to take measures to combat the negative effects of climate change that have recently occurred at global level in order to safeguard european forests and all the positive externalities associated with them.
i therefore welcome this initiative by the commission, which is translated into a green paper on information for forest protection, because in order to act effectively we must first of all know the damage suffered recently by our forests as a result of the new global climate, particularly in relation to storms, increased fire risk, pests and fungal diseases.
enhanced forest protection should be part of eu and member states' strategies, especially in view of the proliferation of climate-related extreme events such as fires, floods, landslides and desertification.
i therefore support the creation of new instruments and increased funding for eu forest protection measures, in particular to meet the new challenges posed by climate change.
information on forest resources, the state of forests and the impact of climate change is also essential to ensure that decisions taken in relation to forests deliver the greatest possible socio-economic and ecological benefits.
- i voted in favour of the report on preparing forests for climate change.
taking into account the potential of forests for climate change mitigation and adaptation, as well as their economic, social and environmental value, it is necessary to strengthen european policies in the field of sustainable development and forest conservation, in particular legislation on forest fire risk prevention and management.
these figures reflect a fundamental need for good european forest policies and for their use and sustainability, not only as an environmental but also as a key economic resource.
in the logic of protecting the forest as a fundamental economic and environmental resource, i cannot forget, as a portuguese, that fighting the forest fires with which my country has been plagued must be an absolute priority for any european policy in this area.
− this report focuses on the commission green paper entitled 'protecting forests and forest information in the eu: preparing forests for climate change'.
without forests, the consequences of climate change would be much more severe.
i therefore welcome the adoption of this report which draws attention to the disregard for this sector, calls for the recognition and appreciation of the diversity of species in the eu and for the need to implement a modern and effective forestry policy which takes advantage of new management of biomass, carbon credits, in addition to traditional activities.
but it is important to move from paper to practice, particularly in terms of mobilising sufficient financial resources through community support programmes and measures, which will allow for the monitoring of the ecological and phytosanitary status of forests and, where necessary, their requalification, including reforestation measures.
but it is important to move from paper to practice, particularly in terms of mobilising sufficient financial resources through community support programmes and measures, which will allow for the monitoring of the ecological and phytosanitary status of forests and, where necessary, their requalification, including reforestation measures.
in the face of these figures, european forest policies are needed to make forestry environmentally and economically sustainable.
the report on the commission green paper entitled 'protecting forests and forest information in the eu: preparing forests for climate change' sets out the european parliament's concerns in this area.
forests in the european union cover more than 42% of the eu's surface and represent 16 million forest owners, providing more than 2 million direct jobs, mainly in smes, and representing a turnover of €300 billion, in addition to their positive and essential impact on combating climate change due to their capacity to fix carbon dioxide and release oxygen.
- i voted in favour of this report, considering it absolutely essential to strengthen european policies with a view to the conservation and sustainable management of forests, whose invaluable economic, social and environmental value must be preserved.
i consider it essential that member states adopt a harmonious position in external relations, as such cohesion will contribute to peace, security, solidarity and conflict prevention at international level, as well as to sustainable development and the eu's ability to influence the international order.
− the eu should continue to develop its foreign policy objectives and promote its values and interests on a global scale, with the overall aim of contributing to peace, security, solidarity, conflict prevention, the promotion of democracy, the protection of human rights, gender equality, respect for international law, support for international institutions, effective multilateralism and mutual respect between nations, sustainable development, free and fair trade and poverty eradication.
− i voted in favour of this resolution which, on the basis of the council's annual report on the cfsp for 2009 - the transparency of which is welcomed - stresses the need for the european union to continue to develop its foreign policy objectives and promote its values and interests on a global scale, with the overall aim of contributing to peace, security, solidarity, conflict prevention, the promotion of democracy, the protection of human rights, gender equality, respect for international law, support for international institutions, effective multilateralism and mutual respect between nations, sustainable development, free and fair trade and poverty eradication.
− i consider it essential that member states adopt a harmonious position in external relations, as such cohesion will lead to peace, security, solidarity and conflict prevention at international level, as well as to sustainable development and the eu's ability to influence the international order.
we must therefore make every effort to ensure that it promotes its values and interests on a global scale, with the overall aim of contributing to peace, security, solidarity, conflict prevention, the promotion of democracy, the protection of human rights, gender equality, respect for international law, support for international institutions, effective multilateralism and mutual respect between nations, sustainable development, free and fair trade and poverty eradication.
in this regard, cooperation with the major regional powers should be fostered so that the eu can play an active part in creating and improving an international environment which enables it to promote its values and interests, as required by the treaty.
portugal has no problem with the sustainability of public accounts or with the insolvency of national banks.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i have tried to support this idea by drawing attention to some of the main challenges we face in these areas: scarcity and resource efficiency, waste recovery and treatment, food quality and safety, demographic change, new epidemics, nature conservation and biodiversity - to name just a few examples.
i have tried to argue that innovation should be guided, above all, by criteria of defending the public interest, improving the quality of life of the population, promoting social welfare and preserving the environment and natural balances.
it should be a key element of public policies in areas such as the environment, water, energy, transport, telecommunications, health and education.
europe needs a sustainable and competitive economic model that responds to today's major social challenges and ensures more and better jobs.
madam president, at a time of serious economic and social crisis, such as that which is currently being experienced in several member states of the european union, a debate on innovation in all fields of knowledge and in all areas of economic and social activity is welcome, but such innovation must be guided by criteria of defending the public interest, improving the quality of life of the population, promoting social well-being and preserving the environment and natural balances.
some of our urban macro-regions also have the elements that creative industries need to be sustainable on their own, namely capital intensive, talent and knowledge concentrated and a wide range of businesses already based there.
i support the report presented and call for strong funding for the initiative, which is essential for sustainable growth.
it is one of the seven flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy, which has as interlinked priorities smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
− in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, the skills and knowledge of young people are essential to achieving the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
youth therefore have a key role to play in achieving the five major eu 2020 goals: jobs, research and innovation, climate and energy, education and poverty reduction.
this measure is one of the key actions of the youth on the move initiative, which is part of the europe 2020 strategy of the european commission to promote smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth.
− at a time when young people are facing the effects of the global financial crisis in a particularly acute way, everything must be done to ensure that they can develop the skills, qualifications and knowledge that will enable them to actively contribute to the growth and sustainable future of the european union.
the youth on the move initiative is one of the seven flagship initiatives of the european commission's europe 2020 strategy to promote smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth, comprising 28 key actions and concrete measures to increase education and training for young people through mobility and ease of transition of young people from education to the labour market.
when the foundation is bad, sustainability is compromised and the building can collapse.
the report acknowledges some relevant aspects in its recitals, such as the link between a poor and disadvantaged environment and low qualifications, or the great difficulties of many families in articulating family obligations with the deregulation of working hours and job insecurity.
the report acknowledges some relevant aspects in its recitals, such as the link between a poor and disadvantaged environment and low qualifications, or the great difficulties of many families in articulating family obligations with the deregulation of working hours and job insecurity.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission will also be proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the protection of the environment and the environment.
in addition, this resolution contains a number of positive aspects, such as: - that fisheries agreements between the eu and third countries should be preceded by a broad debate in the countries concerned, which allows for the participation of the public, civil society organisations and national parliaments, thus promoting greater democracy and transparency; - the financial support granted to the multiannual fisheries programme of mauritania must be adjusted to the country's needs for the sustainable development of fisheries; - the need to carry out a thorough and detailed assessment of the causes of the insufficient achievement of the objectives of development cooperation and of the various lines of support for the fisheries sector in mauritania.
as regards the stocks caught, the surplus stocks and those which cannot be caught by the mauritanian fishing fleet should be used, so that the environmental balance is maintained and the activity is sustainable over the years.
− fisheries agreements with third countries should ensure a fair balance between economic interests and the promotion of sustainable fisheries.
− i support this proposal, considering that it will benefit the eu, as a well-functioning public procurement market is essential to promote the single market, stimulate innovation, promote a high level of environmental and climate protection, and social inclusion across the eu.
− public procurement represents important economic opportunities for businesses, is of significant importance in promoting the single market, stimulates innovation, promotes environmental and climate protection, and social inclusion.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
− a well-functioning public procurement market is of key importance for promoting a single market, stimulating innovation, boosting employment, growth and competitiveness, promoting a high level of environmental and climate protection and the protection of social rights across the eu, and for delivering the highest value for public authorities, citizens and taxpayers.
− a well-functioning public procurement market is of key importance to promote the single market, stimulate innovation, promote a high level of environmental and climate protection as well as social inclusion across the eu, and to deliver the highest value for public authorities, citizens and taxpayers.
- the need for the european fisheries fund (eff) to continue to grant aid to improve the selectivity of fishing gear and to replace engines for reasons of safety, environmental protection and/or fuel economy, especially for small-scale coastal and artisanal fishing; by calling on the commission to draw up a medium- and long-term plan to improve fuel efficiency in the fisheries sector (including aquaculture); it also called on the commission to improve fuel efficiency in the fisheries and aquaculture sector, suggesting an action plan tailored to coastal and island regions with a dynamic fisheries sector.
the energy bill represents the largest share of the operating costs for the fisheries sector and, unlike other activities, the sector cannot counteract the increase in this cost by increasing production, due to the catch ceiling established by the tacs and quotas.
the small business act encourages member states to improve the business environment for the benefit of smes and therefore its principles should be properly worked out and adopted.
hence the need to review existing legislation in order to facilitate access to finance, reduce administrative costs and all the red tape, encourage energy saving (currently only 24% of companies value this issue), improve business technology through eco-innovation, encourage the improvement of the level of qualifications, education and vocational training, and promote internationalisation and good governance.
since europe is heavily dependent on imports, member states feel a common need to look for smart and sustainable ways of using resources and raw materials needed for energy production as well as for industry or food production.
indeed, new sustainable ways of using resources and raw materials more intelligently and efficiently are increasingly needed.
- i voted in favour of this report because it presents a set of measures to successfully tackle a number of societal challenges, including climate change, energy and resource scarcity, an ageing population and difficult access to quality public and health services.
in the opinion i was responsible for in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on this same subject, i tried to summarise the essence of our vision and concerns in this field.
it should be a key element of public policies in areas such as the environment, water, energy, transport, telecommunications, health and education and help to solve problems such as scarcity and resource efficiency, waste recovery and treatment, food quality and safety, demographic change, emerging epidemics, nature conservation and biodiversity.
since europe is heavily dependent on imports, member states feel a common need to look for smart and sustainable ways of using resources and raw materials needed for energy production as well as for industry or food production.
given the widespread dependence on imports, member states feel a common need to look for smart and sustainable ways of using resources and raw materials needed for energy production as well as for industry or food production.
i therefore welcome the support for the creative sector, because i believe that this is the right way to achieve lasting and sustainable growth in the european economy in the face of the global situation we are facing today.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
with the development of cultural and creative industries, we are contributing to sustainable economic development and job creation.
secondly, i stress the need for greater emphasis on thematic areas crucial to the future of europe, such as energy security, the environment and health.
i think that research and innovation are fundamental contributions if we want to think about a development model that is fairer, more redistributive and more sustainable, and that is why we cannot let go of some dimensions.
these agreements are increasingly lacking in democratic legitimacy, since they are negotiated almost always in the utmost secrecy, behind the backs of the citizens, seeking to conceal their economic, social and environmental impacts, and avoiding informed debate and clarification.
it is essential that the incentives and the incentives should be geared in future towards quality based on sustainable production methods, as the socialist and democratic group has been insisting on.
we can only have fair competition if it works with clear rules for producers, exporters and importers, taking account of common social and environmental considerations.
the way in which these schemes will be financed requires particular rigour in order to avoid waste as well as imagination in order to attract support and partners.
it is also clear that egnos and gnss systems can, in general, make an important contribution to environmental and safety objectives and to better traffic flow in the road transport sector through their provision in road toll systems.
gnss applications and services in the field of transport have a variety of implications for the safety, efficiency, economic and environmental costs of all modes of transport.
- i believe that the regulatory convergence brought about by certain international air agreements will be achieved by creating a level playing field, which is not only beneficial for industry in the countries concerned, but also an opportunity to standardise and strengthen social and environmental standards.
− the conclusion of global air transport agreements with neighbouring countries or major global partners is of particular importance in terms of market access and regulatory convergence, promoting a level playing field, the same level of social and environmental standards, etc., which brings benefits to all parties: passengers, freight transport operators and airlines.
most of these agreements have as their implicit objective the opening up of the market and the liberalisation of the sector, arguing for free competition or avoiding distortions of competition, the benefits that the most powerful companies can derive from it and the false environmental solution to reducing carbon emissions, namely the inclusion of aviation in the emissions trading system.
eurovignette iii will allow member states to tax road users for external costs (pollution, air, noise) so that polluters-payers are introduced into road transport.
in anticipation of the white paper, the legislation now envisaged obliges member states and the commission to take the next steps towards a more sustainable and interoperable transport system, a harmonised charging system and more internalisation of external costs.
− the revision of the eurovignette directive requires heavy goods vehicles travelling on european motorways to be subject to the polluter pays principle, allowing member states to include the costs of noise and air pollution in national tolls.
without wanting to minimize the environmental issue, i do not think that now is the time to burden european companies with another tax.
these new provisions of the euro-vignette directive will allow member states to include in the tolls charged to heavy goods vehicles, in addition to the cost of using the infrastructure, an amount corresponding to the cost of noise and air pollution caused by traffic.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the effects of the oil crisis.
this situation must be changed, both for reasons of environmental and public health, due to the high levels of pollution associated with it, and also for reasons of an energy nature, linked to the progressive shortage of oil and the increased difficulty of access to this raw material.
- this directive provides that member states are to include in the tolls charged to heavy goods vehicles, in addition to the cost of using the infrastructure, an amount corresponding to the cost of noise and air pollution caused by traffic.
authorizing and legitimizing pollution if it's economically viable for the company is not a path to sustainability.
i believe that the european union's priority must be to impose stricter measures on the pollution caused by heavy road transport and to make a decisive move towards rail freight transport.
this directive, without solving the problem of pollution, aggravates inequality between member states by placing a greater burden on peripheral countries such as portugal, which are exporters but not transit countries.
- environmental concerns can never be called into question.
- this report presents a pragmatic approach to waste no more time with the adoption of the so-called eurovignette iii directive on the charging of heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures.
the proposal to reserve revenue for external costs and infrastructure to be used in particular for sustainable transport and transeuropean networks should be emphasised.
- this directive provides that member states are to include in the tolls charged to heavy goods vehicles, in addition to the cost of using the infrastructure, an amount corresponding to the cost of noise and air pollution caused by traffic.
authorizing and legitimizing pollution if it's economically viable for the company is not a path to sustainability.
i believe that the european union's priority must be to impose stricter measures on the pollution caused by heavy road transport and to make a decisive move towards rail freight transport.
this directive, without solving the problem of pollution, aggravates inequality between member states by placing a greater burden on peripheral countries such as portugal, which are exporters but not transit countries.
- the proposal to revise the eurovignette directive in question aims to introduce the polluter-pays principle in road transport, allowing member states to include the costs of noise and air pollution in national tolls, which translates into the imposition of an additional charge on heavy vehicles.
- the report is approved, taking into account that, with the necessary negotiations, the rapporteur had the opportunity to ensure the inclusion of a revision clause for the regulation in question for the possible introduction, following an implementation report by the commission, of new models covering a variety of environmental goods.
- for sustainable development, it is essential to make sound environmental policy decisions based on reliable data.
i therefore support and welcome the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the economic accounts for the environment of the european union, as i believe it will help to evaluate policies, in particular by providing data on the environmental impact of economic activities.
- i voted in favour of the report on the economic accounts of the european union for the environment, as i considered it necessary to have indicators relating to sustainable development and the well-being of citizens, in addition to gdp, which would also allow the evaluation of european environmental policies.
the report also calls for the commission to take action to ensure that the environmental impact of the eu's activities is taken into account in the environmental assessment of the eu's policies.
this is an important idea and is, in fact, the only way to obtain concrete data on the real impact of environmental policies.
while economic growth cannot ignore the environment, environmental policies cannot ignore (or turn their backs on) economic activities and the competitiveness of european firms and industries.
it is always in this light that i see the problem of sustainable development, which necessarily implies economic growth with respect for the environment, two sides of the same coin that europe, especially at the present time, cannot (and must not) forget.
− on 28 september 2009, the commission presented a communication entitled gdp and beyond: measuring progress in a changing world, proposing measures to create a database on eu environmental accounts with a view to better public debate and better informed decision-making.
the legal framework created by this proposal will enable the eu to assess environmental accounts in the light of sustainable development.
it's never been more important to pay attention to the environmental/economic bipolarity.
it is essential that we leave a healthy environment for future generations.
− the development and provision of indicators and descriptive statistics to monitor the evolution of economic and environmental factors and their possible interactions is undoubtedly a useful tool to support strategic planning, the definition of public policies and the delineation of sustainable development pathways.
the information obtained can provide an important basis for environmental policy decisions.
the proposal for a regulation only provides for the collection and compilation of data in the field of emissions into the atmosphere, environmental taxes by economic activity and the accounts of material flows to the economy.
- the proposal for a regulation under discussion only provides for the collection and compilation of data in the field of emissions into the atmosphere, environmental taxes per economic activity and material flow accounts for the economy.
but the development and provision of indicators and descriptive statistics to monitor the evolution of economic and environmental factors and possible interactions between them is undoubtedly a useful tool to support strategic planning, policy-making and the development of sustainable development pathways.
the data obtained can and should contribute to policy evaluation by allowing the environmental impact of economic activities to be measured.
the information obtained can provide an important basis for environmental policy decisions.
− i believe that a better range of statistics on the environmental consequences of member states' and eu policies, as well as on the accounting of certain taxes that underpin environmental policies, is needed.
it is regrettable that statistics and taxes are indiscriminately included in environmental accounting.
the aim of this assimilation is the implementation of the climate market and its pollution stock exchange rights.
− it is very important that environmental economic accounts contribute to policy evaluation by providing data on the environmental impact of economic activities.
this information can provide an important basis for environmental policy decisions.
this regulation provides only for the collection and compilation of data in the field of emissions to air, environmental taxes per economic activity and material flow accounts for the economy.
it is a first step towards the development of more complete economic accounts of the environment, since, according to information from the competent european and national statistical services, only data at european level are currently available for these areas.
further progress is therefore needed to make environmental statistics more reliable and more frequent.
− in 2006, the european council invited the eu and its member states to extend national accounts to the main aspects of sustainable development, proposing measures to be taken in the short and medium term to develop global indicators that would provide a better public debate and help decision-making based on the economic impacts of the environmental measures to be implemented.
i voted in favour of this report because i agree with this first step towards the development of more complete environmental economic accounts, since at present, according to the relevant european and national statistical services, only data at european level are available.
other priority modules already under work should be identified in a work plan and for which corresponding data, in particular data on the environmental impact of economic activities, may also be submitted in the near future.
recycling and waste prevention, air emissions and climate change, along with sustainable consumption and production, could be better monitored if quality data were available that combined the environment with the economy.
this data can provide important support for decision-making on environmental measures.
- a sustainable development policy requires, in order to achieve the desired effects, that information is included in decision-making processes to enable sound solutions to be adopted.
it is therefore necessary for the member states to compile a broad set of indicators which, in aggregate terms, provide a global picture of the community environment.
and the first question is this: is a sound currency sustainable without a strong european budget?
in this sense we must give priority to those areas which contribute most to competitiveness, such as scientific research, innovation and energy.
the new budget should also promote energy efficiency and support the construction of future infrastructure, in particular energy infrastructure, creating the conditions necessary for the competitiveness of european industry.
bulgaria and romania adopted the schengen acquis upon their accession to the european union in 2007. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the directive will also provide for the possibility of extending the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment.
the ep, taking into account the provisions of articles 21 and 41 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, could not fail to use this session to make its views known on a number of issues, including the role of the eu in the united nations system, the eu and global governance, peace, security and justice, development, human rights and climate change.
- given the still fragile economic environment resulting from the financial crisis that has hit europe, the rapporteur in his mid-term review points out important areas that need to be improved in order to use public funds as effectively as possible.
i am convinced that through research and development, europe can find efficient and effective answers to the energy problem, to the challenges of climate change and to improve european competitiveness and productivity, leading us to a new, now more sustainable, growth cycle.
it should also focus on key areas such as health, energy and nuclear safety, responding to the new challenges of innovation and research.
we believe that public research should be supported and its results made available in a simple and unbureaucratic way, by stimulating productive and entrepreneurial activity (especially smes), the creation of qualified employment with rights, social progress and sustainable development, focusing on fields as diverse as energy efficiency, new sources of energy, the efficient use of resources, recycling, new production processes, among others.
we must support public research and make its results available in a simple and unbureaucratized way to the innovation of micro, small and mediumsized enterprises, whether in terms of energy efficiency, the use of new energy sources and new production processes, recycling and better use of resources, generators of jobs with rights, or in the social and human sphere, with a view to social progress.
over €50 billion is budgeted for the period 2007-13. this report sets out the way forward for this r & d framework programme, which should be linked to the europe 2020 strategy but also to the innovation union initiative, with the main objectives being the areas of climate change, energy policy, competitiveness and population ageing.
− the seventh framework programme for research and technological development (r&td) is the european commission's largest financial instrument to support and promote research activities, with over €50 billion budgeted for the period 2007-13. this report stresses that the seventh framework programme for r&d&i should be aligned with the europe 2020 strategy and the innovation union flagship initiative, focusing until its completion on the areas of climate change, energy policy, competitiveness and ageing population.
the agreement must also have an ambitious sustainable development objective that legally links social and environmental parameters.
− this motion for a resolution focuses on trade relations between the european union (eu) and canada, the negotiations of which are expected to be completed by the end of 2011. the eu's trade and investment policy aims at sustainable economic growth, which generates wealth and creates jobs.
despite the remaining open issues, such as the negative impact on biodiversity due to the extraction of tar sands and seal products - and since the problem of public procurement is practically solved - i voted in favour, given the advantages for the member states and to allow the negotiations to go ahead without any delay.
how much more so do the millions of workers, farmers, small and mediumsized businesses and many others who have been pointing the finger of blame at the wto, its trade deregulation objectives and the interests it serves - those of the transnational corporations and the large economic and financial groups, which raise millions at the expense of millions of jobs, labour and social rights, the destruction of small and mediumsized production and environmental degradation.
in general, these agreements are increasingly lacking in democratic legitimacy, since they are negotiated almost always in the utmost secrecy, behind the backs of the citizens, seeking to conceal their economic, social and environmental impacts, avoiding informed debate and clarification.
- i support this report, considering it essential to recognise that there are shortcomings both within and outside the european territory in respect of compliance with international social legislation, which constitute forms of social and environmental dumping to the detriment of the rights of european businesses and workers.
the creation of a standard of fair working conditions is an essential prerequisite for sustainable and sustainable development, and also allows us to meet the millennium development goals.
it is particularly important to bring european values to third countries, not only in the direction of democratisation and greater respect for fundamental rights, but also by promoting active policies to protect the environment, to promote the rights of women and children, and also labour standards which respect human dignity and allow the development of their potential.
the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy - smart, sustainable and inclusive growth - must be addressed now.
vocational training is seen here as a way of promoting entrepreneurship and responding to the need to create an environment where businesses can succeed, develop and grow, adding that to grow they need a reduced tax burden and predictability so that they can plan and make investments.
but the report's main emphasis is on the role of vocational training in promoting entrepreneurship and the need to create an environment where businesses can succeed, develop and grow, adding that to grow they need a reduced tax burden and predictability so they can plan and invest.
− the successful implementation of the europe 2020 strategy is essential for the eu to restart sustained and sustainable economic growth.
having the opportunity to learn and work in an international environment is an important condition for professional success in a globalised economy.
the rapporteur's proposals, namely the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs), the eradication of poverty, the channelling of 20% of resources to health and basic training, a special focus on climate issues, a new approach to support for developing countries requiring respect for human rights, and a more efficient and effective use of scarce resources, deserve my agreement and i therefore voted in favour.
− the policy of the european union should have as one of its priority objectives the introduction of a transparent, clear, effective and high-quality regulatory environment.
impact assessments provide a systematic assessment of the likely effects of legislative action on health, fundamental rights, social, economic, environmental, etc., helping to reduce red tape and ensure the coherence of eu policies.
this requires consideration of the economic, social, environmental and health consequences of the policy choices to be made and their impact on the fundamental rights of citizens throughout the policy cycle.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the impact of the new rules on the environment.
− impact assessments can be an important aid to better legislation if they study, throughout the policy cycle, all the economic, social, environmental and health consequences of the policy choices to be made, as well as their impact on the fundamental rights of citizens.
the rapporteur stresses the need to assess more effectively and efficiently the economic, social, environmental and public health consequences of the union's policy choices.
i also call for the development of clear and measurable indicators, taking into account climate change, biodiversity, resource efficiency and social inclusion, which can help towards a more inclusive, knowledge-based and low-carbon society.
- although gdp is a useful measure of production for the economic activity of markets, it does not take into account the sustainability of the development demonstrated, nor environmental, social, etc.
in more recent times, several sociologists have argued that this is not the most accurate indicator because it does not take into account aspects such as environmental sustainability or social integration.
- as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy on this report, i believe that achieving and sustaining quality of life involves important, consensus-based factors such as health, education, culture, employment, housing and environmental conditions.
gdp is a measure of output, not measuring environmental sustainability, resource efficiency, social inclusion and social progress in general, so i agree that in the future other types of instruments should be studied that allow for a greater number of reliable data to measure progress in a changing world.
for example, gdp does not measure environmental sustainability or social inclusion.
− i believe that achieving and sustaining quality of life involves important, consensus-based factors such as health, education, culture, employment, housing and environmental conditions.
− the commission communication to the council and the european parliament on gdp and beyond - measuring progress in a changing world (com (2009) 433 final) recognises that gdp is a proxy indicator for overall societal development and progress in general, but does not measure environmental sustainability or social inclusion.
i therefore support this report because i believe it is important for the european union to adopt a systematic approach to measuring the full extent of social well-being, with a particular focus on economic, environmental and quality of life factors in the medium and long term.
i believe that these indicators should take a strategic lead in shaping future cohesion policy, thus contributing to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, in line with the principles enshrined in europe 2020.
in writing.
only a fully functioning galileo and egnos system will provide added value for the eu in all its policies, including transport, agriculture, combating climate change, preventing natural and man-made disasters and science, technology and innovation.
only when the galileo and egnos systems are fully operational will they provide concrete european added value in all european union policies, in particular in transport, agriculture, the fight against climate change, the prevention of natural and man-made disasters and in the area of science, technology and innovation.
some of the priorities included by the s&d, and which i stress, are, for example: 1) investment for jobs and growth; 2) social dimension and workers' rights and conditions; 3) sustainability; 4) european added value; 5) a proposal for a structure and a proposal for a duration.
it is a strategy that should help europe recover from the crisis and emerge stronger through job creation and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the priorities for the next multiannual financial framework should therefore be grouped around the following themes: knowledge for growth and jobs, natural resource management and sustainable development, cohesion for growth and jobs, citizenship and a global europe.
in this context, i welcome the author of the report's proposal for a seven-year multiannual financial framework, in line with the 2020 strategy, subject to mid-term review in defence, at least: of the maintenance of the eu budget, with particular emphasis on the cap and cohesion policy; of greater flexibility, all the more necessary as the financial constraints are real, and also in favour of greater democratic accountability, so that the european funds are real levers for development projects with sustainable capacity.
− europe 2020 is the european strategy to respond to the new global challenges facing the eu and its various member states, and it is important to structure the economic and financial conditions that will guide its applicability in the period 2014-2021. this report aims to contribute to the definition of the multiannual financial framework (mff) after 2013, by providing for an increase of 5 percentage points in the budgetary envelope compared to the current mff, the maintenance of the funds for cohesion and agriculture and a financial reinforcement of the areas of research, development and innovation, energy and transport.
i am voting in favour of the report because i regard the strategic content as positive and, above all, because the budget is in line with the objectives set out in europe 2020. strengthening economic governance and the importance of cohesion policy are some of the areas i would like to emphasise in the pursuit of a smarter, more sustainable and inclusive europe.
the experience of the practical application of the environmental impact assessment procedure, despite the positive aspects it reveals, shows us that it can and should be improved.
public authorities in the field of the environment have a key role to play here and must be properly equipped to carry it out.
the challenges related to the middle east, libya, iran, terrorism, energy security, climate change and the financial crisis will be best addressed through cooperative relations with russia.
in this case, however, in addition to access to investment and markets, the issue of access to and control of energy sources and flows, as well as other raw materials, particularly rare earths, for which a serious shortage problem has been raised in the eu, is a central concern.
access to and control of energy are therefore fundamental and therefore require access to markets, infrastructure and investment.
− deceptive commercial practices by business directory publishers affect mainly small businesses and therefore have substantial negative consequences for the sustainability and development of economies.
first of all, i would like to say that i expect the european council, especially in the climate of the last few weeks, to take a decision of great responsibility.
we have succeeded in including in this report our main concerns, such as the need to maintain a community cap with adequate financial resources - and i stress this point - we will not accept that financial resources are withdrawn to ensure the implementation of the common agricultural policy, we want a fairer distribution of support between member states and between farmers, the introduction of a new system that is decoupled from production, based on environmental and social criteria, that is, by giving value to employment, targeting the cap to those who are genuinely farmers and creating a specific mechanism for small farmers.
we have put forward proposals for a socially and environmentally sustainable agriculture, a vision incompatible with the unbridled professions of faith in the market and in competitiveness, as this report does.
agriculture provides security of supply of affordable, quality food, essential protection of the environment and balanced use of land, and creates jobs, growth and wealth.
institutionalising the european semester, strengthening the dialogue between the european institutions and national bodies, the role of parliament and the commission in the whole monitoring process, and greater and more effective supervision are ways of achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive european growth.
the proposed framework aims to ensure that member states establish a regulatory framework and draw up national programmes for more responsible management of radioactive waste.
public participation fosters agreement and involvement, leading to the social legitimisation of radioactive waste management strategies.
the european energy and climate strategy must combine economic competitiveness with energy security and environmental concerns.
going beyond the 20% greenhouse gas emission reduction target should aim to reconcile these objectives.
i agree with increasing the reduction effort from 20 to 25%, where the additional 5% corresponds to an increase in energy efficiency.
this approach will make it possible to reconcile the country-specific greenhouse gas emission reduction target with the holistic and global treatment of each industrial sector, avoiding carbon leakage.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
− more than ever, the european union needs a cohesion policy that promotes real convergence and stimulates growth and employment, while also contributing to environmental goals.
i would like to stress the need for an adequate budget for this policy, with greater flexibility and control, so that the european funds can be real levers for development projects with sustainable capacity.
the new protocol aims to strengthen cooperation between the two parties and promote a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy.
− the sustainability of fisheries resources is one of the union's main concerns when concluding or amending fisheries partnership agreements, as is the impact this activity will have on local development.
without responsible exploitation of these resources we will be headed for the extinction of fish species and the increase in marine pollution.
the eu signed a bilateral fisheries agreement with the republic of seychelles in 1987. a protocol had been in force since 2006 and expired on 17 january 2011. the european commission, aware of the importance of renewing this partnership and following the mandate given by the council, negotiated with the government of seychelles a new partnership framework based on the development of a sustainable fisheries policy.
considering that the main economic activity of seychelles is fishing and tourism, which is an agreement that is beneficial both for the eu and for the republic of seychelles due to the creation of jobs (3 000 in seychelles and 760 in europe) and the control of catches by the existence of a multiannual sectoral programme providing for scientific cooperation and the promotion of responsible and sustainable fishing, i am voting in favour of this proposal for a recommendation.
the renewal of this protocol is intended to support the sustainability of the member states' long-distance fishing fleets, a fleet segment which has been particularly affected by the crisis in the fisheries sector in recent years, an objective and concern which we naturally share.
however, there are still some doubts, which we cannot fail to point out, and which are common to other fisheries partnership agreements, as to the effectiveness of the stated objectives of cooperation for the sustainable development of the sector in the third country concerned and as to the sustainability and control of the fishing effort.
i am therefore in favour of this proposal for a recommendation, since it is a protocol that serves both parties and promotes responsible and sustainable fishing.
i support the adoption of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe on the development of relations with a third country in a spirit of cooperation and partnership, with a view to enhancing the sustainable exploitation of resources outside eu waters, while taking into account economic, social and environmental issues.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
cohesion policy should continue to help the poorest regions catch up and adapt their objectives to current and future challenges, delivering smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, as envisaged in the europe 2020 strategy.
− i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the 2007-2013 cohesion policy programmes because i believe that cohesion policy needs to be adapted to the challenges facing europe's regions, supporting smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
cohesion policy must therefore continue to firmly support all european regions, contributing to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
at a time when europe is experiencing an unprecedented economic, financial and social crisis, which is affecting in a very particular way some already more fragile regions, it is essential for the future that cohesion policy continues to play its fundamental role for balanced and sustainable development.
− cohesion policy is a key pillar of eu policies and one of the engines for creating a one-speed europe, as it contributes to improving the socio-economic environment.
- it is important to define a european urban policy which should contribute to the sustainable development of urban areas, taking into account the principle of subsidiarity.
it is important to strengthen the urban dimension in cohesion policy and to promote sustainable urban development, in particular by strengthening and developing instruments to implement the leipzig charter at all levels.
it will therefore be necessary to ensure that urban areas in all regions of the eu, as centres of economic activity, innovation and employment, can benefit from the necessary and appropriate support to be able to face the enormous challenges they face, such as the trend towards sub-urbanisation, the concentration of poverty and unemployment, increasing congestion and pollution, etc.
- i voted in favour of the report on the european urban agenda and its future cohesion policy, because it stresses the importance of networking cities, sharing best practice and adopting innovative solutions, strengthening the urban dimension of the european territorial cooperation objective and more effectively applying the partnership principle in cohesion policy with a view to more sustainable development of cities, particularly with regard to the modernisation of urban infrastructure and transport networks.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment.
in addition, urban areas also face the greatest challenges in terms of efficient management of infrastructure and transport, which have a direct impact on environmental and energy policies.
much emphasis is placed on strengthening the eu urban agenda, developing basic physical infrastructure and its contribution to the economic fabric, energy and environmental sustainability through investments based on technological progress, but people are secondary.
the strengthening of the eu urban agenda, the development of basic physical infrastructure and its contribution to the economic fabric, energy and environmental sustainability, through investments based on technological progress, is advocated, but people are left behind.
given that eu cohesion policy is part of a solidarity framework that encompasses the 27 member states and their 271 regions and aims to end the economic and social disparities within them, it is essential that the next multiannual financial framework (mff) includes an increase in the funds allocated to this objective, as these are regions with serious problems from the point of view of competitiveness but essential for the sustainability of the territory.
the aim of this policy is to remove physical, administrative and regulatory barriers and to reduce the border effect between territories and regions so that they can face together common challenges, whether they are territorial (services, infrastructure, urban planning and spatial planning) or global (globalisation, climate change), or economic or societal.
i also stress that territorial strategies must be directly linked to the guidelines for the trans-european transport networks, the strategies for the integrated maritime policy and the europe 2020 strategy in order to build a smart, sustainable and inclusive european space.
the need not to waste resources, which is becoming more and more felt in the time of serious crisis we are experiencing, recommends that we try to make the best use of the synergies resulting from the means made available by the structural funds and avoid wasting opportunities due to their excessive tightness.
this effort to use the means at our disposal will aim to contribute to improving opportunities for sustainable growth and reducing disparities between regions and facilitating social inclusion and cohesion between regions.
- the current economic situation should be seen as an opportunity to reformulate what can be done more efficiently, with increased legitimacy, and to fight tenaciously against any waste of time and resources.
only with an integrated approach, focused on results and in line with the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, will it be possible to speak of enhanced effectiveness between the various structural funds.
− i voted in favour of the report as i agree that when carrying out its economic reading of the scoreboard under the alert mechanism, the commission should pay particular attention to developments in the real economy, including economic growth, employment and unemployment performance, nominal and real convergence within and outside the euro area, productivity developments and their relevant drivers such as r&d and external/internal investment, as well as developments at sectoral level, including energy, which affect the performance of gdp and the current account.
in it, deficit and debt are no more important than trade surpluses and deficits, employment and unemployment, or the qualitative challenges that can ensure a sustainable growth strategy.
− the rules on budgetary discipline, compliance and enforcement should be strengthened, in particular by giving a much more relevant role to debt levels and developments and to sustainability in general.
i therefore agree with an assessment of the sustainability of public finances, including the level of indebtedness, the debt profile (including duration) and its dynamics.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i hope that the possibility of revising the recommendations in the light of economic developments will also contribute to its success, provided that it does not call into question the fiscal sustainability.
- if we really want to prevent future crises, if we want to create a cohesive and responsible economic union, if we want to pursue a perspective of prevention and correction and if we want to bet on sustainable growth, then, for this package to be complete, it was essential to have this directive.
− this report, by colleague vicky ford, deals with the legislative proposal amending council regulation (ec) no 1467/97 on speeding up and clarifying the implementation of the excessive deficit procedure, included in the economic governance package adopted by the commission on 29 september 2010, and aims to promote macroeconomic stability and the sustainability of public finances towards a stronger and more sustainable eu.
i voted in favour of this legislative amendment because i believe that it is essential for the restoration of citizens' trust in the institutions and for sustainable growth in the eu that these measures are implemented as soon as possible.
i voted in favour of this report because it follows up, in essence, the rapporteur's concerns, particularly as regards the amendments which have been made to the following key points: 1) the general objective of the proposal must relate to the promotion of a high level of employment, the guarantee of adequate social protection and the fight against social exclusion; 2) rules should be established to ensure improvements in national budgetary frameworks in the context of the european semester for policy coordination; (3) the requirements for national budgetary frameworks should ensure not only that the financial planning of the member states is based on realistic forecasts, but also that due attention is paid to the sustainability of their social protection systems, including health and pension systems; and finally, 4) the requirements for national budgetary frameworks should also be designed to encourage member states to achieve the eu's employment and growth objectives.
− this report, by colleague sylvie goulard, is on a legislative proposal, amending council regulation (ec) no 1467/97 on budgetary surveillance in the euro area, included in the economic governance package adopted by the commission on 29 september 2010, and aims to promote macroeconomic stability and the sustainability of public finances in order to achieve a stronger and more sustainable eu.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
− the coordination of the economic policies of the member states, as laid down in the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), implies the observance of the following guiding principles: stable prices, sound public finances and monetary conditions and a sustainable balance of payments.
− two important lessons can be drawn from the recent crisis: the need for sustainable public finances and the urgency of working towards greater coordination of economic policies between member states, with a strong emphasis on prevention.
i stress the vital importance of all eu member states having their public finances in order and the need to adopt increasingly responsible economic policies that ensure sustainability and growth.
− this report, by corien wortmann kool, is on a legislative proposal on economic governance adopted by the commission on 29 september 2010 on the surveillance of budgetary positions and the surveillance and coordination of economic policies, included in the economic governance package adopted by the commission on 29 september 2010, and aimed at promoting macroeconomic stability and the sustainability of public finances.
− the directive in question concerns emissions from agricultural tractors and provides for a quantitative change without altering the environmental objectives previously set out in directive 2000/25/ec.
the rapporteur says that the proposal is intended to enable manufacturers in the union to sell tractors, to overcome the current economic crisis, to find new resources for research and to respect the limits of european environmental legislation, and at the same time to replace obsolete tractors with new ones with less polluting engines.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the compatibility of environmental protection with the protection of agricultural and industrial activities.
− this report by salvatore tatarella is concerned with a proposal for a joint european parliament and council directive amending directive 2000/25/ec as regards the provisions applicable to tractors placed on the market under the flexibility scheme, as regards exhaust emissions.
environmental protection is one of the european union's priorities.
this directive lays down the maximum level of exhaust emissions which each diesel tractor may emit, taking into account its power, and establishes a timetable for the phased reduction of these emissions.
the directive in question concerns emissions from agricultural tractors and proposes a purely quantitative amendment to the directive without altering the environmental protection objectives, operating conditions and period of validity.
the commission proposal lays down specific requirements to ensure that member states establish a national regulatory and organisational framework and draw up appropriate national programmes for spent fuel and radioactive waste, starting with their generation and their disposal.
it is essential to impose a ban on the export of waste and to allow the competent regulatory authority to stop certain activities if their assessment reveals that they are unsafe.
nuclear waste which is not recyclable shall not be exported to third countries.
we need a responsible strategy and appropriate means to eliminate all nuclear waste produced for energy purposes, for research or for medical applications.
- i voted in favour of the report on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste because i believe that a responsible strategy and appropriate means are needed to deal with all nuclear waste, whether from energy production, scientific research or medicine, and taking into account that non-recyclable nuclear waste should not be exported to third countries.
the proposed directive establishes the european legal framework for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste.
we are facing a highly sensitive environmental issue which requires the utmost attention from policy-makers and a serious and rigorous monitoring of the management of this waste.
the dramatic events in fukushima have thrown a sense of urgency and drama on the issue that we should perhaps overcome when discussing energy resources.
the emotional climate that has been generated, and which is understandable, does not seem to me to be the best adviser on matters of this magnitude.
this does not mean, of course, that we should not pursue a policy of strict control and monitoring of everything that involves nuclear energy.
- the problem of the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste is dealt with in the report by mrs romana jordan cizeli, which we have just voted on.
radioactive waste deserves increased attention, not only for the safety of workers handling it, but also for the general public.
we must not forget the environmental consequences of this waste, which is a threat to biodiversity.
i welcome the introduction of a financial mechanism to support the management of such waste in order to eliminate its hazardous nature and the adoption of stricter regulations to prevent infringement of this directive.
− in november 2010, the commission published a proposal for a directive establishing an eu legal framework for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste.
it is proposed that member states establish a national regulatory and organisational framework and draw up appropriate national programmes for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste from generation to disposal.
the commission proposal was welcomed as it was designed in accordance with principles already applied at international level, building on approaches already adopted in the more advanced member states and providing a framework for more responsible management, including: (i) a national framework based on a clear division of duties and responsibilities among stakeholders, (ii) a national programme ensuring frameworks, deadlines and clarity in the nuclear waste decision-making process, and (iii) balanced rules on transparency and information, monitoring and control.
i support the concerns raised about the potentially disastrous effects of human error in the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel, and stress the need for strict standards of training, safety at the workplace and inspection by independent bodies.
− the european strategy for sustainable and inclusive growth remains at the top of its agenda and cannot be ignored in the preparation of the community budget for the financial year 2012. the role of smes is extremely relevant, as they are the ones who will best be able to leverage this type of growth.
i would like to highlight the following points of interest in the mandate given to the trilogue: 1) the appropriations to be provided in the 2012 union budget to finance the eu 2020 strategy, 2) the proposal to revise the current multiannual financial framework (2007-13) to take account of the additional financial needs of the iter project, and 3) financial sustainability and sound management of category 4 in 2012, in particular taking into account the next letter of amendment to address the democratic transition in the southern mediterranean.
− the smart, sustainable and inclusive growth objectives of the eu 2020 strategy should be at the heart of the priorities to be considered in the future 2012 budget.
the document also states that the cap - and i stress this - must be fairer and more equitable, with a more balanced redistribution of financial resources between the countries and a system of direct aid to farmers, which is more equitable and based on environmental and social criteria.
− i voted in favour of the report on the cap to 2020: meeting the challenges of the future in terms of food, natural resources and land, by putting forward proposals to meet new challenges such as food security, environmental protection and climate change, while ensuring a greater territorial balance in rural europe.
− agriculture must be seen as an economic activity generating wealth and development, in the context of the eu2020 policy, and therefore its reform must be designed in the context of the competitiveness and sustainability of european production.
− a sustainable, productive and competitive european agriculture can meet the challenges of food and energy security, climate change, the environment and biodiversity, health and demographic change in the eu.
so more food will have to be produced in a context of higher production costs, enormous volatility in agricultural markets and increasing pressure on natural resources, which means that farmers will have to produce more using less land, less water and less energy.
the commission is continuing to advocate that agriculture be subject to wto rules, thus promoting intensive, export-oriented production models at the expense of locally, socially and environmentally sustainable production and consumption.
- the aim of this report is to decouple the new system of direct aid to farmers from production and to base it on environmental and social criteria.
it called for a system of direct payments which would be graduated according to the size of the agricultural holding and reserved exclusively for active farmers who use agricultural land for production and maintain it in good agricultural and environmental condition.
some of the problems generated by the market are diagnosed, environmental and social issues are given more emphasis.
- the aim of this report is to decouple the new system of direct aid to farmers from production and to base it on environmental and social criteria.
it called for a system of direct payments which would be graduated according to the size of the agricultural holding and reserved exclusively for active farmers who use agricultural land for production and maintain it in good agricultural and environmental condition.
some of the problems generated by the market are diagnosed, environmental and social issues are given more emphasis.
i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that it contains measures to strengthen and ensure the sustainability of the cap after 2013, while contributing to the achievement of the objectives enshrined in the europe 2020 strategy, and takes into account the clear differences between the new and the old member states.
europe says it is committed to sustainable rail and public transport.
mr president, the modernisation and renewal of energy infrastructure is essential to the sustainable and smart growth objectives we seek with strategy 2020 and to our energy security which we need.
to this end, the incentives provided for in the regulatory systems should be improved, in particular those applying to higher risk projects and to more innovative projects such as those being developed in the azores in the field of renewable energies.
the current economic situation further emphasises the need for an innovative and integrated approach to energy issues, taking into account all economic, environmental and social aspects.
it is essential to keep in mind its effects in the medium and long term in order to ensure that all european citizens have access to secure, sustainable and affordable energy.
mr president, it is worth stressing the importance of developing energy production and setting priorities for energy infrastructure by 2020 and beyond.
but because energy is a strategic area requiring high investment, regions and countries with weaker economies have difficulty keeping up with innovation, and therefore full liberalisation in this area could lead to greater social inequalities, greater asymmetries and greater energy poverty.
three measures therefore seem essential to us: maintaining public policies in the field of energy, precisely with the aim of ensuring equal access to it for all; maintaining strong public enterprises and public sectors, which also enable regions and countries in difficulty to innovate, expand and be supported; and ensuring that all people have access to energy, preventing energy poverty and the difficulty for millions of households to access energy and to heat their homes.
the european energy and climate strategy must combine economic competitiveness with energy security and environmental concerns.
to achieve the proposed objectives, it is essential that there is strong investment in energy infrastructure.
the connecting europe facility aims to accelerate the development of infrastructure in the areas of energy, transport and information and communication technologies (ict) with a budget of eur 40 billion for the period 2014-2020. i would draw particular attention to this mechanism for supporting islands and outermost regions such as the canary islands, madeira, the azores and the french outermost regions, whose specific requirements in terms of energy infrastructure must be taken into account.
we therefore believe that liberalization should be stopped and that an urgent assessment should be made of the social and population consequences of liberalization in sectors which are fundamental to social progress, such as transport, energy, water, postal services, telecommunications, health, education and social protection.
there is no good reason why this should not happen, the market and business cannot take precedence over the protection of health and the environment.
i think this is an appropriate choice, given his vast and varied life experience in high-level positions of responsibility and at international level, in business and scientific research, as well as in the political field, where his activity spans two and a half decades, being a member of this parliament since 1994 and president of the european energy forum.
i would stress that the total amount of eur 14 181 901 requested could be important for the retraining of a large part of the 1 356 workers made redundant, with a view to their professional retraining in future-oriented and innovative work areas, which will allow workers to benefit from their technical knowledge and work experience, particularly in the fields of energy technology, construction and landscaping and robotics.
sectors and unemployed workers are changing, raising concern about the potential for european growth and the sustainability of its socioeconomic model.
the proposal we made during the debate on the 2011 budget for the creation of a european programme for employment and sustainable development, allocating 1% of eu gdp, to be supplemented by funds from the member states, with a view to real convergence, promoting the potential of each country, the sustainable use of its resources, and focusing on production and the creation of jobs with rights, is now becoming more urgent.
- i am voting in favour of this report, since the exemption or reduction of customs duties for certain products manufactured in the french overseas departments (fod) is in line with the specific measures needed to remedy the isolation, energy dependence, small size of the markets and low level of exports which characterize these regions.
- in view of the increased difficulties of the outermost regions, which are heavily affected by insularity, remoteness from the major markets, difficult terrain and climate, small area and heavy economic dependence on a small number of products and activities, i support this initiative which allows the application of a differential system of the rate of the maritime concession for certain products manufactured in the four french overseas departments (fdom).
in reality, the existence of permanent handicaps such as insularity, remoteness from the large markets, small size, difficult terrain and climate, economic dependence on a small number of products, seriously hampers the development of these regions and fully justifies the adoption of appropriate measures.
in fact, the existence of permanent handicaps such as insularity, a well-known reality for the portuguese residents of the azores and madeira, combined with the remoteness from the large markets, the small size of the azores, the difficult terrain and climate, and the economic dependence on a small number of products, seriously hampers the development of these regions and fully justifies the adoption of appropriate measures.
i therefore commend the author of this report for her contribution to removing barriers to the free movement of goods and services, defending the interests of businesses and consumers and promoting their access to the market, increasing efficiency and sustainable consumption.
− retail trade plays a very important role in developing a sustainable economy and should continue to promote sustainable consumption patterns by providing easy access to quality products.
the retail sector needs to invest more in developing solutions in the areas of logistics and transport and energy efficiency as well as packaging and waste disposal.
while old barriers remain, new ones are created, to the detriment of the business climate as well as investment and job creation by foreign retailers.
− this proposal provides that member states, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, are to establish measures to limit or even prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territories, based not only on the environmental impact and the maintenance of biodiversity, but also on socioeconomic aspects.
such prohibitions or limitations will be based on grounds other than those covered by the environmental and health risk assessment, which is part of the eu authorisation process.
the report stresses the need for a more preventive and prudent approach to the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (gmos), and also stresses the importance of protecting the environment and defending traditional agriculture and small and medium-sized farmers.
we, for our part, continue to advocate the effective application of the precautionary principle, the withdrawal of gmos already introduced, thus defending health, the environment and farmers.
we continue to advocate the effective application of the precautionary principle, the withdrawal of already introduced species of gmos, thus defending health, the environment and farmers.
it is also based on the development of agricultural practices that offer the best potential for reconciling production with the sustainability of ecosystems, the maintenance of biodiversity, the high cost or the impossibility of applying coexistence measures, the protection of diversity in agricultural production and the guarantee of seed purity.
we should also be able to rely on local or regional environmental grounds and socioeconomic impacts to make such bans.
the prerogative of decision on cultivation now given to the member states, to be used in a rational and balanced way, can be advantageous for some regions with unquestionable specificities, such as the azores, a biodiversity heritage.
not only is it not safe for the health of citizens, according to more than half of europeans, but it is also considered dangerous for the environment.
that directive and regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 already establish a fairly rigorous european framework which, when properly applied, provides a high level of protection of human life and health, of animal health, of the environment and, finally, of the interests of consumers, ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market.
the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to apply these measures on a case-by-case basis, after informing the commission and the member states, in accordance with environmental, socioeconomic and scientific criteria.
the correct application of this directive requires the reinforcement of environmental assessment and monitoring arrangements by efsa, for a systematic study, in line with the advances in biotechnology research.
- i support this report, as we need a more comprehensive and extensive climate policy to mitigate the effects of emissions of polluting gases, especially those of anthropogenic origin, such as hfcs and black carbon.
− the european energy and climate strategy must combine economic competitiveness with energy security and environmental concerns.
going beyond the 20% greenhouse gas emission reduction target should aim to reconcile climate action with competitiveness, economic growth and employment.
i agree with increasing the reduction effort from 20 to 25 per cent if the additional 5 per cent corresponds to an increase in energy efficiency.
this approach will allow the greenhouse gas emission reduction target for a country to be reconciled with a holistic and comprehensive approach for each of the energy-intensive industrial sectors, thus avoiding the serious risk of carbon leakage.
- i voted against the report on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the assessment of the risk of carbon leakage, because it contains insufficient proposals to respond to the challenges of climate change.
i regret that parliament has not been more ambitious, since tackling climate change is good not only for the environment but also for the european economy and job creation.
− at a time when the debate on co2 emissions has become unavoidable and when maintaining the current energy dependence on oil and its derivatives is unsustainable, it is important that more environmentally friendly and equally reliable energy alternatives are found.
it is also essential that europe finds, within the framework of the eu 2020 strategy, innovative ways to promote sustainable and greener growth.
however, at a time of severe economic and financial crisis, not only are the political conditions not in place for increased public investment - which is necessary to increase the target of reducing emissions - but it is also unreasonable to expect that companies, already weakened by the economic situation, will be confronted with overly ambitious targets that impose additional operational difficulties on them.
green growth without undermining competitiveness requires a sustainable and consistent energy policy, the proper functioning of the emission allowance market and the promotion of national projects that contribute to community objectives.
− in order to protect the quality of life of european citizens and the sustainability of the future of the economy, the european union must make every effort to go as far as possible in reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
the threat posed to humanity by climate change is not diminishing, and the impacts of 2°c of warming are worse than previously thought.
i support the challenge to the commission to come forward as soon as possible with proposals to increase europe's climate ambitions and reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by 2020, provided that this is feasible and does not prevent or undermine the competitiveness of our businesses.
i also believe that it is essential to focus on scientific research, technological innovation in decarbonised energy, energy efficiency and the creation of green jobs in order to increase the competitiveness of the european economy.
− this report points to a wound: the eu, claiming to be a leader in the fight against climate change, has set targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions below the lower end of the range recommended by the united nations panel on climate change.
if the eu is responsible for just over 10% of global emissions, as the report says, the truth is that its per capita emissions are about twice those of china or five times those of india, to name just two examples that are often cited.
in this respect, it should be said that the dominant approach to the problem of climate change - which the report takes up - has been truncated in essential respects and, above all, skewed by so-called market solutions and the insistence on emissions trading.
the same number of projects demonstrate the effectiveness of regulation and targeted investment, particularly in terms of environmental impact and protection.
the same applies to the necessary transition to a low-carbon economy.
- this report tackles a central issue in this policy area, putting the finger on the pulse: the eu, claiming to be a leader in the fight against climate change, has set targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions below the lower end of the range recommended by the united nations panel on climate change.
if the eu is responsible for just over 10% of global emissions, as the report says, the truth is that its per capita emissions are about twice those of china or five times those of india, to name just two examples that are often cited.
in this respect, it should be said that the dominant approach to the problem of climate change - which the report takes up - has been truncated in essential respects and, above all, skewed by so-called market solutions and the insistence on emissions trading.
the same number of projects demonstrate the effectiveness of regulation and targeted investment, particularly in terms of environmental impact and protection.
the same applies to the necessary transition to a low-carbon economy.
- the environmental balance is a challenge for mankind today.
a number of advances have already been made; however, there is still a long way to go to achieve a sustainable situation.
projects supported by these funds at regional level contribute to pan-european objectives in areas such as economic growth, research, environmental protection, sustainable energy supply, social cohesion, and even cross-border development.
in the face of the challenges currently posed by the economic, financial and social crisis, cohesion policy should be strengthened in order to ensure greater conditions for supporting and developing disadvantaged regions, which will be decisive in ensuring the effective implementation of the eu 2020 strategy and better ensuring the achievement of the objectives set out, in particular in terms of reducing school drop-out, increasing higher education qualifications, increasing the labour force and employment rates, reducing poverty and increasing local investment in environmental projects.
i voted in favour and stressed the need, as the rapporteur pointed out, to place greater emphasis on the regional contribution to priorities at european level (environmental protection, climate change, energy, transport infrastructure, etc.
in line with the demands always made by the ep, i believe it is imperative, from the outset, that this support be linked to respect for the rights and minimum standards of governance (which is not always the case), strict control by the commission of cases of misappropriation and waste of funds, transparency of public expenditure in the partner country, reduction of poverty in all its dimensions and the use of these resources in a progressive manner and in parallel with an effective political and strategic dialogue.
− regardless of the time and the reason, any budgetary programme of investment or financial support must be preceded by rigor, transparency and a good assessment of its sustainability, along with guarantees of correct and efficient use and application of funds, in the interests of the beneficiaries.
only in this way can we ensure that the european union's foreign and security policy is directed towards the promotion of democracy and human rights, peace and security, which are essential prerequisites for sustainable development.
more systematic efforts are also needed to give greater prominence to measures relating to climate change adaptation and disaster risk reduction.
- i approve this report because it tackles one of the greatest challenges we face in the right way: that of energy sustainability.
we need to be able to provide sustainable energy to all eu citizens, while safeguarding our energy security and self-sufficiency.
− the european energy and climate strategy must combine economic competitiveness with energy security and environmental concerns.
to achieve the proposed objectives, it is essential that there is strong investment in energy infrastructure.
the connecting europe facility aims to accelerate the development of infrastructure in the areas of energy, transport and information and communication technologies (ict) with a budget of eur 40 billion for the period 2014-2020. i would draw particular attention to this mechanism for supporting islands and outermost regions such as the canary islands, madeira, the azores and the french outermost regions, whose specific requirements in terms of energy infrastructure must be taken into account.
− i voted in favour of the report on energy infrastructure priorities for 2020 and beyond, which sets out measures to modernise outdated and inadequately interconnected energy infrastructure with a view to reducing carbon emissions, ensuring security of supply and making energy affordable for consumers.
− the commission's communication on energy infrastructure priorities for 2020 addresses one of the major challenges currently facing the european union: to make energy infrastructure european in scope and to achieve european objectives in renewable energy, emission reduction and security of energy supply.
the communication calls in particular for the creation of european energy highways and the promotion of regional clusters in order to avoid the energy isolation of parts of the union.
these projects should be geared to achieving european energy objectives, such as: completion of the internal energy market, promotion of energy efficiency, integration of markets, improvement of competition and quality of services provided, development of cross-border links, and many others.
- i voted in favour of this report, which presents a detailed analysis of the current state of the european energy framework in terms of infrastructure and encourages initiatives to boost and modernise this sector.
this is an area of crucial importance for ensuring a future europe that is competitive in the global context and for achieving the targets set out in the eu 2020 strategy, in particular with regard to reducing pollution and combating climate change, as well as improving the quality and security of supply of clean and secure energy.
the prevailing view in this report is that the development of energy infrastructure is done within the framework of market economy paradigms.
in this way it is part of the process of pursuing the third package of the internal energy market and is another step in that direction.
its objective is to enable the free exchange of energy on all transmission interconnectors between countries and/or different tariff zones, i.e.
the liberalisation of the energy market.
without prejudice to necessary and desirable measures of cooperation in this field, the development of energy infrastructure should be the responsibility of each member state, taking into account its specific characteristics and needs and the interests of its population, its productive sectors and its economy.
it should have a public framework, management and ownership as a means of ensuring a genuine public service of energy supply.
those which contribute to the completion of the internal energy market, increase integration, competition and market liquidity.
- we cannot accept the development of energy infrastructure on a market basis, which is another step in the continuation of the third package of the internal energy market, as the report says.
its objective is to enable the free exchange of energy on all transmission interconnectors between countries and/or different tariff zones, i.e.
the liberalisation of the energy market.
the development of energy infrastructure should be the responsibility of each member state as public property contributing to a public energy supply service.
those which contribute to the completion of the internal energy market ... increase integration, competition and market liquidity.
the insistence on the policy of liberalization and the private energy market has already proved to be extremely negative, both in the increase in unemployment and the multiplication of technical problems, both in the price of energy for the consumer, both in its consequences for the increase in energy poverty, and in the increase in the escalation of energy dependence in which some member states are putting themselves.
− we are all aware that the main challenges facing us in energy policy are to tackle climate change, to strengthen energy security and self-sufficiency while reducing global energy consumption and fossil fuel imports and dependence, to diversify supplying countries and energy sources, to achieve a competitive internal energy market and to ensure universal access to a sustainable, financially viable, secure and efficient energy supply.
to make this possible, we must make priority investments in energy infrastructure so that in the medium and long term it becomes more efficient and less obsolete.
− this report on energy infrastructure priorities for 2020 and beyond approves, on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the founding of the european coal and steel community, a series of measures to create an integrated european energy network.
europe is far from having achieved the objective of a genuine internal energy market and is at a point where it must speak with one voice to define common short, medium and longterm energy policy objectives.
however, i would point out that these projects are inconceivable without the determined and diligent spirit of the energy companies, which must make every effort to implement them.
the eu's common energy policy, despite its laudable initiatives and continuing efforts, has so far lacked a decidedly european impetus.
- european energy policy has been a cornerstone of the community project since its inception.
then as now, the sustainability and interdependence of energy between the states is an essential contribution to the success of the common space.
the aim is to find a policy guideline which should involve the overall strengthening of interconnection between the energy networks of the various states.
it is important, for example, not only to support energy production but also to promote its sharing and use; at the organizational level, to move towards harmonizing production, transport and marketing licences and authorizations, which are specific to each member state; and finally, to find generous means of financing that will enable the project to succeed.
− the european commission has structured the energy infrastructure priorities for 2020 and beyond, and defined the characteristics needed to create an integrated european energy network.
i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that an integrated european approach to new energy infrastructures is needed to develop common european systems, to reduce the gap between energy supply and demand, to foster greater cooperation with russia, belarus and the baltic states and to contribute to a more rational and sustainable consumption of energy.
i would like to stress the importance attached to the smart cities innovation partnership, the jessica and elena programmes and the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument (enpi) initiatives which will help the eu to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050. at the regional level, the report contributes to the elimination of socioeconomic and environmental disparities between the various member states and enables regions to launch investment projects in various fields.
i also stress the need for the eu to pay particular attention to the outermost regions, which will have difficulty being integrated into the european energy network, and to include the special situation of the energy systems of the ors in the energy infrastructure priorities for 2020.
in writing.
i stress the importance of sustainable development, based on a highly competitive social market economy and geared towards supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, aiming at full employment and social progress, and placing emphasis on environmental quality, combating social exclusion, solidarity between generations, the protection of children's rights and equal access to health care and the promotion of social justice and protection.
but what is missing is the central issue we advocate for the concept of public services - public ownership and public management, with the democratic participation of users in these public services - in areas essential to the well-being of populations, namely health, education, communications, transport, energy, etc.
but what is missing is the central issue we advocate for the concept of public services - public ownership and public management, with democratic participation of users in these public services - in areas essential to the well-being of populations, namely health, education, communications, transport, energy, etc.
this objective can only be achieved through the sustainable development of europe, based on balanced economic growth, a highly competitive social market economy geared to supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, aiming at full employment and social progress, protecting and improving the quality of the environment, combating social exclusion, discrimination and inequalities in access to health care and promoting social justice and protection, as well as equality between men and women, solidarity between generations and protection of the rights of the child.
regardless of the solution found, there are data to be taken for granted: the gics are of substantial economic importance; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be required to provide information on the implementation of the community's environmental policy, and that the information should be requested not only from state authorities but also from associations, social enterprises and even private enterprises, and that the process of setting priorities in this area should be ensured by involving a number of non-state parent entities in order to find the most appropriate solutions to achieve the proposed objectives.
), food security and climate change are key to the success of a genuine sustainable development policy.
only in this way will the mdgs be achieved and sustainable development be promoted effectively and consistently.
- social cohesion and the balanced and sustainable development of the european union require a clear fight against poverty eradication.
the ep already has a position or is currently preparing reports on some of the issues raised in the commission's green paper on eu development policy for inclusive growth and sustainable development.
i am voting in favour of this report because i believe it is essential that the european union, in partnership with the various local and regional actors, identifies the problems of the population, defines development strategies and policies, builds social support networks, promotes economic growth in close conjunction with social and environmental standards and enhances industrial development.
another innovative aspect is the creation of a fund for investment in infrastructure, in future infrastructure such as energy, the electricity grid, telecommunications and clean transport.
the european parliament wants a cap that serves not only farmers but also citizens' expectations in terms of the environment, quality and food safety, and that is also fairer and fully applicable in all member states.
i believe that at this point, however ambitious our goals in the field of defence, energy, food security, the environment, agriculture, the multiannual financial framework may be, if we do not resolve the debt crisis problem in a clear and solid way before the global markets in the european context, we will not have a europe strong enough to deal with the challenges that the polish presidency has set itself.
i welcome the reference to cohesion policy as one of the most important european policies and its link to the eu2020 guidelines for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the european response to the crisis requires a genuine european economic governance that pursues sustainable growth, promotes job creation and develops the social market economy, providing long-term responses with defined objectives with which the member states identify themselves.
− access by all european citizens to efficient broadband networks is a key factor in achieving the europe 2020 strategy's objectives for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
− i voted in favour of the report because i agree that the provision of efficient eu-wide broadband networks is of vital importance for achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in order to foster smart, sustainable, inclusive and territorial cohesion-driven economic growth, improve the employment situation, strengthen europe's competitiveness, facilitate scientific research and innovation and thereby enable all regions, cities, municipalities and sectors of society to benefit from the digital environment, providing them with the opportunity to exploit new digital technologies for public services.
in contrast to this european effort and this recognition of the importance of the digital agenda, i cannot but regret the waste of funds by portugal, which were intended to develop broadband internet infrastructure in rural areas and consolidate operations related to the new challenges.
the provision of efficient eu-wide broadband networks is therefore of vital importance for achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in order to foster smart, sustainable, inclusive and territorial cohesion-driven economic growth, improve the employment situation, strengthen europe's competitiveness, facilitate scientific research and innovation and thereby enable all regions, cities, municipalities and sectors of society to benefit from the digital environment, providing them with the opportunity to exploit new digital technologies for public services.
achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive growth for the european union today is linked to access for all european citizens to efficient broadband networks.
− the europe 2020 strategy has as its main strategic objective to make the eu a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy.
as i have said, it is essential to ensure that citizens have free choice in food products, by providing safe and credible mechanisms for providing full information on products in order to enable a properly informed decision to be taken, and in particular by providing data on the energy value and quantity of lipids, saturated fatty acids, carbohydrates, sugars, proteins and salt, as well as a mandatory list of allergenic substances.
another innovative aspect is the creation of the fund for investments in future infrastructure such as energy, telecommunications and transport.
it is now clearly unable to cope with the economic, social and environmental situation facing the eu, with increased inequalities and therefore also increased cohesion needs.
in other words, it was clearly insufficient to cope with the economic, social and environmental situation facing the eu, with its growing inequalities and growing needs for cohesion.
− the commission work programme for 2012 should, in my view, focus on two key issues: (i) overcoming the debt crisis with the new economic governance rules and (ii) focusing on policies for smart and sustainable growth.
there are no states which can grow and be competitive without sustainable public finances.
these are: public-private partnerships, liberalisation of the energy and transport sectors, maintaining the main options that have been followed in the cap and cfp revisions, strengthening europe's strength through frontex and the criminalisation of immigrants, strengthening europe's military capacity through greater concentration of resources and greater cooperation with the us and nato, deepening deregulation and liberalisation of world trade through pressure for the signing of free trade agreements.
these are: public-private partnerships which have contributed significantly to the increase in public debt in countries with weaker economies such as portugal; the liberalisation of the energy and transport sectors; the maintenance of the main options which have been followed in the cap and cfp revisions; the strengthening of europe through frontex and the criminalisation of immigrants; the strengthening of europe's military capacity through greater concentration of resources and greater cooperation with the usa and nato; and the removal of barriers to trade and investment at world level through the pressure to sign free trade agreements.
− i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree with the suggestions put forward by the european parliament for the commission's work programme for 2012. i would like to stress the need to restore job-creating growth by accelerating the programme to 2020, the need to complete the reform of financial market regulation and the focus on smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, in particular by developing the growth potential of the single market.
it therefore recommends that in the near future measures be taken to meet the union's most pressing challenges: the development of its economy, which requires, from the outset, programmes to maximise employment; the regulation of financial markets, without disregarding the social and environmental balance; and the defence of the fundamental values of the community project.
the root causes of this epidemic, as well as other food safety and public health problems, lie in the intensive production models that have been promoted in the eu, to the detriment of extensive production models that have consumer health, environmental safety and animal welfare at their core.
the root causes of this epidemic, as well as other food safety and public health problems, lie in the intensive production models that have been promoted in the eu, to the detriment of extensive production models that have consumer health, environmental safety and animal welfare at their core.
some of the causes of this epidemic, as well as other food safety and public health problems, stem from intensive production models, to the detriment of extensive production models that have consumer health, environmental safety and animal welfare at their core.
- the participation of women in the world of work, including various responsibilities, including management, in the business environment, is now a central and core point of the struggle for equal rights and opportunities.
because it stresses the need for member states to return to sustainable public finances and growth levels, based on sound public expenditure policies of good quality and fair and effective revenue collection.
on the other hand, the issuance of eurobonds, a financial transaction tax, stronger coordination of national fiscal policies and the implementation of a transparent audit of public debt, among other measures, could help the eu emerge from the crisis stronger and with more sustainable growth.
in june 2010, despite the conclusions reached and the ongoing crisis, the european parliament decided to extend the mandate of cris until the end of july 2011. the purpose of the extension of the mandate of cris was to develop recommendations for a sustainable eu growth model, complementing the cris recommendations already endorsed by the european parliament, and to establish mechanisms and develop coordinated policies to exit the public debt crisis in the member states and to prevent its recurrence by addressing the underlying causes, while encouraging strong and sustainable growth and employment.
- the economic and financial stability of the community area is, to a large extent, the basis for the sustainability of the joint project.
for these reasons, the extension of the mandate of the committee is to be welcomed, so that it can continue its work of identifying the causes of the recent events and drawing up proposals to ensure the long-term sustainability of the community project, in conjunction with the other national institutions and bodies.
i also stress that the eu's and the various european countries' budgets must be geared to pursuing the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in order to strengthen the competitiveness, sustainability and leadership of the european economy in the global context.
the european commission is already determined to improve the environment in which future european elections take place.
this, as you can see, poses serious problems for the sustainability of the system.
− the process of democratization in russia needs to be deepened and matured in order to provide an environment of trust and stability in relations with the european union, which is absolutely fundamental for the better development of stronger, lasting and sustainable bilateral relations.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i also believe that increasing food security, creating sustainable production and supply systems and minimising food waste remain crucial in the long term.
on the contrary, what we are facing is the destruction and relocation of productive activities and jobs, the attack on social and labour rights, the ruin of millions of small producers and many small and mediumsized enterprises, but also the degradation of the environment and natural resources.
for the gue/ngl group i too would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on his work in describing the current raw material needs of european industry, the redundancy, and also on his emphasis on the environmental risks associated with it and on recycling strategies.
the commission is also proposing to ensure that the european union's energy policy is based on a common energy policy, and that the european union's energy policy is based on a common energy policy.
the commission is also proposing to ensure that the european union's energy policy is based on a common energy policy, and that the european union's energy policy is based on a common energy policy.
finally, we also stress the importance of developing, properly using and recycling materials as fully as possible, either because of the shortage of many primary raw materials, or to generate secondary sources, or to reduce negative impacts at the end of life and avoid polluting waste, or to create indigenous industrial opportunities.
any strategy on pm should ultimately focus on increasing innovation in the way european industries use pm, because this will make a significant contribution to our competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply.
in addition to an industrial innovation strategy aimed at reducing resource consumption and increasing recycling, and in addition to the sustainable internal potential it possesses, the eu will of course have to continue to rely on third countries for its pms.
madam president, the rapporteur is right to refer to the ecological specificities of the black sea region, in addition to the natural socioeconomic specificities that also exist.
we have always maintained that it is through local management that takes account of these specificities, involving local people and communities, that the objectives of a fisheries policy can best be achieved: ensuring the public supply of fish to the population, promoting the development of coastal communities, employment and improving the living conditions of fishermen in a framework of resource sustainability.
we also follow up on several of the suggestions, from increased cooperation between riverine states to the importance of multiannual management plans and the increase in scientific knowledge to support the necessary ecosystem approach to fisheries management.
it is essential that there are very clear rules in the defence of the environment, the public interest, the workers involved, the neighbouring populations, and that they are guaranteed to be complied with.
the environmental disaster in the gulf of mexico, the result of a colossal oil spill into the sea, has raised concerns about the risks, responsibilities and legislation governing oil exploration and extraction.
the report on eu action in the field of oil exploration and extraction in europe reflects the eu's responsibility to ensure the protection of its coasts and its capacity to respond to such environmental disasters.
i would like to highlight the role of the european maritime safety agency, based in lisbon, which provides technical support and assistance in the field of maritime safety and protection in the area of pollution caused by ships.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of national experts in the field of the environment.
- this report aims at the repeal of a number of obsolete legal acts, with the aim of improving the quality and simplification of existing legislation, creating a better and clearer legislative environment.
the main objective of such repeals of certain legal acts is to improve the quality of legislation and to simplify existing legislation with a view to creating a better and clearer legislative environment for businesses.
− the aim of this report is to repeal a number of obsolete legal acts, with the aim of improving and simplifying existing legislation, creating a better and clearer legislative environment for businesses.
the proposal is driven by the european union's political commitment to simplify and improve the quality of existing legislation with a view to creating a better and clearer legislative environment for the implementation of the final phase of the customs union which has eliminated customs duties for goods originating in turkey.
however, approval of public and private projects which may have a significant impact on the environment should only be granted after an assessment of the significant effects which these projects may have on the environment.
− green growth without compromising competitiveness requires a sustainable and consistent environmental policy, which requires a uniform assessment of the environmental impact of both public and private projects.
i therefore vote in favour of the commission's proposal for the codification of legislation on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment.
- at its meeting on 14 and 15 december, the european parliament adopted the report by mr sajjad karim, following a proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment (consolidated text).
since the proposal is simply a codification of council directive 85/337/eec of 27 june 1985 on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment, i am voting in favour of this proposal, knowing that it will result in a significant improvement in administrative procedures.
- article 191 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states that the union's policy on the environment shall aim at achieving a high level of protection and that its action shall be based on the principles of precaution and preventive action.
i am voting in favour of this proposal for a directive because i agree with the harmonization of the general principles for the evaluation of public and private projects in the field of the environment.
member states should also be free to set thresholds and criteria to exclude from the assessment projects which are not significant in terms of their environmental impact.
in accordance with article 6 of the aarhus convention, i consider it extremely positive that citizens are involved in the decision-making process on projects with an environmental impact, increasing the involvement of local communities and their consequent accountability.
however, it is important to establish rules and procedures for their active participation, and it is also important to define an environmental culture that reconciles the development of the regions with the protection of nature.
− the galileo programme is of strategic importance for the independence of the union in terms of satellite navigation and location and dating services and will make a significant contribution to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy and to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
- i voted in favour of this agreement on tropical forests, which, according to oecd assessments, has been destroying annually an area of originally forested land corresponding to the area of greece, indisputably affecting irreplaceable biodiversity, threatening it with extinction and aggravating the risk of global warming.
− for many centuries, tropical timber has been the object of the unbridled greed of those who seek to enrich themselves through the trafficking of this type of material, taking advantage of its quality and exoticism, without taking care to ensure the sustainability of the forest species they plunder.
while biodiversity has been greatly reduced, the people of the countries from which these rare woods originate receive nothing from their trade and often see their livelihoods jeopardized by the activities of those who profit illegally from this trade.
the oecd data show that the annual destruction of tropical forest areas is equivalent to the area of greece, which poses a threat to biodiversity and aggravates the risk of global warming.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
the agreement aims to promote the sustainable management of tropical timber-producing forests by creating a framework for consultation, international cooperation and policy-making among all members with regard to all relevant aspects of the global timber economy.
legitimate doubts are raised as to the compatibility of sustainable management with the promotion of the expansion and diversification of international trade in tropical timber, also mentioned in the agreement.
the agreement aims to promote the sustainable management of tropical timber-producing forests by creating a framework for consultation, international cooperation and policy-making among all members with regard to all relevant aspects of the global timber economy.
naturally, doubts may arise as to the compatibility of sustainable management with the promotion of the expansion and diversification of international trade in tropical timber, also mentioned in the agreement.
− deforestation and forest degradation are the main causes of biodiversity loss.
the penalties should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive and may take the form of fines proportionate to the environmental damage, the value of the timber and timber products concerned and the fiscal and economic losses resulting from the infringement, confiscation of the timber and timber products concerned or immediate suspension of the authorisation to carry out trading activities.
- according to oecd estimates, an area of forest equivalent to the size of greece is being destroyed annually, placing the irreplaceable biodiversity at risk of extinction and increasing the risk of global warming.
− every year, an area of forest equivalent to the area of greece is destroyed worldwide, posing a major threat to biodiversity, exacerbating global warming and accentuating social inequalities on the planet.
this and other measures in the agreement and other decisions of the european institutions are aimed at preventing the excessive exploitation and illegal logging which continue to be widely practised and which constitute a serious environmental and social problem.
i cannot, however, fail to stress the importance of further measures for a truly sustainable management of forests, necessarily including fairer trade rules and trade relations.
- i voted in favour of the report on the convention on the conservation and management of high seas fishery resources in the south pacific ocean because i support the conclusion of this convention, which should contribute to the protection of biodiversity, in particular through good fishing practices.
i hope that the situation will be reversed and that the convention can enter into force in order to ensure the sustainability and good management of fisheries resources in the south pacific.
to fill this gap and ensure the protection of biodiversity, the countries of the region (australia, chile and new zealand) are consulting on the creation of a south pacific regional fisheries management organisation (sprfmo).
we consider it important that there be coordination and cooperation in the management of common water bodies - seas and oceans - in order to ensure the sustainability of fishing activities, the interests of the populations and communities dependent on them and, at the same time, to ensure the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing.
for these reasons, we welcome the establishment of the south pacific regional fisheries management organisation (sprfmo), which aims to establish international cooperation in the fields of conservation and management of fisheries other than highly migratory fisheries and the protection of marine biodiversity in the high seas of the south pacific ocean, in accordance with international law and best practice.
- the report is based on the principle that coordination and management of the common seas is important in order to ensure sustainable fisheries management, defend the interests of fleets and ensure the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing.
we welcome the establishment of the south pacific regional fisheries management organisation (sprfmo), which aims to establish international cooperation in the fields of conservation and management of fisheries other than highly migratory fisheries and the protection of marine biodiversity in the high seas of the south pacific ocean, in accordance with international law and best practice.
to fill this gap, and given that fishing is carried out both in the eez and in the high seas, the governments of australia, chile and new zealand decided to launch in 2006 a consultation process towards the establishment of the south pacific regional fisheries management organisation (sprfmo), with the aim of cooperating to address the management and conservation gaps of non-highly migratory species and to ensure the protection of biodiversity in the high seas of the south pacific.
the eu must be present at all rfmos to defend its priorities in terms of sustainable fisheries management and the defence of the interests of its fleet, and i believe that this document should be approved by this parliament.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
fuel cell and hydrogen (pch) technologies are promising long-term energy options that can be used in all sectors of the economy, offering a wide range of benefits for energy security, transport, the environment and resource efficiency.
they are expected to play a key role in the eu's transition to a low-carbon society and to help achieve the target of reducing greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by more than 85% by 2050. despite the financial crisis, the eu's major competitors in this field (the united states, japan, south korea and china) continue to make great efforts to overcome these obstacles through rtd programmes, policy measures and marketing exercises.
the application of this technology is unquestionable in a wide variety of areas, notably in information technology and transport, and has made considerable progress in recent years, contributing to the reduction of co2 emissions.
the commission is currently developing a european strategic energy technology plan (set plan) to create a more sustainable energy system.
- as regards amendments to a council regulation on the setting-up of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking, i intend to vote in favour of the european parliament's legislative resolution for the following reasons: (a) the policy of promoting research in fuel and hydrogen cells was not having the desired effect and its weaknesses were identified, and it was necessary to improve it - this was the aim of the report; (b) it is commonly accepted that the study of alternatives to the oil economy is important, and that these alternatives are required to respond to economic, social and environmental crises.
− the fuel cells and hydrogen company is very important to meet the challenge of increasing the production of environmentally friendly energy.
it's a company that's only been in operation for two years and it's aiming to be able to produce clean, low-cost energy.
fuel cell and hydrogen technologies are promising long-term energy options that can be used in all sectors of the economy, offering benefits for energy security and efficiency, transport, the environment.
the sustainability of social security financing systems is of course a matter for discussion.
as europe's population ages, the sustainability of pensions is a major challenge in the face of low birth rates, a shrinking labour force and a growing number of pensioners who are in good health and reaching old age.
the money thus obtained could play an important role in defending and promoting the national production of each member state and in creating jobs, as well as in overcoming the food production problem that countries like portugal have, in promoting local/traditional markets, in the sustainable and productive occupation of the entire territory.
small and mediumsized farmers and family farming are being stifled by rising energy prices, by rising production costs and by a producer price policy that favours large distribution companies at the expense of fair value and compensation for those who produce food.
the money thus obtained could play an important role in defending and promoting the national production of each member state and in creating jobs, as well as in overcoming the problem of food production that countries like portugal have, in promoting local/traditional markets, in the sustainable and productive occupation of the entire territory.
we know how small and mediumsized farmers and family farming are being stifled by rising energy prices, by rising production costs and by a policy of producer prices which favours large distribution companies at the expense of fair value and compensation for those who produce food.
given that these agencies mainly support industrial activities with harmful effects on the environment, in particular due to the production of co2, and that, according to the world bank, the effects on poverty reduction are negligible, i agree with the rapporteur's position that the aces should contribute to the achievement of eu policies and objectives, and there is therefore no need to revise the oecd convention.
ultimately, to be able to respond to the raw materials challenge, the eu needs a comprehensive and integrated strategy focusing on short and long-term measures that can be implemented at both domestic and international level, especially with regard to raw materials, in order to adequately address the triple challenge of ensuring future competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply.
− this report focuses mainly on issues such as access to strategic raw materials and resource efficiency, recycling and substitution of raw materials, including efficient waste management as a way to increase industrial competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply in europe.
the extraction of oil, particularly in countries considered to be developing, is considered a rather complicated problem, not only to avoid exploitation of these countries by the states considered to be rich, but above all for social and environmental reasons.
i am therefore aware that access to raw materials is essential to the well-being of european citizens, and i therefore vote in favour of this report on an effective strategy for europe in the field of raw materials, which recommends that, wherever possible, these materials should be recovered and reused, but also that their extraction should be compatible with the environment, in order to minimise climate change.
but it is also necessary that their exploitation be carried out in compliance with social and environmental rules, in addition to respect for the sovereignty and interests of the states and peoples where these resources exist, including in the development of cooperation with third producing countries, in particular africa, avoiding any new forms of colonialism.
at the heart of this strategy should be an industrial innovation strategy based on resource efficiency and recycling, the only measures that adequately address the triple challenge of ensuring future competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply.
the need to import a number of products which are essential to achieving energy sustainability in the community has created difficulties for the import of products.
− a sustainable, efficient and competitive european industrial policy, as expressed in the eu2020 strategy, requires a concerted policy on raw materials.
this report focuses mainly on access to strategic raw materials, in particular rare earth elements, with a dimension on efficiency, reduction of resources used, recycling, reuse and waste management.
the report also calls for the creation of a european innovation partnership for raw materials, which would include an internal and external dimension of raw materials' sustainability.
- i voted in favour of the report on the present and future management of fisheries in the black sea because it contains proposals which should make it possible to achieve tangible results in terms of protecting the livelihoods of fishermen and guaranteeing the economic development of coastal areas and protecting the ecological balance and fisheries resources.
since there is no coordinated action in this region among all the fisheries actors, institutionalised coordination could ensure tangible results in terms of protecting fishermen's livelihoods, ensuring the economic development of coastal areas and protecting the ecological balance and fishery resources in the basin.
the creation of such an organisation will affirm the eu's commitment to the region in terms of sustainable fisheries development, as it will have long-term beneficial effects for all black sea states.
the specific nature of the black sea's biodiversity also requires a common approach to the management of this unique basin.
this argument is supported by scientific research, which shows that institutionalised cooperation is vital for the sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources in the context of sustainable development.
it is important to stress that the creation of such an organisation will affirm the eu's commitment in the region in terms of sustainable fisheries development, as it will have long-term beneficial effects for all black sea states.
the various states concerned must in fact strengthen cooperation and dialogue in order to find joint solutions to ensure a stable, sustainable and adapted fisheries sector in the black sea basin, the protection of the ecological balance and fisheries resources in the region and a more effective fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
the environmental disaster in the gulf of mexico, the result of a colossal oil spill into the sea, has raised concerns about the risks, responsibilities and legislation governing oil exploration and extraction.
the report to be voted on tomorrow reflects the eu's responsibility to ensure the protection of its coasts and its capacity to respond to such environmental disasters.
i would like to highlight the role of the european maritime safety agency, based in lisbon, which provides technical support and assistance in the field of maritime safety and protection in the area of pollution caused by ships.
it is also important to ensure that the polluter pays principle applies to all damage to the marine environment and biodiversity and that oil and gas companies can be held liable for any environmental damage.
the recent environmental disasters the gulf of mexico oil spill (one of the largest environmental disasters ever and the largest oil spill in us history) in april 2010 (bp) and the north sea oil spill in august 2011 (shell) have put the debate on the safety conditions in which oil and gas extraction companies operate on the agenda.
however, safety measures for workers and construction standards must be guaranteed to prevent fuel leakage that could harm the environment.
it is therefore essential that there is a simplified legal framework covering drilling operations and helping to solve the problems of environmental pollution.
while i recognize that this is a rather complex matter, i welcome the presentation of this report, which i voted in favour of, as it safeguards the environmental aspects and the safety of workers in this activity, putting the public interest above the private interest.
it is essential to define very clear rules to protect the environment, the public interest, the workers involved and the neighbouring populations.
but it is essential that there be very clear rules in the defence of the environment, the public interest, the workers involved, the neighbouring populations.
it also considers that operators should be required to prove that they have sufficient financial capacity to ensure that environmental damage caused by their activity, including those that may be caused by high impact and low probability incidents, is compensated.
however, although it is not the subject of the report, i stress the need to rethink energy sources.
i believe that the provisions of this report are of great importance in order to discuss in the member states the safety measures for offshore oil and gas exploration at all levels in order to avoid ecological disasters, since these do not respect the land or sea borders of any state.
− national supplies of oil and natural gas make an important contribution to energy consumption and to the eu's energy security.
- the adoption of safety measures for offshore oil and gas exploration is a priority in environmental protection.
the risks involved in any extraction of these raw materials can and must be controlled in order to ensure not only the energy sustainability of europe but also the protection of environmental resources.
- articles 191 and 194 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union state that member states are responsible for determining the conditions for exploiting their energy resources and must act on the basis of preventive action to safeguard the environment and energy security.
all phases of work, from the start of operations to decommissioning, must have a rigorous and structured safety, health and environmental plan to ensure the maintenance of the marine ecosystem.
in the case of women, the sacrifices may be even greater, for they may have to overcome discrimination in a traditionally male environment.
this will not only encourage women to enter the business world but also ensure that they move on an equal footing in an environment where there can be no room for sex discrimination.
mr president, commissioner, minister, transparency is a prerequisite for further integration of the eu energy market.
the regulation adopted today is a step towards completing the internal energy market by 2014. the regulation establishes a database of transactions in the wholesale energy market and the creation of a european register of market participants, avoiding unfair practices.
unfair practices in the wholesale energy market affect price levels and harm consumers.
this regulation is therefore fundamental to the proper functioning of the internal market and to consumer and investor confidence in the internal energy market.
i would also like to stress the fundamental importance of this report, mr president, mr commissioner, in terms of the transparency of the european energy market.
and i just want to say that this is a central area of cooperation on a european level if we safeguard some of the dimensions that are fundamental, among them preventing liberalisation from turning into an increase in energy prices for citizens, guaranteeing equal access and being careful about sanctions, as has already been mentioned by many colleagues.
madam president, as we have seen in this debate, there are a number of man-made atmospheric emissions which are likely to interfere with the earth's climate.
but the european union's approach to the problem of climate change has been focused almost exclusively, as we know, on carbon dioxide.
this is not unrelated to the fact that this was the compound chosen for the assembly of a scheme to generate billions of fictitious financial assets through the so-called carbon market.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
in this case as in the previous ones, i hope that the mobilisation of the fund will make a real contribution to the reintegration of workers in difficulty and will promote the creation of more sustainable jobs.
- i support this report because it not only prohibits the manipulation of eu energy markets, but also defines them and puts in place control mechanisms and sanctions to deter such market abuse.
as foreseen in this report, a strong role must be given to acer (the agency for the cooperation of european energy regulators) in monitoring markets, monitoring and helping to enforce regulation by national regulatory authorities, and a registration system for market participants, ensuring that sanctions take into account the harm caused to consumers by market abuse.
− energy market transparency is an essential condition for further integration of the eu energy market, which is expected to bring considerable benefits to consumers.
unfair practices in the wholesale energy market can cause high price volatility, lead to higher energy prices for final consumers and undermine the confidence of potential investors in energy infrastructure projects.
the present report, which i have supported, welcomes the commission's proposal, but proposes some improvements, in particular: this regulation should also cover co2 markets under the community emission allowance scheme; the need for the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators to be equipped with sufficient financial and human resources and to be able to set up liaison offices located in the vicinity of the main trading platforms.
− transparency is a prerequisite for further integration of the eu energy market.
the regulation adopted today is a step towards completing the internal energy market by 2014. the regulation establishes a database of wholesale energy transactions and the creation of a european register of market participants to prevent unfair practices.
unfair practices in the wholesale energy market affect price levels and harm consumers.
the lack of transparency can lead to a price increase for final consumers and can undermine the confidence of potential investors in energy infrastructure projects.
- i voted in favour of this report because i consider it absolutely essential to monitor european energy markets effectively.
the enhanced role of acer (european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators) based in ljubljana, slovenia, in particular with regard to a truly effective coordination of the network of regulators of the member states and the application of the existing legal framework, will bring greater transparency and efficiency to the markets, which will translate into objective economic gains.
- i voted in favour of the report on the integrity and transparency of the energy market because it contains important proposals to prevent and punish any attempts at market abuse and speculation in the energy sector, with a view to protecting the interests and rights of consumers.
the proposal for a regulation (remit regulation on the integrity and transparency of energy markets) establishes a legal framework at eu level to prevent market abuse and manipulation in the energy (gas and electricity) sector.
in view of the strategic importance of the energy market and the tendency to abuse it, the commission's proposal and its sectoral approach to prevent market abuse are welcome.
the structure of the proposal and the mechanisms proposed for implementing the regulation are, as the rapporteur says, appropriate for regulating a market of increasing importance and which is intended to move towards the integration of national energy markets into a single european market.
- this report, by mr jorgo chatzimarkakis, focuses on a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the integrity and transparency of energy markets.
the energy market integrity and transparency regulation (remit) will apply to contracts for the production, supply and transport of natural gas and electricity and aims to prevent abuse in wholesale energy markets, thereby protecting consumers.
the newly created agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acre) will play a key role in monitoring these markets in partnership with the regulatory authorities of the member states and will report annually to the european commission.
energy costs, both for individuals and for the business sector, represent a substantial share of expenditure.
- first, they liberalized the energy sector.
the european parliament, which supported this option, now wants to pass new rules to prevent abuse in wholesale energy markets and, it is said, to protect consumers.
this regulation on the integrity and transparency of energy markets (remit) will apply to trade in wholesale energy products, in particular to contracts and derivatives relating to the production, supply and transport of natural gas and electricity.
they now say that energy must remain accessible to all, as it is a key sector for the economy.
but they hide the fact that the liberalization they have promoted has led to serious problems and that energy poverty is a sad reality for consumers, smes have seen their production costs rise significantly, for which there are still no answers.
- after liberalizing the energy sector with all the known consequences, including the formation of private monopolies, high prices and a lack of consumer awareness, the european parliament approves new rules to prevent abuse in wholesale energy markets and protect consumers, which are now universally recognised as necessary.
this regulation on the integrity and transparency of energy markets (remit) will apply to trade in wholesale energy products, in particular to contracts and derivatives relating to the production, supply and transport of natural gas and electricity.
of course, they now say that energy must remain affordable for all, because it is a key sector for the economy.
but they cannot hide the fact that price liberalisation has led to a serious problem and that energy poverty is increasingly a sad reality for consumers and micro, small and mediumsized enterprises, for which there are still no answers.
− this proposal for a regulation (remit energy market integrity and transparency regulation) establishes a legal framework at eu level to prevent market abuse and manipulation in the energy (gas and electricity) sector.
with the adoption of this report we are concerned about consumer protection in the energy market.
the energy market cannot be based on privileged information or dominated by monopolies.
i therefore welcome the adoption of this regulation, which will contribute to the creation of an internal energy market.
the proposal for a regulation (remit regulation on the integrity and transparency of energy markets) establishes a legal framework at eu level to prevent market abuse and manipulation in the energy (gas and electricity) sector.
this report was largely adopted by consensus in the committee on industry, research and energy.
the commission proposal and its sectoral approach focusing on the energy sector, with a view to avoiding market abuse, was welcomed by the ep.
i also agree with the structure of the proposal and the mechanisms suggested for implementing the regulation, as well as with the various improvements put forward by the ep and reflected in the draft report, in particular the strengthening of the role of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, which plays a key role in implementing this regulation and should therefore be provided with sufficient financial and human resources and be able to set up liaison offices located in the vicinity of the main trading platforms.
the proposal for a regulation in question concerns the wholesale energy market.
the electricity and gas market, particularly as regards the wholesale market, should be placed within an appropriate legislative framework for energy issues.
only in this way will it be possible to prevent abuse and manipulation in the energy sector and to ensure fair, competitive and transparent prices for final consumers.
the newly created agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) is responsible for monitoring the information provided by the member states and reporting it to the european commission.
a system of authorisations for energy operators, valid throughout the eu and mandatory for transactions above a certain value, which allows the withdrawal of authorisation in the event of non-compliance with this regulation, is essential for the success of this measure.
this report, which is specific to the wholesale electricity and gas sector, is crucial for the implementation of a common energy policy for the 27. it is urgent to create a sustainable, competitive and competitive market which at the same time reduces the eu's dependence on the outside world.
a more efficient europe implies the active participation of citizens, who must be made aware of the need to lodge complaints when treaties are not respected, particularly in the area of the environment, and of all violations of fundamental rights, in order to avoid harmful consequences for citizens.
- i voted in favour of this resolution because the doha round was launched in 2001 with the aim of creating new market opportunities, strengthening the rules on multilateral trade and correcting the current imbalances in the trading system, placing trade at the service of sustainable development, with particular emphasis on the economic integration of developing countries and in particular the least developed countries (ldcs), in the belief that a multilateral system, based on fairer and more equitable rules, can contribute to fair and free trade at the service of the development of all continents.
− the doha round, launched in 2001, aimed to create new market opportunities, strengthen multilateral trade rules and correct the current imbalances in the trading system, placing it at the service of sustainable development, so as to contribute to fair and free trade that would enhance the development of the five continents.
the fallacy of the fairer distribution of the benefits of globalisation that this organisation could provide is finally crumbling in the face of the obvious consequences of free trade: the destruction and relocation of productive activities and jobs, the attack on social and labour rights, the degradation of the environment and natural resources.
the obvious consequences of free trade are well known: the destruction and relocation of productive activities and jobs, the attack on social and labour rights, the degradation of the environment and natural resources.
− the doha round was launched in 2001 with the aim of creating new market opportunities, strengthening the rules on multilateral trade and correcting the current imbalances in the trading system, placing trade at the service of sustainable development, with a particular emphasis on the economic integration of developing countries and in particular the least developed countries (ldcs), in the belief that a multilateral system, based on fairer and more equitable rules, can contribute to fair and free trade at the service of the development of all continents.
these objectives were to create new market opportunities, strengthen the rules on multilateral trade and correct the current imbalances in the trading system, placing trade at the service of sustainable development, with particular emphasis on the economic integration of developing countries and in particular the least developed countries, in the belief that a multilateral system, based on fairer and more equitable rules, can contribute to fair and free trade at the service of the development of all continents.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the smart regulation agenda has been integrated into the eu 2020 strategy, which aims to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth by 2020, notably through the reduction of administrative burdens on businesses, which can be achieved by improving the quality and simplifying current eu legislation.
in times of economic crisis, it is up to policy-makers to find all possible ways of rationalising costs, combating waste, while never neglecting quality.
it is no coincidence that the topics most frequently addressed are those relating to the environment, fundamental rights, justice and the internal market.
the annual statistics show that the majority of citizens turn to parliament for help on issues relating to the environment, fundamental rights, justice and the internal market.
the annual statistics show that the majority of citizens turn to parliament for help on issues relating to the environment, fundamental rights, justice and the internal market.
but above all, it is essential that profound changes are made to the current policies that have led to this situation, ensuring jobs with rights, quality public services, dignified reforms and minimum conditions to pay for decent housing, including water, energy and sanitation.
but above all, it is essential that there be changes in current policies, particularly in the economic, financial and social areas, to ensure employment with rights, quality public services, dignified reforms and the ability to pay for decent housing, including water, energy, sanitation, etc.
in an effort to mitigate the consequences of climate change, european policy in this area has focused on reducing co2 emissions in the long term.
eu policy lacks a comprehensive approach in the area of climate-relevant anthropogenic emissions.
to complement our efforts against climate change.
relevant policy options include slowing down the production and consumption of hydrofluorocarbons with global warming potential, reducing black carbon emissions, paying particular attention to emissions affecting snow and ice regions, including the arctic, greenland and tibetan himalayan glaciers, and reducing pollutant gases that lead to the formation of tropical ozone.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on a comprehensive approach to climate-relevant non-anthropogenic co2 emissions, which should take into account all sources, as well as all existing global warming mitigation options, such as reducing the production and consumption of hydrochlorofluorocarbons, reducing black carbon emissions and gases that lead to the formation of tropospheric ozone.
− at a time when the debate on greenhouse gas emissions has become unavoidable and when maintaining the current energy dependence on oil and its derivatives is unsustainable, it is important that more environmentally friendly and equally reliable energy alternatives are found.
it is also essential that europe finds, within the eu2020 strategy, innovative ways to promote sustainable and greener growth.
green growth without undermining competitiveness requires a sustainable and consistent energy policy, the proper functioning of the emission allowance market and the promotion of national projects that contribute to community objectives.
- in recent times we have seen several atmospheric disasters, such as the fukushima tsunami, cyclones in the caribbean sea, long periods of drought on the african continent which cause thousands of victims due to malnutrition, etc.
situations like these force us to reflect on the causes of climate change on a global scale.
in fact, there is a lack of integrated policies to control emissions of polluting gases such as co2, chlorofluorocarbons, black carbon, etc., both at the level of the european union and at the level of the member states.
if we do not take strong measures, such as the directive on the reduction of emissions from air conditioning, we will hardly be able to meet the objectives set for 2050. in the light of the above, i welcome the commission's intention to review other regulations and i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution, tabled following a question for oral answer on a comprehensive approach to climate-relevant anthropogenic co2 emissions, drawn up by mr richard seeber and mr theodoros skylakakis on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the resolution addresses the relevant problem of anthropogenic emissions of gases into the atmosphere, other than carbon dioxide, which are likely to interfere with the earth's climate.
the almost exclusive focus on carbon dioxide has helped to obscure, both in public perception and at the level of policy initiative, the reality that other compounds can contribute to the so-called greenhouse effect.
this attention is certainly instrumental in enabling so-called market solutions, such as the carbon market, and feeding the powerful interests that are emerging to dominate this business further.
methane (ch4), nitrous oxide (n2o), hydrofluorocarbons (hfcs), perfluorocarbons (pfcs), sulphur hexafluoride (sf6), halogenated hydrocarbons with a high global warming potential, black carbon (fuel) are some of these pollutants.
but the truth is that there are many human-made atmospheric emissions that can interfere with the earth's climate, and the european union's approach to climate change has been focused almost exclusively on carbon dioxide.
this is not unrelated to the fact that this compound was chosen for the assembly of a scheme to generate billions of fictitious financial assets through the so-called carbon market.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the environmental protection of the environment, such as the introduction of a new environmental protection law, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, and the introduction of a new environmental policy.
− climate policies at european and international level have been focusing on long-term co2 emission reductions through, for example, increased energy efficiency, renewable energy sources and other low-carbon strategies.
a comprehensive european climate policy, which can benefit from the weighting of all existing sources of warming and mitigation options, as well as from taking into account co2 emission reductions, should focus on strategies that allow for the fastest possible climate response.
the eu should therefore promote existing technologies that drastically reduce black carbon emissions by adopting regulations that ban forest fires and provide for regular and rigorous testing of vehicle emissions.
- i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution in which parliament points out to the european commission, among other things, that rapid regulatory strategies are available to reduce the production and consumption of hydrochlorofluorocarbons and to reduce emissions of black carbon and of the gases which lead to the formation of tropospheric ozone.
these strategies can be started within 2-3 years and, to a large extent, can be implemented within 5-10 years, which may produce the desired climate reaction within decades or sooner, in particular for some of the hydrofluorocarbons, at a public price of only 5 to 10 cents per tonne, whereas the carbon price currently exceeds 13 euros per tonne.
i therefore vote in favour of these recommendations, which are aimed at supporting the reforms under way in this country, while at the same time calling for respect for human rights, the adoption of anti-discrimination legislation, the reform of the judicial system and the protection of the environment through its participation in the strategy for the danube region and i hope that in the not too distant future the republic of moldova will be part of the eu.
i welcome the republic of moldova's progressive cooperation in the ongoing negotiations on the association agreement and on the various elements of cooperation, including foreign and security policy, energy cooperation, human rights and trade, which has allowed most of the negotiation chapters to be successfully concluded within the timeframe envisaged.
− the active involvement of the republic of moldova and its commitment to common values and principles, including democracy, the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights, including those of minorities, have been considered essential to advance the process and to ensure the success of the negotiations and the subsequent implementation of the association agreement, which should be tailored to the country's needs and capabilities and have a sustainable impact on its development.
but the causes of this situation, namely climate change, which has had a catastrophic impact on ecosystems, must be identified.
however, i believe that this effort must be accompanied by greater efficiency in order to avoid waste and illegal exploitation, which only harm the most deprived population, in particular children, women and the elderly.
- the proposal for a resolution by mr herbert reul, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the european union's policy approach to the itu world radiocommunications conference 2012 (wrc-12); the international telecommunication union (itu), the world's oldest international organisation founded in 1865, aims to standardise and regulate radio waves and international telecommunications.
we must not forget that the galileo programme will have major implications for many eu policies, particularly in transport, communications, research and the environment.
i would also like to thank the rapporteurs for the various opinions of the committees involved, for the contributions they were able to make and which were incorporated in the final report, and before i turn to the content of the report itself, i cannot help but express my great appreciation and gratitude to the two officials of the committee on industry, research and energy, susanne kiefer and oren gai, who worked with me during the month of august and i think they deserve more than recognition and a very special thank you.
the creation of a specific heading for the sector in the 2014-2020 financial framework is therefore indispensable for the cohesive and sustainable growth of tourism, which is mainly composed of small and medium-sized enterprises.
the achievement of a genuine, sustainable and diversified european tourism policy requires a concrete strategic plan with a well-defined timetable, actions and funding, capable of enhancing the visibility and quality of the tourism sector in the european union.
madam president, the discussion of a strategic framework to help developing countries meet the challenges of food security, which is obviously necessary and welcome, is inseparable, as the rapporteur says in her report, from the discussion of the coherence between this objective, food security in developing countries, and the sectoral policies of the european union, such as agricultural, trade and energy policies, to name just three examples.
we in the s&d group agree with the analysis of the effects of climate change on the increase in the number and severity of disasters and give priority to prevention policies.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
the aim is to promote cooperation between the eu and the republic of cape verde in order to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and ensure rational exploitation of resources in the cape verdean fishing zone.
this partnership ensures the sustainability of resources, bringing clear benefits to both parties.
- i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the agreement promotes the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the cape verdean fishing zone.
considering that this is a country that has long had privileged relations with the eu, including a special partnership established in 2007, and that has an intense link with the outermost regions of europe, the azores, madeira and the canary islands, i welcome the conclusion of this protocol, which will not only allow the fishing fleets of portugal, spain and france to continue fishing in cape verdean waters, but will also contribute to the sustainable economic growth of a country where financial resources are not abundant.
it is also a fishing area of great importance for the sustainability of community operators.
in order to create a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy, the protocol provides for an annual contribution of eur 1 305 000. in addition, it would be desirable to foster synergies with various regional development programmes and to develop the agreement in a manner consistent with the eu's common fisheries policy and development policy.
- this memorandum of cooperation, which i voted in favour of on the basis of the substantive opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy, lays down the terms and conditions of mutual cooperation to promote and increase research and development in the field of civil aviation.
− i voted in favour of the report on the green paper from challenges to opportunities: towards a common strategic framework for eu research and innovation funding, because investments in research, education and innovation, including through the flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy, are key to economic recovery and job creation, as well as to the definition of a sustainable and inclusive growth model.
i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the rapporteur that maintaining separate structural funds will make them more effectively used and will prevent them from being diverted to other areas with a greater capacity to absorb resources - such as the cohesion fund - to the detriment of innovation and technological development capable of creating sustainable employment and training that stimulates competitiveness through the retraining of workers.
in the current crisis, research, education and innovation are key tools for economic recovery and job creation and for defining a model of sustainable and inclusive growth - commonplace in the discourse but necessary in practice, trampled underfoot by current policies.
the sustainability of the community area is to a large extent the result of its capacity for research and innovation.
finally, i would like to call on the ec to pay particular attention to the outermost regions, since they have to bear higher costs in the context of the environment which make it difficult to perform well in this area of activity.
these schools were set up to ensure that the children of staff of the european institutions who are called upon to work and live abroad in a different cultural environment have access to education in their mother tongue, so that these children can, at any time, join an educational establishment in their country of origin.
the analysis of the real impact of the use of the funds by the states, in order to assess their capacity to meet the purposes for which they were allocated, is a necessary condition for the development of a more effective future policy, with less waste of resources.
therefore, given the increasing pace of climate change and the increased likelihood of more frequent and more intense natural disasters, it is urgent to strengthen the eu's response capacity, inside and outside its borders, in order to improve its effectiveness, efficiency, coherence and visibility.
the european union needs to take preventive action, such as tackling climate change, but also to play a coordinating role among all member states who have responsibility in this area so that we do not become entangled in a tangle of responsibilities that makes it difficult to respond quickly and effectively.
prevention is achieved through environmental, agricultural, energy, industrial, water and land-use planning and management policies.
strengthening european response capacity must involve environmental protection, changes to common policies, environmental education and awareness, increased response capacity in individual states and planned cooperation between neighbouring states, including the existence of comprehensive risk charts and alert and response mechanisms.
when the usefulness of the european space policy and the global monitoring programme for the environment and safety is mentioned, there is a danger that, under the pretext of the environment, security concerns are overlooked.
with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, new prerogatives are conferred on the eu, including the coordination of member states' actions in the tourism sector in order to create a climate conducive to the sustainable development of the sector.
this report argues for the need to develop a diversified, sustainable and accessible tourism sector, with a particular focus on vocational training and qualification as a way of meeting the challenge of an effective tourism industrial policy.
- the development of a sustainable transport system that promotes mobility.
− for europe to maintain its role as the world's leading tourist destination, it is essential to develop an ambitious tourism policy with a coordinated approach and a framework for action to strengthen the competitiveness and capacity for sustainable growth in this sector.
the proposed framework for action is based on four pillars: stimulating competitiveness by supporting innovation and ict, improving vocational skills and training and increasing seasonal flexibility; promoting sustainable, diversified, responsible, quality and accessible tourism for all; consolidating the eu's image at international level, while coordinating and simplifying the procedures for issuing tourist visas, improving the attractiveness of our tourist destinations; maximising the potential of the policies and financial instruments available, contributing to the competitiveness of the sector.
- i voted in favour of the report on europe, the world's number one tourist destination new policy framework for european tourism, because it contains relevant proposals to promote sustainable, responsible and quality tourism in the eu, in particular the proposal to create european brands such as the european brand, the ecolabel or the quality tourism brand.
− tourism is the third largest socioeconomic activity in the eu, accounting for 10% of gdp and 12% of total employment, and a sector of crucial importance for employment, regional and local development, cohesion, environment and culture policies.
i come from a country which has immense tourist potential, both because of its natural and climatic conditions and because of the diversity of the dimensions it offers of cultural tourism, rural tourism, environmental tourism, religious tourism, gastronomic and wine tourism and urban tourism.
in addition, the tourism sector, which is mainly composed of small and medium-sized enterprises, enhances competitiveness and the capacity for sustainable growth in line with the priorities set out in the europe 2020 strategy.
in short, by promoting sustainable tourism that strengthens the european union's image internationally as a diverse and excellent tourist destination.
while the report does contain positive aspects which could help to develop the activities of companies in the sector, such as the collection and dissemination of good practice, or the defence of support for certain specific sectors such as environmental tourism and rural tourism, or the defence of a diversification of tourist activities which could reduce seasonality and job insecurity in the sector, the truth is that we cannot ignore the general context which currently conditions tourism activity: namely, that of a deep economic and social crisis, with prospects of worsening on the horizon, particularly in countries such as portugal.
it is a sector of crucial importance because, in addition to aiming at the integration and development of the less developed regions, it is able to reconcile growth, sustainable development and ethics in the countries of the union and is also an essential instrument for strengthening, disseminating and promoting our image in the world.
tourism, as the third largest socioeconomic activity in the eu, accounting for 10% of gdp and 12% of total employment, is a vitally important sector because it aims not only at integration but also at the development of the least developed regions, reconciling growth and sustainable development in the countries of the union.
the report focuses on the need for diversified, sustainable, quality and accessible tourism.
as such, i stress the importance and need for a requalification of the sector in order to keep the eu as the world's number one tourist destination, and at the same time ensure sustainable and more lasting tourism for generations to come.
overall, in order to improve this scenario, i call for a comprehensive, transparent and participatory assessment, taking into account the full range of options available to reduce the impacts of floods and meeting water and energy needs, with priorities based on respect for ecosystems, human rights and making existing systems more effective and sustainable.
there is a need to rethink the management of freshwater resources in the context of climate change.
− water is a scarce natural resource, and water management, especially in the context of climate change, is certainly a major challenge facing the world.
dams, both natural and artificial, can have faults or ruptures that cause floods and avalanches, which is aggravated in the case of natural dams by the effects of global warming and by black carbon deposits that are deposited on glaciers accelerating melting (bangladesh, bhutan, nepal, etc.).
i think it is important to adopt a multifaceted strategy in these regions, that the construction of dams should be assessed in terms of environmental, social and economic impact, but that the developing countries have the final say in assessing their priorities and cost-benefit ratio.
- i voted in favour of the report on the financing of dam infrastructure in developing countries, because i believe that a comprehensive, transparent and participatory assessment of existing alternatives to reduce the impact of floods and meet water and energy needs is needed, giving priority to ecosystem-based solutions and to enhancing the efficiency and sustainability of existing infrastructure.
climate change in recent decades has brought about unexpected natural disasters in unthinkable places.
it is therefore imperative to support these countries in preventing similar situations and in promoting the integrated and sustainable development of localities in geographically more fragile areas.
i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, which is aimed at the european union promoting technologies that drastically reduce carbon emissions, creating a cross-border monitoring agency, supporting projects to build dams that minimise flood risks and improving disaster prevention methods and flood resistance testing of buildings.
the report also argues that support for the construction of such infrastructure may sometimes amount to a waste of eu taxpayers' money.
several of the very significant environmental and social impacts of large-scale water projects are mentioned.
while some of these impacts are real, situations will naturally have to be assessed on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the environmental, economic and social particularities of each country and region.
considerations on environmental impact assessment, including the evaluation of alternatives, and the advocacy of preference for ecosystem-based solutions are also relevant.
the report also argues that in some cases support for the construction of such infrastructure may amount to a waste of eu taxpayers' money, which is in contradiction with other aspects.
several significant environmental and social impacts of large-scale water projects are mentioned, some of which are true, but the situations should of course be assessed on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the environmental, economic and social particularities of each country and region.
- i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the construction of dams must be assessed in relation to their impact on river flows, on rights of access to water and river resources and on the possibility that a dam will uproot existing aggregates, affect the culture and livelihoods of local communities and deplete or degrade environmental resources.
i agree with the need to evaluate dam construction projects on the basis of equity, efficiency, participatory decision-making, sustainability and accountability, so as to avoid any damages from the project outweighing its gains.
the first thing to be taken into account is the overall fragility of the environmental system, which has led to an exponential increase in natural disasters.
in this context, famine situations, arising from the difficulty of accessing water resources, present themselves as a first-line danger to sustainable development.
however, the high environmental impact of large dams and their effects on local populations should not be overlooked: it is estimated that between 40 and 80 million people have been displaced as a result.
the eu's efforts should therefore be directed towards promoting the use of energy production methods which, while not sacrificing the need to obtain energy, have a lower environmental impact (think not only of the use of renewable energy but also of the option of small dams instead of large buildings).
new threats such as price speculation, climate change, land degradation, biofuels, etc.
i welcome this communication from the commission and would like to stress at once the urgent need to increase the availability of food products, increase their nutritional value and combat price volatility, and to review at institutional level the european strategies for sustainable development (in particular the coordination of sectoral policies), increase the share of oda allocated to agriculture and respect the commitments made in this field within international organisations.
the european union must recognise and defend the need for developing countries to ensure their food security and their right to be as self-sufficient as possible by promoting sustainable agriculture.
added to this problem are climate change, biodiversity loss, soil degradation, pressures on water resources and biofuels.
the emphasis on the role of small and family farming, women in rural areas, local production and consumption circuits, the necessary involvement of local and regional populations and authorities, and public investment in research into sustainable agro-ecological production systems is important.
− in this report, which deals with a highly relevant subject, the rapporteur refers to the need for coherence between the main eu policies (such as the cap and trade policy) and the objectives of this strategic framework, highlighting the role of small and family farming, women in rural areas, local production and consumption circuits, the necessary involvement of local and regional populations and authorities, and also public investment in research into sustainable agro-ecological production systems.
the committee on budgets has also been criticised for its lack of a clear policy on the environment.
- i think it is time for the european institutions and the member states to put the eradication of poverty, hunger and malnutrition at the top of their agendas, defining it as a medium or long-term objective in their political strategies, despite strong commitments to the effective implementation of human rights in food, water, energy, etc.
consequently, in order to achieve the mdgs by 2015, it is crucial to review and amend, if necessary, all eu policies, including europe 2020, global europe, energy policy, the sustainable development strategy and the future of eu development cooperation.
- i approve of this report, drawing attention to the need for consistency and coherence in the appropriations allocated to the union's instruments as an indispensable condition for effective and optimum use, very desirable attributes in a budgetary environment of tension and constraint.
this was due to the rapid expansion of the wind energy sector and the fact that wind turbine production is carried out on a global scale and not only in the european union.
− the coordination of the economic policies of the member states, as laid down in the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), implies the observance of the following guiding principles: stable prices, sound public finances and monetary conditions and a sustainable balance of payments.
i welcome the strengthening of the rules of the stability and growth pact, allowing for greater surveillance, seeking to avoid, at an early stage, the occurrence of budget deficits, but also excessive debt, with a view to sustainable growth.
i stress the vital importance of all the member states of the union having their public finances in order and the need to adopt ever more responsible economic policies that guarantee sustainability and growth.
because it is necessary to stabilise the economic sustainability of the euro area, i voted in favour of this report, because i believe that it sets out a set of rigorous but realistic principles, namely the preventive coordination of all european finances, the creation of conditions of stability so that we do not pass on to future generations the difficulties that are currently being experienced in some eu countries, in short, the transition to genuine economic governance in the eu.
it also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
− i voted in favour of the legislative resolution because i agree that the framework for strengthened economic governance should be based on a number of interlinked, coherent policies for sustainable growth and employment, including a union strategy for growth and employment - with a particular focus on developing and strengthening the internal market and promoting international trade and competitiveness - an effective framework for preventing and correcting excessive budget deficits (stability and growth pact), a robust framework for preventing and correcting macroeconomic imbalances, minimum requirements for national budgetary frameworks and strengthened financial market regulation and supervision.
− the enhanced economic governance framework should be based on a number of interlinked policies for sustainable growth and employment that are consistent with each other, including a union strategy for growth and employment - with a particular focus on developing and strengthening the internal market and promoting international trade and competitiveness - an effective framework for preventing and correcting excessive budget deficits (stability and growth pact), a robust framework for preventing and correcting macroeconomic imbalances, minimum requirements for national budgetary frameworks and strengthened financial market regulation and supervision.
- i voted in favour of the legislative resolution because i agree that the coordination of the economic policies of the member states within the union should be developed in the context of the broad economic policy guidelines and the employment guidelines and imply compliance with the guiding principles on price stability, sound and sustainable public finances and monetary conditions, and the sustainability of the balance of payments.
− the coordination of the economic policies of the member states within the union should be developed in the context of the broad economic policy guidelines and the employment guidelines and imply compliance with the guiding principles on price stability, sound and sustainable public finances and monetary conditions, and the sustainability of the balance of payments.
the rules on budgetary discipline should be strengthened, in particular by giving a much more prominent role to debt levels and developments and to sustainability in general.
i am voting in favour of these amendments because i consider them to be an important legislative instrument for developing corrective action to ensure the fiscal sustainability of the member states.
the new legislative package answers this question: much stronger supervision in the stability and growth pact, increased accountability and transparency so that we have sustainable public finances in the member states.
i therefore vote in favour of this report, whose proposals are part of a wider reform undertaken under the europe 2020 strategy and which i hope will contribute to the creation of a stronger and more sustainable economy.
in taking into account systemic pension reforms among the relevant factors, the central element to be considered should be whether such reforms will enhance the long-term sustainability of the overall pension system, without however increasing the risks to the budgetary position in the medium term.
an appropriate regulatory framework is needed to achieve key objectives such as the relaunch of the european economy and the strengthening of its internal market, the sustainability of pension systems and structural reforms to promote employment and ensure flexibility and security in the labour market.
- if we really want to prevent future crises, if we want to create a cohesive and responsible economic union, if we want to pursue a perspective of prevention and correction, and if we want to bet on sustainable growth, then, for this package to be complete, it was essential to have this directive.
i voted in favour of this report because it follows up, in essence, the rapporteur's concerns, particularly as regards the amendments which have been made to the following key points: 1) the general objective of the proposal must relate to the promotion of a high level of employment, the guarantee of adequate social protection and the fight against social exclusion; (2) rules should be established to ensure improvements in national budgetary frameworks in the context of the european semester for policy coordination; (3) the requirements for national budgetary frameworks should ensure not only that the financial planning of the member states is based on realistic forecasts, but also that due attention is paid to the sustainability of their social protection systems, including health and pension systems; (4) finally, the requirements for national budgetary frameworks should also be designed to encourage member states to achieve the eu's employment and growth objectives.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the next summit should be used by the international community to address the challenges related to the three pillars of sustainable development.
the commission and the council must take an ambitious and united stance in the negotiations with a view to achieving a strong political commitment to tackle the multiple challenges of poverty eradication, health, food, employment, gender equality and energy supply.
the summit should also promote the transition to a green economy, promote renewable energy, energy efficiency, but also measures to ensure universal access to energy.
the summit should renew commitments to promote access to clean water and healthy food, the protection of ecosystems and biodiversity, the efficient use of resources, sustainable forest management and the fight against deforestation.
despite progress over the two decades since the rio summit, many of the commitments made in terms of sustainable development have not yet been fulfilled.
this transition requires a radical transformation of the energy sector, including the promotion of renewable energy and energy efficiency.
renewable energy and energy efficiency have the potential to mitigate climate change, contribute to social and economic development and improve security of supply.
in this context, i would stress the importance of innovation and science and the need for scientific and technological cooperation and technology transfer to developing countries and the promotion of sustainable development.
the environment does not exist separately from everything else: society and the economy.
our biggest environmental problem today is the existence of a world-dominant economic and social system, which, in marx's words, either grows and accumulates, or dies.
it is the current trade, agricultural, energy, industrial, economic and financial policies that must be discussed and questioned.
− the rio+20 summit aims to (i) achieve a renewed political commitment to sustainable development, (ii) assess the progress made to date and the gaps still remaining in the implementation of the main summit conclusions on sustainable development, and (iii) respond to new emerging challenges.
but i note once again that a resolution on sustainable development makes comments on financial markets and calls for the introduction of new taxes which i do not think i can support in this context.
- the motion for a resolution tabled following the questions for oral answer pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure, deals with the forthcoming united nations conference on sustainable development, better known as the rio+20 summit, to be held in rio de janeiro next year from 2 to 4 june, and in particular with the main objectives which the european union intends to pursue at this meeting.
twenty years ago, at the first environmental summit in rio de janeiro, the world was left with great hope for the future.
we are all concerned about the health of the planet, and the biggest challenge we face is that of sustainable development.
i welcome the adoption of this motion for a resolution, which is aimed at the eu's defence of a strong position in adopting measures to reduce the risk factors of natural disasters and to mitigate the effects of climate change.
− the objectives of the earth summits are to obtain political commitments on economic and social development compatible with natural balances and environmental preservation.
this resolution, although not without its contradictions, which always end up in resolutions of this kind, as a result of the composition of this parliament and the commitments that follow from it, contains several positive aspects: it departs from the commission's communication; clarifying the concept of a green economy, recognises that it will not automatically bring prosperity to the poor or achieve the mdgs; draws attention to the disparities and inequalities at global and national level, which are the result of the current economic model; refuses to commercialise natural systems; calls for increased support for developing countries, stressing the importance of oda; considers water to be a public good and calls for the universal guarantee of the right to water and sanitation; welcomes the fact that the european union is a major player in the world economy and that it is the main actor in the world economy; draws attention to the need to ensure food sovereignty of developing countries, investment in small-scale agriculture and access to seeds; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
- as is well known, the objectives of the earth summits are to obtain political commitments on economic and social development compatible with natural balances and environmental preservation.
this resolution, although not without its contradictions, which always end up in resolutions of this kind, as a result of the composition of the ep and the commitments that follow from it, contains several positive aspects, in particular: takes a step back from the commission communication, clarifying the concept of a green economy and recognising that it will not automatically bring prosperity to the poor or achieve the mdgs; draws attention to the disparities and inequalities at global and national level due to the current economic model and rejects the commodification of natural systems; calls for more support for developing countries and considers water to be a public good; welcomes the fact that the european union is a major player in the world economy and that it is the main actor in the world economy; draws attention to the need to ensure food sovereignty of developing countries, investment in small-scale agriculture and access to seeds; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
− the united nations conference on sustainable development (rio+20) set out several objectives, of which i would highlight: achieving renewed political commitment to sustainable development, assessing progress to date and remaining gaps in the implementation of the conclusions of the major summits on sustainable development, and responding to new emerging challenges.
− the united nations conference on sustainable development (rio +20), to be held in 2012 in rio de janeiro, will naturally be a privileged forum for the debate on environmental, economic and social sustainability in a globalised world.
in this context, the eu should take a position of dialogue and commitment to the well-being of future generations, seeking to strengthen ties with other relevant actors (not only states, but also ngos and international public law organisations) in the search for solutions that can contribute in practice to sustainable development.
i therefore welcome the adoption of this resolution, which i voted in favour of, because i am aware that this fund will contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, enabling the eu to emerge stronger and more cohesive from the economic and financial crisis in which it finds itself and with a view to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
this agreement includes clauses on eu designation, on the right of establishment between air carriers of the member states, on a community framework for the taxation of energy products and on competition rules.
finally, i would like to stress the importance of adopting a 'green' vat system and of introducing reduced and deductible rates for energy-efficient products and services.
among the points advanced at the time was that the commission's annual report should address the relationship between the support granted and the eu's external policy objectives, the implications of this action in terms of environmental and energy sustainability and the link between the funds made available through the eib and those of other donors.
the ebrd mainly supports the development of the local sector: small and medium-sized enterprises, private individuals, municipalities, regional cooperation, innovation, job creation, energy, green projects, etc.
this simplification of procedures is intended both to combat the illicit production and trafficking of arms as a threat to public security and to ensure the sustainability of the european industry itself.
the commission is proposing concrete measures to enhance the benefits of the single market: strengthening the digital and energy internal markets, new patent legislation and new free trade agreements.
i would stress the concerns about economic policy, in particular the strengthening of competitiveness and the promotion of employment, and the eu's position for the g20 summit and the durban conference on climate change, some of the issues to be discussed at the next european council.
it is not enough to say that the human rights of disabled people are recognised and then adopt policies which in practice call into question their most basic rights, as is the case with the so-called austerity programmes, the neo-liberal policies of the stability pact and the demand for compliance with their irrational nominal criteria, serving as cover for wage cuts, the closure of essential public services for these people, as is happening in portugal, greece and other countries, putting into question access to basic public services such as health, education, transport and energy.
it should therefore have a stable and predictable legal framework, less bureaucratic procedures to attract smes and to uphold social and environmental values.
we agree that public procurement should be based on principles such as maximising social welfare and protecting the environment.
the purchase of goods and services by public authorities using public funds must meet the needs of citizens in each member state, and must do so while ensuring respect for criteria of economic, social and environmental sustainability, but the creation of a european public procurement market, under the concrete conditions in which the integration process is currently taking place, does not ensure, on the contrary, the attainment of these objectives.
the imbalances that exist today within the european union and the very serious situation facing the weakest economies justify that public procurement in these member states can be geared to national preference, stimulating domestic production, the activity of smes and shorter, socially and environmentally more sustainable supply chains, thus constituting an important instrument of economic recovery in the service of the essential growth and development, which allows overcoming deficits and blockages.
considering that what is at stake is the mobility of an eu official whose appointment 'represents an exceptional circumstance for the edps', i am voting in favour of this draft amending budget, as i agree with the rapporteur's recommendation that the council's position be amended by updating the edps's establishment plan for 2011 in order to allow the appointment of an official to the next higher grade, thus complying with the staff regulations and the conditions of employment of other servants of the european economic community and the european atomic energy community.
− sustainable economic growth to end the economic and financial crisis facing the european union has been one of the commission's main objectives.
these are forms of mediation and arbitration that in many cases are related to trade, consumer, environmental or family disputes.
this requires more than a merely passive attitude on the part of the community institutions: on the contrary, it presupposes a climate of cooperation in which the european parliament, by virtue of its direct democratic legitimacy, plays a leading role.
i welcome the introduction of a provision for the commission to report annually to the european parliament and the council on the progress in the development of technical solutions with a view to achieving the objectives of the eu's policy on reducing pollutant emissions.
− environmental protection is a duty for all and must be given priority in a responsible political agenda.
i support the reduction of toxic gas emissions into the atmosphere wherever possible and i hope that we can move towards industrial production and the operation of vehicles, technologies and machinery which are ever less polluting.
the right balance must therefore be struck between conflicting interests, bearing in mind that people and the maintenance of their activities are not separable from the environment around them.
this directive sets emission limits for carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, hydrocarbons and particulate matter.
it aims to set emission limit values for carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxide, hydrocarbons and particulate matter, which were changed in 2005 without any specific impact assessment on the technical feasibility of this application.
the reduction of emissions of air pollutants for better air quality is certainly an important objective, which we are fighting for.
it aims to set emission limit values for carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxide, hydrocarbons and particulate matter, which were changed in 2005 without any specific impact assessment on the technical feasibility of this application.
the reduction of emissions of air pollutants for better air quality is certainly an important objective, which we are fighting for.
i support the eu's policy of reducing emissions, but in the light of independent studies and data compiled by the commission which show that more time is needed to allow manufacturers to develop new systems, i agree with the commission's proposal to postpone by three years the start date of the new obligations on emissions of carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxide, hydrocarbons and particulate matter.
− directive 2000/52/ec sets emission limits for carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxide, hydrocarbons and particulate matter from compression ignition engines with a power output between 18 kw and 560 kw intended for installation on agricultural or forestry tractors.
− directive 2000/52/ec sets, in stages, the emission limits for carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxide, hydrocarbons and particulate matter from agricultural and/or forestry tractors.
- i voted in favour of the report on engines placed on the market under the flexible regime, which provides for a transitional increase in this regime, because i believe that environmental legislation should be consistent with the eu's medium- and long-term environmental objectives, but that in the short term the activities of smes and the recovery from the economic crisis should also be supported.
− the use of non-road mobile machinery implies the emission of polluting gases which should be reduced in order to protect the environment and to ensure better living conditions for the citizens of the member states.
− this report concerns a commission proposal to make directive 97/68/ec more flexible, setting maximum levels for emissions of carbon monoxide (co), hydrocarbons (hc), nitrogen oxides (nox) and particulate matter (pm) from engines of non-road mobile machinery.
this report challenges the commission's view that manufacturers lose competitiveness if they comply with stricter environmental legislation.
only in this way will it be possible to achieve the eu 2020 objectives and enable the transition to a low-carbon society.
i agree with you that the global economic and financial crisis cannot be used as a reason for changing environmental standards.
i therefore take the view that this report takes account of environmental protection and safeguards, the development and competitiveness of industry, and is a balanced proposal which aims to mitigate as far as possible the impact of the current economic crisis on engine and machinery manufacturers.
the directive in question (97/68/ec) sets maximum emission levels for carbon monoxide (co), hydrocarbons (hc), nitrogen oxides (nox) and particulate matter (pm) for engines of non-road mobile machinery.
it is noted that pm and nox emissions from this type of machinery represent respectively 7% and 16% of the total value.
the rapporteur was opposed to this outright, citing environmental and public health reasons, and proposed a much tighter regime.
in the committee on the environment, it was possible to reach a consensus which, being more flexible than the rapporteur's initial proposal, is close to this one, restricting the margin of manoeuvre created by the european commission.
− this directive lays down maximum emission levels for carbon monoxide (co), hydrocarbons (hc), nitrogen oxides (nox) and particulate matter (pm) from engines of non-road mobile machinery.
it is noted that pm and nox emissions from this type of machinery represent respectively 7% and 16% of the total value.
the rapporteur was opposed to this outright, citing environmental and public health reasons, and proposed a much tighter regime.
the consensus reached in the committee on the environment is more flexible than the rapporteur's initial proposal, restricting the scope for manoeuvre open to the european commission, and we have therefore supported it.
directive 97/68/ec is an important piece of union environmental legislation and has made a significant contribution, in particular to achieving the emission reductions envisaged.
pm and nox emissions are the main source of air pollution from the sector.
in this connection, and because i share the rapporteur's concerns about the commission's proposal to extend the flexibility scheme and postpone a reduction in emissions, i voted in favour of this report which mitigates these concerns.
− directive 97/68/ec set maximum emission levels for carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter from engines of non-road mobile machinery, resulting in a set of measures in union law aimed at the environmental protection and sustainability of the common space.
the general trend should be maintained, continuing the path towards reducing carbon emissions.
- directive 97/68/ec is an important element in the field of the environment, since it sets maximum levels of emissions of carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons, nitrogen oxides (nox) and particulate matter (pm) from engines of non-road mobile machinery.
since nox and pm emissions are the main sources of air pollution, action is important in this sector.
- i approve this report, agreeing with the rapporteur's position that it supports measures to achieve a sustainable society based on a human rights-respecting approach.
− the inclusion of the 80 million disabled people in the european union is of the utmost importance for the creation of a more active and sustainable society with regard to ageing in europe.
it is important to pursue the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in order to ensure smart, sustainable and inclusive european growth, which necessarily includes structural improvements in mobility and the inclusion of people with disabilities.
- i voted in favour of this report because it argues that financial investment in people with disabilities is a profitable and absolutely necessary investment in the medium and long term, as it contributes to the well-being of all and to a society based on sustainable foundations in which people can work more effectively and in better conditions.
in other words, it is a very different picture from the current so-called austerity policies, from the neo-liberal orientations that violate the most elementary rights of people with disabilities, calling into question access to basic public services such as health, education, transport, energy, among others.
the real consequences of austerity programmes and neoliberal policies on the most basic rights of disabled people are thus not examined in depth, which calls into question access to basic public services such as health, education, transport and energy.
it should be noted that the financial expenditure and investment made in trying to establish decent social living conditions for people with disabilities is a fundamental issue of justice and human rights, and is a cost-effective long-term investment in the well-being of all and in a society built on sustainable foundations, where people can live longer and work more effectively in better conditions.
the aim is to provide society with a sustainable vision based on an approach that respects human rights.
- i voted in favour of the report on the modernisation of public procurement policy because it proposes a reformulation of the criteria for the award of contracts, in order to favour the most advantageous tenders, not only in economic terms but also in social and environmental terms, taking into account the costs of the whole life cycle of the goods, services or works concerned.
i believe that public procurement should drive the transition to a more sustainable economy and the achievement of the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy.
including all the rhetoric around social and environmental principles to be taken into account in public procurement.
while it is true that public procurement must take full account of these principles of maximising social welfare and protecting the environment (when we talk about the use of public money, the pursuit of the common good must necessarily be a primary concern), it cannot be ignored, as we said in the plenary debate, that the perspective of commercial opening as stated in this report is not the best way of ensuring that these principles are observed.
− public procurement must take account of principles such as maximising social welfare or protecting the environment, and so the purchase of goods and services by public authorities using public funds must respond effectively to the needs of the citizens of each member state, while ensuring that criteria of economic, social and environmental sustainability are respected.
however, given the current imbalances within the eu and the very serious situation facing the weakest economies, public procurement in these member states could be geared towards national preference, stimulating domestic production, the activities of smes and shorter supply chains - more socially and environmentally sustainable - thus becoming an important instrument of economic recovery, serving the essential growth and development, and allowing overcoming the deficits and bottlenecks that are facing today.
i also believe that the price criterion should not be the overriding factor in the award of contracts, but that the criterion of the economically most advantageous tender in terms of economic, social and environmental benefits should be adopted.
given the current environment, the economic reasons for the opening up of labour markets have never been more obvious.
- i welcome the measures taken to measure global imbalances, through a set of indicative guidelines against which a set of agreed indicators will be assessed, in order to reduce excessive and persistent macroeconomic imbalances and to maintain the current current account imbalances of countries at sustainable levels, in particular the external imbalance comprising the trade balance and the net balance of investment and transfer income flows.
equally important is the commitment to strengthen multilateral cooperation with a view to concerted political action by all g20 members to enable strong, sustainable and balanced growth.
effective global economic governance will minimize the negative impacts and correct the dangerous effects of globalisation, such as the widening of inequalities or the destruction of the environment.
i believe that a global perspective and a common approach to monetary policy, international trade, the sustainability of public finances and exchange rate flexibility based on key economic indicators are needed.
it therefore advocates a common approach to monetary policy, international trade, the sustainability of public finances and financial regulation and supervision, with the imf and the wto as the pillars of this coordination.
i also support a comprehensive understanding and common action by the member states in the areas of monetary policy, international trade and the sustainability of public finances, and the need to consolidate the opening of markets to the outside world and to strengthen financial regulation and banking supervision.
in this context, i voted in favour of this report, which sets out in detail the policies that the european union can adopt in the main areas of action of organised crime, in particular: trafficking in and exploitation of human beings, international drug trafficking, arms trafficking, money laundering and financial crime, corruption, the interpenetration and coexistence of organised crime, politics and public administration, the misappropriation of public funds (in particular european union funds) by organised crime, eco-mafia and environmental crime, computer crime, counterfeiting of products and related trafficking, extortion and usury.
- while the area of freedom is primarily at the service of the individual, it also provides a more favourable environment for the expansion of organised crime.
i also believe it is important to increase financial aid and involve the private sector in aid to the poorest countries in order to build an economy that is not dependent on external aid, to ensure sustainable development and to create wealth.
in this context, europe faces four challenges: first, job creation; second, the need to engage and remain competitive; third, the sustainability of social security systems; and finally, the difficulty of finding people with the right skills to fill job vacancies.
we now know the potential of a new sustainable economy, the green economy, and the need to invest in green skills.
the high unemployment rate has economic and social consequences and calls into question the sustainability of social security systems.
the ageing and consequent decline of the labour force is putting at risk the sustainability of social security systems and economic growth itself, so motherhood should not be seen as a burden on the economy but as a service to society.
europe needs, more than ever, a strong common agricultural policy, capable of guaranteeing quality foodstuffs at affordable prices for consumers and in an environmentally sustainable framework.
once again, this budget goes beyond what it should in external interventionism, in militarism, in the repression of immigration, once again it falls far short of what was required in cohesion, employment, social areas and environmental preservation.
at just 1.08% of the total gross income of the 27 member states, it is still below the figure of over €8 billion foreseen in the multiannual financial framework agreed in 2006. unfortunately, the proposals we have put forward in the various committees, which aim to increase funding in the social and environmental fields, to change the content and distribution of funding, including cuts in the militaristic area and the repression of immigration, have been rejected.
in these terms, and taking into account the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy, i am voting in favour of the council's request that parliament approve the cooperation agreement on satellite navigation between the european union and its member states and the kingdom of norway.
in these terms, and taking into account the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy, i am voting in favour of the council's request that parliament approve the cooperation agreement on satellite navigation between the european union and its member states and the kingdom of norway.
in view of the clarifications made in the committee on industry, energy and research, we think it is worth agreeing to, given the assurances that the information will not be used for military purposes.
in view of the explanations given in the committee on industry, energy and research, we think that we should agree, provided that norway wishes to do so, as we have been told.
in view of the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy, i am voting in favour of the council's request for parliament to approve the agreement for the promotion, provision and use of galileo and gps satellite navigation systems and related applications between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the united states of america, of the other part.
in these terms, and taking into account both the report of the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control and the opinions of the committee on foreign affairs, the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on regional development, i am voting in favour of this proposal for a parliament and council regulation on the financial provisions applicable to the annual budget of the eu.
future generations will not forgive us if we do nothing about this and if we persist in not recognising the radical change that markets have undergone and which requires us to discuss the model of the state, the sustainability of social security, demography, the formatting of the employment relationship, education and research policies, among many other matters.
it is also important to establish a climate of cooperation between the community institutions in order to maximise the contribution of the ombudsman.
madam president, rail transport is a strategic sector for economic, energy and environmental reasons.
in addition to information campaigns, monitoring and product testing, it is essential to ensure that all populations - workers, pensioners, children, young people, women and migrants - have sufficient income to access all essential goods and services, including food, but also health, energy, transport and housing services that enable them to live a life in dignity.
if we consider that this decline affects not only domestic bees but also the wild populations of various pollinator species, we can easily see the seriousness of its consequences for agriculture and the environment.
the provisions related to the local development approach, integrated territorial investment and sustainable urban development, will allow further flexibility and additional possibilities for funding to address demographic change at regional and local level.
active and healthy aging is critical for a sustainable european society.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
− the outermost regions of the european union face permanent constraints related to their remoteness, insularity, difficult terrain and climate, which result in a structural limitation to their economic and social situation, in accordance with article 349 tfeu.
− i welcome the proposals aimed at continuing and extending the agreement in the financial perspectives of the euratom framework programme for nuclear research for the years 2012 and 2013. the euratom framework programme concerns research activities in the field of nuclear energy and radiation protection.
- i share the concerns of those who have serious doubts about nuclear energy: about its cost, about the fate of its radioactive waste and about the safety of its facilities (whether due to accidents of their own, to terrorist attacks or other criminal acts or to natural disasters such as those that occurred in fukushima, japan).
that is why i decided to abstain in the final vote on both the reports on the implementation of the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training (direct and indirect actions) and on the report on the proposal on the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in indirect actions under this programme and for the dissemination of research results.
- i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the european atomic energy community framework programme for nuclear research and training (indirect actions) because it is part of a legislative package which aims to continue support for research and development activities under the 7th euratom framework programme (2007-2011) by aligning it with the current eu multiannual financial framework until 2013.
in writing.
- coordination in the field of atomic energy is one of the origins of the current process of european integration.
from the very beginning of this process, it has been necessary to make a joint effort to seek to research and develop technology which would enable europe to keep pace with the development and use of this energy.
nuclear energy is currently part of the energy mix of some member states of the european union, and the provision of adequate means for the ecsc to pursue its objectives could enable it to contribute to ensuring safer and cleaner nuclear energy for citizens, while maintaining its use.
- this report, by jan březina, deals with the proposal for a council decision on the specific programme for the implementation of the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training activities (2012-2013), to be implemented through indirect actions by the joint research centre.
despite the disasters at chernobyl and, more recently, at fukushima, the nuclear question remains very topical, not only because of the need to accompany the dismantling of obsolete nuclear power stations and ensure the safety of waste management, but also, and fundamentally, because of a scientific and technological modernization issue, both in terms of energy production and medicine.
- independently of the debate on the nuclear option for energy supply, which must be pursued, taking into account the limits, potential and dangers of this option, we consider that training and research in this area, which has many other applications besides the above, are necessary.
the training of technicians and researchers specialised in this field and the existence of a body of research, monitoring and control infrastructures is a necessity for any country, whether or not nuclear is an energy option.
as regards the content of the report, we are very concerned about some of its assumptions, particularly those which end up promoting nuclear energy.
the way in which it does so is not in keeping with the debate which needs to be held in view of the well-known risks and consequences for people and the environment, as well as the recent accidents of alarming proportions.
in the specific case of the european atomic energy community it is important that the funds are well used to safeguard potential safety risks as well as in research towards the discovery of cleaner atomic energy with less environmental risks.
- i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a council decision on the specific programme to be implemented through indirect actions for the implementation of the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training activities (2012-2013).
- following the evaluation carried out by the committee on industry, research and energy, i voted in favour of the proposal for a specific programme for the implementation of the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training activities to be carried out by means of indirect actions, as i believe that it meets the objectives of the community's energy policy.
the european commission has put forward a proposal dealing with indirect actions such as research into fusion and nuclear fission energy and radiation protection, with the intention of extending the programme specifically designed for this purpose for a further two years.
i agree with the commission's present initiative because i believe it is important for the european union to take measures to continue the activities being developed and to start implementing the european strategic plan for energy technologies approved by the council in march 2008. finally, i believe that the new fp for 2012-13 should be simpler and less bureaucratic, with increased transparency and legal certainty in line with the european parliament's suggestions for the implementation of the research fps.
in a climate of crisis, the number of insolvencies is increasing and it is necessary to speed up the procedures.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
- i share the concerns of those who have serious doubts about nuclear energy: about its cost, about the fate of its radioactive waste and about the safety of its facilities (whether due to accidents of their own, to terrorist attacks or other criminal acts or to natural disasters such as those that occurred in fukushima, japan).
that is why i decided to abstain in the final vote on both the reports on the implementation of the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training (direct and indirect actions) and on the report on the proposal on the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in indirect actions under this programme and for the dissemination of research results.
- i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the european atomic energy community framework programme for nuclear research and training (direct actions) because it is part of a legislative package which aims to continue support for research and development activities under the 7th euratom framework programme (2007-2011) by aligning it with the current eu multiannual financial framework until 2013.
in writing.
the importance of the energy issue for europe calls for the centre to be provided with the appropriate means to pursue the specific objectives in this area.
however, despite all the disagreeing voices, the nuclear question remains very topical, not only because of the need to monitor the dismantling of obsolete nuclear power stations and ensure the safety of waste management, but also, and fundamentally, because of a scientific and technological modernization issue, both in terms of energy production and medicine.
this report, by jan březina, concerns the proposal for a council decision on the specific programme for the implementation of the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training activities (2012-2013), to be implemented through direct actions by the joint research centre.
despite the economic and financial crisis, i believe that the eu should continue to support the implementation of this framework programme, in particular through educational programmes in the nuclear energy sector promoting high-level training, the award of research grants and the operationalization of methodologies that take into account the safety of decommissioning of inactive or obsolete nuclear reactors.
in the specific case of the european atomic energy community, it is important that funds are well used to safeguard potential safety risks as well as in research towards the discovery of cleaner atomic energy with less environmental risks.
- i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a council decision on the specific programme to be implemented through direct actions by the joint research centre, implementing the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training activities (2012-2013).
- following the evaluation carried out by the committee on industry, research and energy, i voted in favour of the proposal for a specific programme for the implementation of the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training activities to be carried out by means of direct actions by the joint research centre, as i believe that it meets the objectives of the community's energy policy.
- i share the concerns of those who have serious doubts about nuclear energy: about its cost, about the fate of its radioactive waste and about the safety of its facilities (whether due to accidents of their own, to terrorist attacks or other criminal acts or to natural disasters such as those that occurred in fukushima, japan).
that is why i decided to abstain in the final vote on both the reports on the implementation of the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training (direct and indirect actions) and on the report on the proposal on the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in indirect actions under this programme and for the dissemination of research results.
- i voted in favour of the report on the participation of companies, research centres and universities in indirect actions of the european atomic energy community framework programme, because it is part of a legislative package which aims to continue support for research and development activities under the 7th euratom framework programme (2007-2011) by adapting it to the current eu multiannual financial framework until 2013.
in writing.
- this report, by jan březina, focuses on the proposal for a council regulation (euratom) laying down the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in indirect actions under the framework programme of the european atomic energy community and for the dissemination of research results (2012-2013).
despite the disasters at chernobyl and, more recently, at fukushima, the nuclear question remains very topical, not only because of the need to monitor the dismantling of obsolete nuclear power stations and ensure the safety of waste management, but also, and fundamentally, because of a scientific and technological modernization issue, both in terms of energy production and medicine.
- the extension of the indirect actions of the framework programme of the european atomic energy community is not only desirable but also welcome.
it can provide new discoveries, so important in the safe use of atomic energy, an increasingly pressing topic on the alternative energy agenda.
− this report, supplementing a7-0358/2011 and a7-0340/2011, refers to the proposal for a council regulation (euratom) laying down the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in indirect actions under the framework programme of the european atomic energy community and for the dissemination of research results (2012-2013).
the report by the committee on industry, research and energy was voted unanimously, and the european parliament, through its rapporteur, inserted in the commission's text certain guarantees concerning the implementation of the programmes and the penalties for non-compliance.
- i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation laying down the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in indirect actions under the framework programme of the european atomic energy community and for the dissemination of research results, as i believe that it is essential that non-public bodies are involved in research activities, as this is the most appropriate way of building a genuine knowledge society.
− the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for 2012-13 should include further actions to meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular in terms of scientific excellence and implementation of key innovations in the field of nuclear energy.
i support this report because i believe that it is a positive step to increase investment in education, training, innovation, industry, employment and the environment, and that this programme will help to increase the competitiveness and modernisation of european enterprises.
− nuclear energy has been referred to as one of the lowest carbon forms of energy, but its use is always the subject of great controversy, whether because of the difficulty of dealing with nuclear waste or because of safety issues.
but we think it is important that research should also be carried out in this area and that, along with other research, particularly in renewable energies, it can contribute to understanding and solving the decline in the fossil fuel bill and dependence which is now being experienced in several member states of the european union.
we are concerned about some of the assumptions in this report, especially those which end up promoting nuclear energy, when we know the dangers to the population and the environment arising from aspects relating to the safety of power stations and reactors, the treatment and transport of waste from the production of this type of energy and the decommissioning of installations.
− professional mobility is an essential element for economic development, sustainable economic recovery and the relaunch of the internal market.
− in the current economic climate, the simplification and flexibility of all rules allowing greater mobility of professionals, especially in terms of the recognition of their qualifications, is an essential requirement for a sustainable economic recovery.
it is also important to take initiatives to reduce the exposure of consumers and the environment to hazardous chemicals.
finally, as regards promoting the interests of the digital consumer, it is important to provide the consumer with a safe social environment, to guarantee access to telecommunications networks as a means of social and economic inclusion, while respecting the fundamental rights of the consumer, in particular the protection of his personal data.
it is urgent to reduce the disparities between european consumers in this sector, to apply and enforce existing legislation and to face the new challenges facing society today: the globalisation of markets, the digitalisation of the economy, the ageing of the population, carbon emissions and food protection.
the report also highlights the principles of consumer empowerment and reducing inequalities, encouraging sustainable consumption, reducing exposure to dangerous products and protecting against misleading advertising, especially to children.
i would, however, stress the need for better coordination between consumer policy and social and environmental objectives in the context of the europe 2020 strategy.
the eu is implementing a community strategy on consumer policy from 2007 to 2013. with the adoption of the europe 2020 strategy, the issue of consumption has gained further importance due to the need to combat climate change, poverty and social exclusion and to increase employability.
given that private consumption accounts for 56% of eu gdp, it is imperative that private consumption becomes more sustainable.
to this end, the consumer agenda is planned to be launched during the month of march 2012. this is a key initiative to tackle a number of issues: ensuring consumer safety, promoting a low-carbon economy, preventing food waste, promoting recycling, reducing consumer inequalities, ensuring financial and food services protection and providing better information.
in addition to information campaigns, monitoring and product testing, it is essential to ensure that all populations, including workers, children, young people, women and migrants, have sufficient income to access essential goods and services such as food, health, energy, transport and housing.
in addition to information campaigns, monitoring and product testing, it is essential to ensure that all populations, including workers, children, young people, women and migrants, have sufficient income to access all essential goods and services, such as food, health, energy, transport and housing, which enable them to live in dignity.
the implementation of these measures should also contribute to reducing inequalities between consumers in europe, to promoting a low-carbon economy and to better protecting children from advertising, as well as older people and those who have become more vulnerable in the current crisis.
the strategy, which was put into practice with the publication of the consumer agenda, focuses on more sustainable private consumption, food and product safety, the protection of children from today's aggressive advertising, and the development of a digital environment that enables consumers to absorb the maximum amount of information.
the aim is essentially to adapt the regulatory instruments available to the challenges that have emerged, promoting the improvement of service provision and safeguarding consumer health and the environment itself.
i note that as an economic and social activity it plays a key role in the sustainable development of rural areas, generates employment and provides an important service to the ecosystem through pollination, which contributes to the improvement of biodiversity by maintaining the genetic diversity of plants.
it should be underlined that beekeeping is a crucial sector for society, given its contribution to biodiversity, the sustainability of agriculture and food security.
as well as providing an income for over 600 000 eu citizens, beekeeping, an integral part of european agriculture, not only contributes to the preservation of biodiversity but is also vital to agricultural activity due to pollination.
the resolution makes a strong criticism of intensive farming models based on a high incorporation of pesticides and proposes alternative sustainable production methods that respect and promote biodiversity, with concrete proposals to achieve them.
this number gives us a sense of the seriousness of the problem for agriculture, for food production and security, for biodiversity, for environmental sustainability and for ecosystems.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it should be noted that the importance of this sector is not only due to its economic dimension, despite all the relevant factors - some 600 000 community citizens depend on it directly or indirectly - but also to its environmental impact, since bees play a central role in the ecological balance.
it calls for further studies to understand the factors that have led to the disappearance of a large number of bees whose activity is an integral part of european agriculture and contributes to the balance of ecosystems and biodiversity.
they thus contribute to combating social inequalities and promoting sustainable development, as well as to improving the economic performance and competitiveness of member states.
i welcome the commission's plans to review the state aid rules applicable to services of general economic interest in order to enhance the contribution that these services can make to the recovery of the eu economy as a whole and the promotion of sustainable economic growth.
in the context of the reform of eu state aid rules, it is necessary to ensure that competition rules do not preclude appropriate compensation for undertakings entrusted with the provision of services of general economic interest, and to take account of the importance of the services provided for the promotion of fundamental rights; for social, economic and territorial cohesion; for combating inequalities in society and for promoting sustainable development.
these are basic services that we only become aware of when something goes wrong, such as a strike in the solid waste collection services, a breakdown in a high-voltage line that causes a blackout, or a rupture in a water supply pipe that prevents us from taking a shower in the morning.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
this platform, which is part of a strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, will play a major role in reducing poverty, optimising european funds and improving the effectiveness of social protection systems.
to ensure sustainable and inclusive growth, it is essential to integrate the most vulnerable categories of people at the heart of the european project, given that poverty reduction is a driving force for future growth.
to this end, and to ensure sustainable and inclusive growth, it is essential to integrate the most vulnerable categories of people at the heart of the european project, given that poverty reduction is a driving force for future growth.
the proposals foresee an increase to €144 for latvia, but the payments for the netherlands will be almost three times higher, although the climate and production conditions in latvia are not necessarily three times lighter and cheaper.
the crisis has served as an alibi for not taking the ambitious decisions that the situation requires and that citizens expect, whether at economic, social or environmental level.
so expectations for durban are quite low, but it is hoped that at least one step will be taken towards reaching a fair and legally binding international agreement that can achieve the goal of keeping global warming below 2°c.
and durban should also help to build on the progress made in cancún, notably with regard to the green climate fund and the adaptation committee.
moreover, these powers almost always seem more interested in exploiting climate as a profitable business opportunity or in containing potential or actual competitors than in actually achieving real levels of emission reduction, which would necessarily imply challenging the current dominant economic and social organisation model on a global scale.
we therefore insist on the need for a serious discussion on the perversity of market instruments, on the carbon market and on flexibility instruments as a mechanism for clean development.
madam president, it is important that the european union maintains its leading role in the fight against climate change.
with regard to the second period of kyoto, europe must give its agreement on conditions such as: first, the existence of a plan with well-defined deadlines; second, a new separation between industrialized and developing countries; and third, the adoption of a sectoral approach for industrial sectors, with energy-intensive use as a solution to carbon leakage.
the european union has a responsibility in this situation, both because many of the companies involved in this process are european and because the legislation on fuels of renewable origin encourages the race to farmland in the acp countries.
a race that threatens biodiversity, degrades soils and other natural resources and tends to dangerously accentuate the food deficit of many of these countries, hunger and poverty.
but it is essential that your energy and will also be transmitted to the heads of government and, in particular, to the heads of government of the countries with the greatest economic and financial weight in europe.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i stress the importance of the ppp to keep up pressure on eu member states to take action to meet their commitments to achieve the millennium development goals, to involve national parliaments more closely in national and regional strategy papers and in the implementation of the edf, and to take action to tackle poverty, climate change and strict respect for all aspects of human rights.
it is, however, important that the jpa maintains pressure on eu member states to take action to deliver on the commitments they have made to the millennium development goals, namely greater involvement of national parliaments in national and regional strategy papers and edf implementation, as well as measures to combat poverty and climate change and to ensure strict respect for human rights in all aspects.
the three standing committees met four times: the commission also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which was published in the official journal of the european communities on 1 january.
- i voted in favour of the report on the single european railway area because it contains proposals to clarify and improve legislation in the field of rail transport, so as to make it more attractive as a means of transport for passengers and goods and thus contribute to the development of more sustainable transport systems in the eu.
this is a market for transport, both of passengers and goods, with enormous growth potential, as it is cheaper and faster than road transport and has major environmental advantages.
− despite its potential as an environmentally sustainable means of transport, rail has not succeeded in establishing itself as the preferred means of transport for people and goods.
i voted in favour of this reform of the regulatory framework for the railway sector, which will contribute to the creation of a genuine european transport network with significant advantages in terms of quality of service, job creation, safety and environmental sustainability.
maintaining measures to combat global warming is important for future generations and it is essential to implement environmentally sustainable policies, as is the case in the azores, a world example in areas such as the use of renewable energy.
− it is important that the european union maintains its leading role in the fight against climate change.
the durban conference should result in concrete proposals for agreement on the second period of the kyoto protocol and on negotiations under the united nations convention on climate change.
for the second period of compliance with the kyoto protocol, europe must agree on the following conditions: the existence of a timetable for a legally binding agreement that includes the largest economies, a new separation between industrialized and developing countries, and the adoption of a sectoral approach for energy-intensive industrial sectors as a solution to carbon leakage.
it is essential to secure a comprehensive, international, fair, ambitious and legally binding agreement in order to secure the targets of reducing emissions (by 26%) by 2020 on the basis of 1990 levels and limiting the increase in the global average temperature beyond 2°c.
− it is essential that the eu develops a strategy to tackle climate change, making a serious commitment to sustainable development, seeking to reduce its carbon emissions, without jeopardising productive activities, particularly industries.
any policy on climate change, especially in the context of the economic and financial crisis, must seek economic efficiency and sustainability, by putting innovation and research at the service of new techniques and new solutions that are more environmentally friendly and equally efficient and competitive.
the focus should be on more efficient use of natural resources and strong investment in research and cleaner technologies to maintain european competitiveness and enable job creation in a green growth environment.
the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's action in the field of climate change.
because it is people who have to respond to climate change and not the other way around, we have to limit the average temperature increase to two degrees and make the year 2012 the peak year for greenhouse gases.
i therefore welcome the significant presence of eu representatives at this conference to give effect to the recommendations now adopted and welcome the fact that the eu is committed to complying with the kyoto protocol and to reducing co2 emissions to levels above the 20% target for 2020.
in writing.
in general terms, the importance of reducing ghg emissions and the need to meet the targets set in the un framework are highlighted.
but, like the previous ones, this resolution also fails to define the means to achieve these goals and to analyse why, conference after conference, the goals are not met: the solution to this environmental problem will not be found within the framework of the irrational economic and social system that has generated it.
the failure to recognise and debate this premise, the insistence on the capitalist approach to this problem, of which market instruments such as carbon trading are a prominent feature, does not allow for optimism about the effective resolution of the problem.
- we know that the depletion of natural resources at a rate that is absolutely disproportionate to the needs of the world's population, air and water pollution, the effects of war, the destruction of forests and intensive agriculture are all concrete effects of industrial activity and factors that reduce the quality of life of the general population.
the report has positive aspects in that it stresses the importance of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and the need to meet the targets set.
the solution to the environmental problem will not be found within the framework of the irrational economic and social system that has created it.
the failure to recognise and debate this premise, the insistence on a capitalist approach to this problem, of which market instruments such as carbon trading are a prominent feature, does not allow for optimism in solving the environmental problem.
the resolution states that, irrespective of the outcome of international negotiations, it is in the eu's interest to set a climate protection target of more than 20%, as this would have the effect of simultaneously creating green jobs, growth and security.
the establishment of a green climate fund to support the transition to low-carbon and climate-resilient development in developing countries is also called for.
i must, however, make clear my opposition to carbon trading mechanisms and i regret that intellectual property rights are given more weight than the fight against climate change.
− the european parliament must be firm in its defence of the kyoto protocol and the reduction of co2 emissions in the period after 2012. the adoption of this resolution at the climate change conference in durban, south africa, from 28 november to 9 december, brings with it greater responsibilities for the eu to go further in reducing co2 by 20% by 2020, which could help to stimulate the european economy.
the difference) between current levels of ambition and the levels required to keep global warming below 2°c.
- i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the durban climate change conference (cop 17), which sets out the european parliament's concerns and calls on the parties to ensure that a fair, ambitious and legally binding post-2012 comprehensive international agreement is reached, based on the international system based on the rules of the kyoto protocol, consistent with the 2°c target and the peak of national and global greenhouse gas emissions in the shortest possible time.
− the next conference on climate change, to be held in durban from 28 november to 9 december 2011 (17th conference of the parties), is another opportunity to adopt a new political strategy to address the climate change facing the planet.
in this context, there are a number of points which the european union must consider to be unassailable: to take the lead in adopting measures to ensure the environmental sustainability of the economy, to push for a decision-making process based on respect for the principle of majority voting, to strengthen support for research into environmentally less polluting technologies and to support the resulting structural adjustment of the economy.
− in 2009, the european commission published the white paper entitled 'climate change adaptation: towards a european framework for action' aimed at reducing the european union's vulnerability to the impact of climate change, presenting an overall strategy, concrete objectives and metrics, as well as potential funding instruments.
i am voting in favour of this resolution because i consider it important to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to take measures to deal with the impacts of climate change.
i believe it is urgent that the european union sets itself more ambitious targets than the 20% reduction set for 2020 and introduces new measures to reduce emissions from aviation and shipping, which were not included in the kyoto protocol.
the european union's development policy should aim at removing structural obstacles to the objective of poverty eradication and be consistent across the various policy areas, such as agriculture, trade, investment, tax havens, access to raw materials or climate change.
we must commit ourselves to coherent policies in the fields of agriculture, trade, investment, access to raw materials and the fight against climate change, with development prospects for the world's poorest countries.
− cultural industries make a significant contribution to local development by making regions more attractive and promoting sustainable tourism and generating new job opportunities.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one.
the iter project aims to develop fusion energy.
it will be a clean, sustainable energy, and it will contribute to the fight against climate change and security of supply.
issues of policy, governance, sustainability and maritime surveillance are, for obvious reasons, issues of particular interest to some regions of the european union, such as the outermost regions.
madam president, the nature and specific features of the marine environment, the enormous diversity and increasing activity which is taking place in it today, and the need to regulate these activities by resolving potential conflicts in a socially and environmentally sustainable way, make it advisable to develop an integrated maritime policy to this end.
on the contrary, a maritime policy based on cooperation between member states, which naturally recognises the transboundary nature of the sea but respects the sovereignty and competences of states, promotes synergies, adds value and promotes the sustainable use and conservation of marine resources - this imp could undoubtedly have positive impacts.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
protection against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is also of decisive importance for the sustainability of resources and the activity of azorean fishing communities.
the european union must therefore be involved and give priority to the appropriate means of monitoring and control which can counteract this threat and monitor and control illegal activities which waste our resources, endanger them and threaten the survival of our fishing communities.
− i welcome this report because it provides pmi with a stable financial framework for the period 2011-2013 to consolidate previous projects in the areas of policy, governance, sustainability and surveillance, although i consider that the amounts involved still leave doubts about the existence of a strong determination to design a european maritime policy with an eye to the future.
- i voted in favour of the report on the deepening of the integrated maritime policy (imp), as i considered positive the agreement reached with the council to set the financial allocation for the implementation of the objectives of the imp at eur 40 000 000 over the next two years, in particular as regards the implementation of projects in the areas of governance, sustainability and surveillance.
these figures clearly demonstrate the importance of the sea and, with it, the importance of a transversal and integrated maritime policy, which makes it possible to exploit all the potential that the sea has as an economic and energy resource, as a creator of jobs and wealth and as a driver of competitiveness and innovation.
in addition, member states should pool synergies in order to share information and collaborate, taking into account the sustainable use and protection of marine and coastal resources.
the aim at this stage is to make it possible to finance studies on aspects such as the protection and preservation of the marine environment, or to support the formulation of policies relating to the sea or coastal areas, in particular in the fields of economic development, employment, environmental protection, research, maritime safety, energy and the development of green marine technologies.
− the nature and specificities of the marine environment, the enormous diversity of activities taking place in it today (and the trend is increasing) and the need to regulate these activities by addressing potential conflicts in a socially and environmentally sustainable way, call for the development of an integrated maritime policy to this end.
on the contrary, a maritime policy based on cooperation between member states, respecting their sovereignty and competences, promoting synergies, adding value and promoting the sustainable use and conservation of marine resources could undoubtedly have positive impacts.
the eu's integrated maritime policy, established in 2007, advocates an integrated approach to the management and governance of oceans, seas, coastal areas, islands and outermost regions, and promotes the interaction of all eu policies related to the maritime domain, such as transport, fisheries, tourism, environmental protection and biodiversity.
in a matter of such wide scope, a policy-refinement support programme must set clear objectives, establish transparent funding rules and involve all community actors in the decision-making process - even more so when the proposed funding amounts to eur 50 million for the period 2011-2013. in general, this is a worthwhile strategy, which takes the sea as a source of economic and environmental wealth and as a field that requires specific responses.
- i approve the report, stressing that the iter research project is useful because it concerns one of the possible sources of energy for the future in europe and because, bringing added value to the eu, it should deserve adequate funding.
the iter project aims to develop fusion energy.
it will be a clean, sustainable energy and will contribute to the fight against climate change and security of supply.
− nuclear energy safety has been at the heart of european concerns, in particular following the recent events in fukushima.
i believe that research should be continued, in particular to strengthen the safety of nuclear fission, waste management processes, decommissioning and decommissioning and other applications of radiation in industry and medicine, as well as to improve nuclear physical safety (nuclear safeguards, non-proliferation, combating illicit trafficking and nuclear forensic investigation).
in the specific case of the european atomic energy community, it is important that funds are well used to safeguard potential safety risks as well as in research towards the discovery of cleaner atomic energy with less environmental risks.
it is important that we continue to invest in nuclear research and training activities so that we can have access to safer nuclear energy.
- the use of nuclear energy is currently on the agenda.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the community's energy policy.
on the one hand, research is essential for the development of energy production techniques, and on the other hand it is the only way to reduce the risks associated with the use of this energy source.
this report aims to stimulate the development of the three major european cooperation initiatives in the field of nuclear science and technology defined in the framework programme for 2012-2013, namely the technology platform for sustainable nuclear energy (snetp), the technology platform for the implementation of geological removal (igd-tp) and the european multidisciplinary low dose initiative (melodi).
i would also stress the importance attached to the issue of energy efficiency, which, despite the crisis, must remain on the agenda.
georgia's commitment to eu values and principles of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights are key to the successful implementation of the association agreement, while ensuring a sustainable impact on the country's development.
as on other occasions in other parts of the world, what is at stake is the assertion of these interests, ensuring access to important resources throughout the region and energy supply, for which the conclusion of this agreement is important.
what is at stake is access to important resources throughout the region and guarantees of energy supply, for which the conclusion of this agreement is important.
− illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing is a serious and growing problem worldwide that undermines conservation and stock management efforts in all types of capture fisheries, leads to the loss of economic and social opportunities in both the short and medium term, and has negative repercussions on food security and environmental protection.
- unfortunately, illegal fishing exists and has very negative and harmful effects on the formal economy at the global level, as well as on the sustainable preservation of our natural resources.
i therefore believe that it is possible to combat (organized or sporadic) crime in the fishing sector and to promote the formal, transparent and sustainable development of this activity through greater cooperation between the member states and at european level.
in addition to the environmental consequences, this is a practice that also has extremely harmful economic and social consequences, in some cases with prolongations and links to organized crime.
− the fight against illegal fishing is of great importance as it represents one of the most serious threats to ocean biodiversity and a source of unfair competition for fishermen who respect the rules in force.
the volume of catches from illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing has been estimated at between 11 and 26 million tonnes per year, equivalent to at least 15% of global catches, making sustainable management of the world's marine resources economically, socially and environmentally unfeasible.
the existence of a fair competitive market depends on fisheries regulation, but also, and above all, on the very sustainability of certain fish species and the balance of the ecosystem.
it involves horizontal policies such as health, social and consumer protection, labour law, the environment and sustainable development.
in research, ecological sustainability, territorial cohesion and social solidarity, this budget has no power to compensate for or correct the national austerity policies that are being pursued across europe.
these are the entrepreneurship programme, innovation, research in smes, erasmus mundus and scientific research in the field of energy.
first, it is essential to take action and allocate the necessary funding to transform the eu into a smart, inclusive and sustainable economy by reducing unemployment, increasing productivity and strengthening social cohesion.
within the priority areas of the eu budget, i would like to mention a few examples, namely the programme for entrepreneurship and innovation, erasmus mundus and research in the field of energy and smes.
- i approve this report because it is in line with what was established by the conciliation committee, but i deeply regret the climate of mistrust that prevailed during the negotiations between the commission and the member states as regards the level of additional payment appropriations needed in 2011 for the commission to be able to meet the union's legal obligations.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
bagnoliafutura spa accuses the member of parliament of posting on its website statements blaming it for delays and waste of public funds, for inaction and inefficiency, and for engaging in an activity which it classifies as a combination of politics and delinquency.
lugi de magistris defended himself by arguing that he had disseminated information relating to a written question to the european commission concerning irregularities found by the commission and the alleged waste of public funds.
since luigi de magistris also requested additional information on the alleged waste of public funds in the naples area, where the activities of the company bagnolifutura are carried out, by publishing those press releases, luigi de magistris was acting in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament.
it also confirmed that the provisions on large projects, revenue-generating projects and the sustainability of operations do not apply to financial engineering instruments.
− the eu's outermost regions are affected by a number of structural factors affecting their social and economic situation and development, such as remoteness, insularity, small size, difficult topography and climate, and economic dependence on a small number of products.
these are the cases of remoteness, insularity, small area, difficult terrain and climate and economic dependence on a small number of products.
these measures will support economic diversification or investment policies to increase competitiveness as well as social and environmental impact.
they will also contribute to poverty reduction and the gradual integration of banana-exporting acp (african, caribbean and pacific) countries into the world economy, supporting sustainable development.
in africa alone, some 500 000 people depend on the banana sector for their livelihoods, which is considered a pillar of sustainable development, enabling the establishment of health, water, energy and housing infrastructure.
i support the report because it contains measures to support existing social and environmental changes, to establish policies of economic diversification and to structure investments with a view to increasing their competitiveness.
i am voting in favour of this report because it includes measures to support existing social and environmental changes, to establish policies of economic diversification and to structure investments with a view to increasing their competitiveness.
i stress the importance of energy security and public diplomacy for the community's interests and for the eradication of poverty in regions such as central asia and the middle east.
the eu must support sustainable development and the implementation of support programmes must be as transparent as possible.
it is also important that these funds motivate people to respect human rights, to comply with the rules set by the international labour organisation (ilo) and to contribute to the reduction of co2 by combating climate change.
− in february 2010, i wrote that croatia had been meeting the accession criteria with undeniable success, that it had made efforts to persevere on this path despite the additional difficulties posed by the international environment, and that croatia was a good example for other countries seeking to join the european union.
examples of these changes are: criticism of the measures of the troika's (ec, ecb and imf) programmes of genuine aggression and the so-called austerity policies followed; the defence of an effective fiscal stabilisation policy, which takes account of growth and aims at the redistribution of wealth, sustainable development, job creation and social progress; the need to reverse neoliberal economic policies to overcome the crisis.
some of these changes are as follows: calls on the member states, the council and the commission to take account of the strong and growing opposition of the peoples of europe to the harsh measures of the troika's rescue package and the austerity policies pursued; considers that budgetary policy is an important instrument in the management of economic and development policy, but the introduction of the european semester and the stifling effects of the early coordination of budgetary policy will deprive member states of the capacity and flexibility needed to pursue an effective stabilisation policy aimed at redistribution of wealth, sustainable development and job creation, providing an adequate set of public services and infrastructure for citizens; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
it is emphasised that the single market contributes to innovation, which, supported by initiatives coordinated by the european commission and the commitment of the member states, will create new opportunities for businesses, in particular smes, thus fostering job creation and social cohesion, as well as providing sustainable economic growth and responding to the social needs of eu consumers and citizens.
at a time when everything is being played out at european level, i would like to stress the importance of the single market for european integration itself, for greater social cohesion, sustainable development, competitiveness and economic growth, which will enable us to face the constraints of today and future developments and to compete in a globalised world.
i am voting in favour of this resolution and welcome the attention paid to smes, the real engine of the european economy, which can help to overcome the current economic and financial crisis by means of sustainable economic growth, thus making the single market economy increasingly dynamic and competitive.
ukraine's efforts are directed towards developing a european perspective for the country, in particular by consolidating internal political stability, creating an environment characterised by sound political pluralism, democratic freedoms and respect for the rule of law.
- i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider that it contains important recommendations for strengthening the existing framework of cooperation between the eu and ukraine in various fields, in particular the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, energy and trade relations.
- ukraine, because of its geostrategic importance and natural resources (including energy), has been a preferred target for the european union.
ukraine's efforts to consolidate internal political stability, to create an environment characterised by strong political pluralism, democratic freedoms and respect for the rule of law, and to further internal reforms are facilitating the development of the country's european perspective.
i am aware that customs play a crucial role in ensuring safety, protecting consumers and the environment, ensuring the full collection of revenue, strengthening the fight against fraud and corruption and ensuring respect for intellectual property rights, and i hereby express my support for their modernisation.
the assessment carried out is clearly negative, either from the economic point of view, taking into account the usefulness of the agreement for the member states' fleets, or from the ecological point of view, taking into account the dangerous state of conservation of several stocks, or from the point of view of the positive impact on the moroccan fishing sector, which is extremely small or nonexistent, as in other cases.
however, it is required that the european union's action at international level be consistent with the principles and objectives of the cfp, in particular the sustainability and preservation of marine ecosystems.
in this context, the new sustainable fisheries agreement between the european union and morocco should be guided by sustainable management of fisheries resources through a transparency clause ensuring that exploitation of resources by community vessels in third country waters is limited to resources that they cannot or do not intend to capture.
however, i would stress the concerns expressed by the committee on industry, energy and research and parliament in general about the source of funding, namely funding iter but without prejudice to the funding allocated to the science and innovation framework programme of the seventh framework programme.
there is no denying our support for the iter project in view of the international commitments it has made, the importance it has for future energy sustainability and its contribution to european technological development.
the reality is quite different and the truth is that the liberalization and deregulation of world trade have led to phenomena of social dumping, environmental dumping, which we cannot ignore here, either by putting in competition labour from different origins, lowering, forcing a devaluation of the labour force, or by the unsustainable flows of energy and material which are necessarily associated with it.
mr president, the european council was a waste of time.
however, i would stress the concerns expressed by the committee on industry, energy and research as to the origin of the funding.
the iter project is designed to study fusion energy.
the search for more abundant, cheap and clean sources of energy must be a political priority for the union and the member states, and the union should not be excluded from projects in which it is involved which pursue that objective.
the iter (international thermonuclear experimental reactor) project is the most ambitious initiative in the history of nuclear energy, both scientifically and financially, involving thousands of scientists worldwide.
despite the controversy surrounding this project, in general terms we consider it important that energy research can continue in order to overcome the risks and limitations of the forms of energy currently available.
such research should consider a multiplicity of options, with renewable sources given priority.
despite the controversy surrounding this project, in general terms we consider it important that energy research can continue in order to overcome the risks and limitations of the forms of energy currently available.
such research should consider a multiplicity of options, with renewable sources given priority.
− the importance of the iter project, which is intended to study fusion energy, justifies the need to increase the funds needed to maintain, develop and deliver the project.
the constant search for alternatives to the energies currently used leads us to seek more abundant, cheap and clean sources of energy, and the union should not therefore withdraw from the projects in which it is involved which pursue this objective.
the relevance of projects aimed at the search for new, renewable, alternative, socially and environmentally sustainable energy sources, which accelerate the abandonment of nuclear fission, is recognised; secondly, it is of key importance to ensure that iter's supplementary funding needs do not render unfeasible or jeopardise the funding of research projects and programmes in this and other areas, in particular by ensuring that all provisions of the 2006 interinstitutional agreement (iia) continue to apply.
the solidarity fund is mainly used in cases of major natural disasters with serious repercussions on the living conditions of citizens, the natural environment or the economy of one or more regions of a member state or of a country applying for accession to the european union.
i hope that the egf will help them to find work again and i hope that the european economy can react with energy and creativity to this difficult time.
as regards legal migration, the eu should develop migration policies that fully respect the competences of the member states, with the aim of helping them to meet current and future labour needs, contributing to the sustainable development of all countries.
if, on the one hand, legal labour migration, especially skilled labour, helps to combat illegal work and can help the competitiveness of the economy and help to overcome existing shortcomings, on the other hand we must not forget that in a period of crisis and economic vulnerability, when unemployment is increasing, labour migration policy must be flexible, but it must also be sustainable and reasonable.
- i voted in favour of this directive, as i consider that a second reading is necessary, given the council's position at first reading, of the report on certain provisions applicable to fisheries in the gfcm agreement area and on amendments to the regulation on management measures for the sustainable exploitation of resources in the mediterranean sea.
regulation (ec) no 1967/2006 already in force respects the measures for the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea and should be amended accordingly.
the recommendation under consideration is to adopt a european parliament and council directive on certain rules applicable to fishing in the area covered by the agreement of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), and also to amend council regulation (ec) no 1967/2006 on the implementation of measures to encourage sustainable exploitation of marine resources in the mediterranean sea.
i welcome the adoption of this recommendation, which is aimed at seeking, on the basis of scientific studies, to strengthen fish species in order not to aggravate the environmental situation of one of the most important areas of the marine world and to ensure fisheries resources for future generations.
regulation (ec) no 1967/2006, which is already in force, respects the measures for the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea and should be amended accordingly.
this is because at the same time there are difficult questions of both food and environmental nature and because, finally, given the extreme mobility of fish stocks, abusive behaviour by any individual in a given area can damage the fisheries resources of other states.
− in february 2009, the european commission presented a proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the annual accounts of certain types of companies, in particular as regards micro-entities, with the aim of simplifying the business environment and, in particular, the financial reporting requirements for micro-entities, in order to enhance their competitiveness and realise their growth potential.
- i voted in favour of the report because i think it is a good report, promoting, among other things, the fight against unfair competition, the removal of unjustified non-tariff barriers, the strengthening of respect for intellectual property rights, the protection of eu consumers and, in particular, the protection of the environment inside and outside the eu.
the defence of each country's right to produce in a sustainable way is a requirement for the future.
in the name of a new economic, social, energy and environmental rationality, which the neoliberal model not only does not guarantee, but makes impossible.
we are faced with yet another unbridled apology for the liberalization and deregulation of international trade without taking into account the different degrees of development of countries, or even the right of each country to produce in a sustainable way.
i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that non-tariff barriers to european countries must be removed or reduced, international regulatory cooperation must be improved, foreign direct investment in the european economy in key markets must be stimulated and a stable and attractive environment must be created for european investors abroad.
the idea is to give a voice to citizens as well as to all civil society movements that identify with our values, by supporting organized movements that strive to achieve positive and democratic change in their countries, improving the rights of women and children, building and deepening the principles of freedom, whether of expression, association, religious belief, press, choice, etc., with fair elections, fighting corruption, a rule of law, greater social justice, respect for minorities, environmental protection and resource efficiency.
fruit juices produced in the european union are high quality products, manufactured according to sustainability standards, and contribute to a healthy and balanced diet.
these points, at a time when the european union is renewing its commitment to ecological sustainability, should be taken into account in the regulation of the fruit juice market.
if we take into account the environmental impact of phosphate in european waters, it is urgent to drastically reduce the introduction of phosphate products and derivatives into european waters, which thus reduce their quality year by year.
there are alternatives to the use of derivatives of this component, and i would stress the need for greater environmental awareness on the part of detergent manufacturers, as well as on the part of european citizens themselves, in the choice of products they use.
- i voted in favour of the report on the use of phosphates and other phosphorus compounds in household laundry detergents, as it includes rules which will allow phosphates to be removed not only from laundry detergents but also from dishwashing detergents, which will be very positive for the protection of water quality and the environment in the eu.
this regulation is often intended to protect consumers and sometimes the environment and natural resources, as is the case with this regulation on the use of phosphates in household detergents.
the excessive growth of algae and other rapidly developing plants, which causes a sharp decrease in dissolved oxygen in the water, causing the death of aquatic life in these areas and significantly affecting biodiversity, with serious consequences for water quality and public health.
given the possibility of minimising the impact of this element on the environment and the fact that detergents for domestic use with a very low phosphorus concentration and with an effective action already exist, this regulation makes a positive contribution to a better environment, better living conditions and public health.
the excessive growth of algae and other rapidly developing plants, which causes a sharp decrease in dissolved oxygen in the water, causing the death of aquatic life in these areas, significantly affecting biodiversity, with serious consequences for water quality and public health.
given the possibility of minimising the impact of this element on the environment and the fact that detergents for domestic use with a very low phosphorus concentration and with an effective action already exist, this regulation makes a positive contribution to a better environment, better living conditions and public health.
this will make detergents for washing and dishes more environmentally friendly, which is extremely important to ensure the protection of the environment, in particular the aquatic environment, and the proper functioning of the internal market for these products.
the aim is to ensure the protection of the environment, in particular the aquatic environment, and the proper functioning of the internal market for these products.
detergents contribute significantly to the introduction of phosphate into the aquatic environment and alternatives to the use of phosphates in detergents are currently available.
these measures give greater protection to rivers, lakes, marine habitats and the whole ecosystem and all wildlife, and i voted in favour of them.
this is a proposal which, on the surface, seems to deserve applause, in that it seems to offer, at a small cost, great environmental benefits.
- i voted in favour of this report because the current fisheries partnership agreement is coming to an end and a new, more favourable agreement on environmental sustainability is already in preparation.
the rejection of the agreement shows that it is not viable from an economic point of view (it is one of the most expensive fisheries agreements the eu has with a third country) or from an ecological point of view, given the dangerous state of conservation of several stocks.
the protocol, signed in may 2006, sets out the fishing opportunities for eu vessels, taking into account the available surplus and, at the same time, the financial compensation on utilisation, the second highest rate in the eu, and support for the sustainable development of the sector.
despite the many divergent issues regarding the outcomes/consequences of this agreement, particularly with regard to cost-effectiveness, species sustainability, environmental issues and the western sahara issue, i think it will be important to extend the agreement for another three months and, at the same time, to start negotiations on a new protocol to the fisheries agreement that addresses the shortcomings described above.
- having regard to the report of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection (a7-0619/2011), i voted in favour, since new members are entitled to take their seats in the european parliament and its bodies, to enjoy their rights fully, and to participate fully in interparliamentary delegations, in delegations to joint parliamentary committees and in delegations to parliamentary cooperation committees and multilateral parliamentary assemblies.
the ecb, based in frankfurt, germany, is headed by an executive board composed of a president, a vice-president and four vice-presidents, appointed by the european council after consulting the ep and the governing council for a non-renewable term of office of eight years.
i therefore urge the commission to draw up as soon as possible a new economic, ecological and socially sustainable agreement with morocco, not only to continue to support the moroccan populations so in need of support, but also to allow the fishing fleets licensed for that region to resume their activities.
to say so is not to promote waste and certainly not war.
the economic and financial crisis facing all member states in general is forcing a rethinking of the priorities of a government which, while not forgetting the need for economic growth, should take measures of social and environmental protection which do not compromise the future.
the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the threat of nuclear power stations being shut down.
i would like to see more effort made to move the eu-russia modernisation partnership forward because i believe that modernisation will promote reforms, give new impetus to eu-russia relations and develop mutually beneficial cooperation in the fields of trade, economy and energy security, while contributing to the overall economic recovery.
- i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that relations between the eu and russia must take account not only of economic and energy aspects but also of respect for and promotion of democracy and human rights.
issues such as energy problems, terrorism, afghanistan and iran, corruption, respect for human rights and the establishment of democracy should be high on the agenda of this summit.
after all, its energy dependence is well known.
it is also worth noting that these two regions are privileged economic partners, particularly in the energy sector, and that russia, in addition to its ties with europe, is above all one of the world's great powers.
despite the importance of this strategic partner, particularly in energy supply, the eu must speak with one voice and must not forget its basic principles, which it imposes on other partners.
- i voted in favour of this report because i advocate a revision of the european neighbourhood policy based on the promotion of democracy and human rights, in particular women's rights, the fight against corruption and the promotion of sustainable development.
however, if the eu provides financial support, it cannot but require these countries to make certain commitments, such as respect for human rights and the freedoms and guarantees of citizens, the implementation of good governance and the rule of law, the fight against corruption, respect for minorities, environmental protection, etc.
we must also acknowledge the efforts that some partners have been making in terms of a commitment to building a sustainable democracy and ensure a permanent dialogue to encourage all the reforms already under way, taking into account, of course, the specific economic development of each partner country.
emsa, which provides technical support and assistance in the field of maritime safety and security in the area of pollution caused by ships, has been playing an increasingly important role in the protection of the marine environment.
these are the prevention and response mechanisms in case of environmental disasters related to oil and gas exploration platforms.
only a global approach will make the oil and gas sector safer and will help to deal with the environmental, economic and social damage caused by accidents at sea.
madam president, commissioner, allow me to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his work and to stress my support for strengthening the capacity to prevent, assist and combat marine pollution, particularly on oil and gas platforms.
the report refers to environmental objectives, energy efficiency, decarbonisation, interoperability - all very well - but in doing so it immediately tries to make clear what is really coming.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new system of national energy tariffs, the introduction of a new system of national energy tariffs, and the introduction of a new system of national energy tariffs.
the promotion of energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy are of crucial importance for economic growth and job creation in europe.
this programme and its implementing agency have contributed significantly to the implementation of legislation in the field of renewable energy and energy efficiency, in particular through support for innovative projects.
in this context, i would like to ask the commission the following: first, what does the commission intend to do to ensure a prominent place for the intelligent energy europe programme in the future multiannual budget for 2014-2020?
thirdly, what is the institutional framework for the successor of this intelligent energy europe programme within horizon 2020 and what level of funding will be allocated to it?
if there is one way in which the european union can assert itself in the knowledge economy, it is by clearly supporting the production of energy from renewable sources.
in this case, support for prospecting surveys is necessary because of the possibility of creating a renewable energy cluster.
the island of são miguel, for example, already consumes about 50% of its electricity from geothermal energy.
graciosa is about to become the first island in the world to be powered by 100 percent renewable energy.
it is necessary to identify risk factors associated with corruption, fraud, project sustainability, subcontractors and other sources of waste or misuse of funds.
− i voted in favour of this report because i agree with its premises, namely that the commitment to sustainable and long-term development in afghanistan be maintained and that adequate resources be made available after 2014, when the responsibility for security will be fully vested in the afghan authorities and other donors can start to reduce their funding.
despite the progress made in its operation, there are still many areas to be improved, such as the control of state aid which distorts markets and is only acceptable in an initial situation as a response to the crisis, the fight against monopolies, transparency in the functioning of the banking sector, public procurement, the energy market, air transport, etc.
− emsa, which provides technical support and assistance on maritime safety and security in the area of pollution caused by ships, has been increasingly important in the defence of the marine environment.
these are: prevention and response mechanisms in the event of environmental disasters related to oil and gas exploration platforms.
only a global approach will make the oil and gas sector safer and cope with the environmental, economic and social damage caused by any accidents on the high seas.
in this respect, i believe that the present tran report goes against the objectives already identified for the realisation of the future european maritime area without barriers to be achieved: better assistance to member states in the event of pollution from gas or oil platforms by including assistance to our neighbouring countries in reducing marine pollution or in the event of disaster, as well as the introduction of new procedures to improve the governance of the agency.
- i voted in favour of the report because i believe that this agency has made an important contribution to the protection of the environment by limiting the number of maritime accidents and the damage they cause.
− the emsa was set up in 2003 in response to the erika oil tanker disaster and the environmental contingencies it created.
i believe that this task is essential in the economic climate europe is currently experiencing, since the sea can create important business and trade opportunities which can and must be encouraged.
the mission of the agency is to provide technical assistance and support for maritime protection in situations of pollution caused by ships, and therefore it plays a crucial role in the protection of the marine environment.
both ocean protection and the creation of pollution control or control mechanisms must be seen on a global scale in order to save resources and streamline procedures.
in the light of the experience of the emsa, it is necessary to extend its powers and to provide it with the means to strengthen the fight against pollution and piracy, as well as the support and surveillance of fishing and transport vessels.
i welcome the adoption of this proposal which will extend the powers of the emsa, thereby contributing to our enjoyment of a healthier, more protected and more capable aquatic environment for the survival of future generations.
− as a purported response to the erika oil tanker accident, the european maritime safety agency was set up in 2003. based on legitimate environmental concerns, this agency imposes itself on a large scale on national authorities and jurisdictions, imbued with the federalist and centralist spirit of the eu, trampling on the sovereignty of member states in their maritime strategies, especially those with important exclusive economic zones, such as portugal, the eu country with the largest maritime area.
in the end, the initial, legitimate environmental concerns are dissolved into exaggerated supranational instruments and policies, usurping responsibilities and powers which belong only to each member state, including its strategies and policies of cooperation with the other countries of the union and third countries.
it is in this context that the european maritime safety agency was set up to assist the commission and the member states in matters of maritime safety, the protection of maritime transport and the prevention of pollution caused by ships.
the amendments will allow for greater efficiency gains and lower costs, taking an important step towards an ambitious european maritime policy and developing rapid response tools to prevent damage caused by maritime disasters that can have very serious environmental and economic consequences.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the marine environment against pollution caused by nitrates from the production of certain products.
the creation of a single european transport area as an objective of the future european transport policy is therefore intrinsically linked to regional, environmental, economic, social and employment policy.
i would also stress the importance attached to environmental issues through the decarbonisation of this sector and through a clear commitment to research and the development of intelligent management systems for all modes of transport.
now, in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, we must take into account fundamental aspects such as road safety in order to reduce the number of deaths and injuries, environmental protection (with a halving of co2 emissions), green energy sources and economic sustainability.
the creation of a single european transport area, as the objective of the future european transport policy, is therefore intrinsically linked to regional, environmental, economic, social and employment policy.
− the transport white paper, horizon 2050, sets out a strategic policy for all modes of transport under two premises: sustainability and efficiency.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
− in the current economic climate, the simplification and flexibility of all rules allowing greater mobility of professionals is an essential requirement for a sustainable economic recovery.
the eu has launched important initiatives and programmes to support the priorities set out in its initial document, and i would highlight those which focused on good governance, the rule of law, human rights and democratisation; education and training; economic development, trade and investment; transport and energy; environmental sustainability and water management; tackling threats and responding to common challenges; intercultural dialogue.
- i voted in favour of the report because it aims to strengthen cooperation between the eu and central asia by promoting better management of the region's water and energy resources, as well as the defence of human rights, the rule of law and regional security.
in addition to russia, china and the united states have strategic interests in central asia, seeking to secure control of energy sources and raw materials.
i therefore think that the eu should rigorously reassess its strategy and strengthen its involvement, focusing on the objectives and actions that are most likely to contribute to addressing the most pressing challenges: human rights and the rule of law, water and energy, and regional security.
the eu rapporteur's perspective is to rigorously reassess the eu strategy and to strengthen its participation, focusing on the objectives and actions most likely to contribute to addressing the most pressing challenges, which he considers to be human rights and the rule of law, water and energy, and regional security.
the cooperation priorities underpinning this partnership are consistent with those established with other third countries, in particular in the fields of human rights, the rule of law, good governance and democracy, education, economic development, trade and investment, energy and transport, the environment, intercultural dialogue and common challenges and threats.
the cooperation priorities underpinning this partnership are consistent with those established with other third countries, in particular in the fields of human rights, the rule of law, good governance and democracy, education, economic development, trade and investment, energy and transport, the environment, intercultural dialogue and common challenges and threats.