the building of a socially and environmentally sustainable timber industry, including by reducing deforestation and forest degradation in these countries, should also be pursued.
the agreements must respect the european union's international commitments on the environment and sustainable development.
countries which adhere to such voluntary schemes are able to give certain guarantees about the legality and environmental sustainability of their timber sources.
there are clear benefits in terms of environmental protection, although we should be mindful of the fact that trade in legally harvested timber is not necessarily sensitive to needs of indigenous people.
the european commission must therefore ensure that the future partnership agreement will contribute both to the development of a sustainable, job-creating local fisheries industry and to closer regional integration, for example by negotiating the future agreement with the pacific region as a whole.
the principle of the best interests of the child and not of the adopter, as enshrined in the un convention and the hague convention, must underpin the european parliament's resolution, focusing on the development of the child in a family environment, ensuring continuity in the child's upbringing and taking into account the child's ethnic, religious, cultural and linguistic background.
agriculture is neglected in the debate on the eu's strategy and future, and the report shows that europe is not food secure, that farmers and entire rural areas are in danger of disappearing, and that new challenges such as climate change are threatening to destabilise already dwindling food supplies, not only in europe but also in the world.
first, we need a strong common agricultural policy designed to guarantee the food security of its citizens and to contribute to global food security in the context of limited resources and the effects of climate change.
buildings must also be energy efficient, with the lowest possible energy consumption over their lifetime and thus lower costs for users.
i believe that the intensity of natural disasters is also due to human actions that are at the root of climate change.
as regards the evolution of the context, it is first necessary to mention the significant increase in the number and intensity of natural disasters, mainly caused by climate change.
we have seen a significant increase in the number and intensity of natural disasters, mainly caused by the impact of climate change, a multiplication of complex crises, especially internal conflicts, and an evolution in the nature of conflicts, which are often accompanied by massive population displacements.
− the european union has a duty to respond to the challenges of food security, the supply of high-quality food, environmental protection, rural diversity, and maintaining territorial balance by improving rural living conditions.
pillar i of the cap should cover compensatory payments for less-favoured agricultural areas and agri-environmental payments, thus helping to prevent the abandonment of agricultural land and to compensate for the environmental benefits of extensive farming practices.
therefore, to create food security, a strong, market-oriented, distinct and environmentally responsible common agricultural policy (cap) is still needed, which also has a significant rural development component and which also addresses other challenges, in particular climate change, the economic crisis and preserving the territorial balance within the eu.
given that more and more european families, especially in the context of the economic crisis and the rising unemployment rate, are spending more than 10% of their monthly income on paying their energy bills, i would like to ask you what concrete measures the european commission is considering to reduce energy poverty.
i would also like to ask you whether you are considering a significant increase in the percentage of the european regional development fund that can be used by member states to increase the energy efficiency of housing, starting with the future financial perspective.
these reservations do not represent romania's opposition to cross-border healthcare, they expressed the romanian government's concern about financial sustainability, about the size of cross-border healthcare that it can receive, because, as you know very well, there are member states with very low national income.
the adoption of this report helps to ensure a good balance between the rights of eu patients to access the best medical treatment and the protection of the financial sustainability of the national social security system.
the report supports solidarity between countries, the exchange of good practices, to avoid duplication of effort and waste of resources.
to the concern for solving the problems of the million haitians surviving in the emergency camps, where poverty, misery and sexual violence are reaching worrying proportions, we owe it to add the long-term perspective of sustainable investment in haiti and concrete support for the construction of a viable state structure.
with regard to other eternal objectives set out in the presidency programme, such as achieving a common energy policy, what we need is to identify energy interests and needs common to all the member states.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the involvement of civil society in the conclusion of the agreement is positive and should continue, as it provides external oversight of the progress of the process of eliminating fraud and developing sustainable trade.
the specific characteristics of the area, given the fisheries and the activities in the fisheries sector and the industry, present the highest potential for future export growth, provided that the fishing activities are carried out in an environmentally sustainable manner.
all of these are key factors in the process of transforming the western balkans into an area of long-term stability and sustainable development.
− mr president, on behalf of vice-president almunia, who is unable to be here this morning, i would firstly like to thank the rapporteur, mr eppink, for his work on the report on competition policy 2009. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs in the committee on industry, research and energy, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, and the committee on transport, ms koch-mehrin, mr buşoi and mr cramer.
we share your view that competition is essential to ensure a level playing field in the single market and to promote a sustainable exit from the crisis.
finally, i would like to refer to the concerns expressed about competition in specific sectors, such as energy, transport, the food supply chain and emerging digital industries.
these include the energy market, where regulated energy prices still distort competition; the completion of the single railway market can also bring important benefits to european travellers.
i would like to conclude by saying that the implementation of a successful competition policy and the smooth functioning of the internal market are essential conditions for sustainable economic growth in the european union.
it's about strengthening the arctic council politically and administratively, it's about sustainable development of the region, and finally, i would remind you, it's about supporting the rights of indigenous peoples.
reporting for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
− the itre commission supports the full integration of energy markets and the regulatory framework, based on eu legislation, and encourages the participation of the states of the wider black sea region in the energy charter treaty, as well as eu, eib and ebrd assistance in upgrading the energy infrastructure in the region.
− madam president, commissioner, the importance of the black sea region for the eu from the transport, energy, stability, security and environmental point of view is evident.
the committee on regional development believes this strategy can bring growth and sustainable development for the region.
the use of an integrated approach and cross-border cooperation between the regions should be promoted in all fields of the strategy but in particular those of transport, energy and the environment.
its geostrategic importance can hardly be overstated, considering the regional stability, the democratisation processes, and the related energy security, economic and commercial issues.
we need to launch the energy and transport partnership alongside the environment partnership.
it is therefore imperative to create a union strategy for the black sea, with the same priority as the other regional strategies of the european union and focused on three main lines: economic, social and human development; energy, transport and environment, and security and good governance.
some key projects for the european economy, such as the nabucco pipeline, which would allow for greater energy independence, or the development of ports on the black sea, need to be boosted immediately and this can only be achieved under the aegis of a common strategy.
the region has significant energy production and supply potential and needs to be given more attention, in particular to ensure the union's energy security.
given that the eu's efforts have not been sufficiently well-defined and the black sea synergy has not reached its full potential, i express my hope that the european external action service will have the necessary human and material resources to complete the implementation of the three partnerships: environment, transport and energy.
i believe that the european union should encourage the countries of the black sea area to make appropriate use of natural environmental resources, to develop the area sustainably and to improve the quality of life in the area, and to build local and regional partnerships.
the black sea is also of particular importance for the eu's energy security.
the european commission must continue to place particular emphasis on energy projects planned in this region.
and this competition betrays their divergent interests, most often linked, explicitly or implicitly, to control of the energy transport routes in the area.
in this way, we will ensure more energy security for the future by implementing infrastructure projects such as the southern corridor or liquefied gas terminals, diversifying supply routes and sources.
we must also give due importance to linking the financial instruments available to the black sea region, ensuring the development and modernisation of ports and reducing pollution in the black sea region.
finally, i would like to stress the need to strike a balance between economic development and environmental protection, but also the need to fully implement the convention on the protection of the black sea against pollution.
the negative effects were felt on the economy and the business environment as well as on decision-makers.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european union needs a sound competition policy, based on the principle of open markets and fair competition in all sectors, which will create a successful internal market and foster the creation of sustainable and knowledge-based jobs.
−the effects of climate change are affecting the arctic region more than any other area.
the consequences of environmental and climate change, the geopolitics of shipping lanes and the security of supply of resources must be addressed.
given that the expansion of new economies leads to an increase in the need for resources, energy and minerals, it is natural that the eu should be interested in ensuring the security of supply of resources and energy needed by europe's population and industrial activities.
the eu can make a significant contribution to the sustainable development of the arctic, a region that will be of major importance to a world adapting to climate change, faced with a growing population and resource scarcity.
the subject that could bring immediate results is energy.
new energy sources in the caspian sea, as well as new routes, can develop the black sea area and, by implication, the danube area.
− the report is important also in that it refers to the importance of the black sea as a natural resource and to the environmental situation in this region; it should not be overlooked that there has been an unprecedented increase in fish mortality in the black sea in recent times.
the main pollutants affecting marine biodiversity are the dnieper, don, dniester and danube rivers (which each year dump 60,000 tonnes of phosphorus and 340 tonnes of inorganic nitrogen into the black sea).
other factors that contribute to the degradation of the black sea are overfishing and waste.
− the strategic importance of the black sea in terms of energy, trade and transport can sometimes mean that environmental concerns are sidelined.
in its 2007 communication on the black sea synergy, the commission stated that ‘community accession to the convention on the protection of the black sea against pollution is a priority’.
we must work with other partners under this framework to ensure full implementation of the environmental protection measures which the region desperately needs.
mr president, investing in energy infrastructure is to me the starting point in fulfilling our policy goals, ensuring that our citizens and businesses have access to secure and affordable energy in a functioning internal market and achieving the commission’s ambitious energy infrastructure package, which i see as a positive step.
but, overall, this crisis forces us to adopt a reasonable, open and integrated approach to our energy policy: first, by taking into consideration all components of the energy mix without considering them – or at least some of them – morally unacceptable, and secondly, with an integrated road map, reconciling our sometimes contradictory climate, supply security and competitiveness targets.
the energy summit can re-direct the union on the path to economic growth.
the ambition to become the world's most sustainable economy requires a new energy vision for europe.
there are new sources of energy in the black sea and the caspian sea that can be exploited for long periods.
we cannot discuss a common policy without a common energy grid.
interconnecting national networks is the first step towards a single internal market for energy.
it needs energy efficiency.
energy efficiency will have a huge impact on economic growth, ways to reduce co2 emissions, and job creation in it, construction and services.
at the european energy summit on 4 february, the union needs agreement at the highest political level on priority actions for the completion of the internal energy market, the development of energy infrastructure, and measures to reduce energy consumption, increase energy efficiency and promote renewable energies.
we need an action plan for at least ten years, which ensures both solidarity between member states in the event of serious disruptions in energy supply and increases energy security by diversifying energy supply routes and sources.
the union needs to modernise energy infrastructure and ensure interconnections between member states' energy infrastructures.
in this context, i would like to underline the geostrategic importance of the wider black sea region for the energy security of the european union.
the common energy market must be put at the service of the citizens, for whom the price of energy must remain affordable, and allow the eco-efficiency of european industry, ensuring both jobs in the european union and the development of the industrial sector.
for the european union to achieve its proposed objectives, the correct and rapid implementation of the third internal market, energy, gas and electricity package is a priority.
the development of energy infrastructure is a key element in ensuring the functioning of the internal energy market, and i would stress that particular emphasis should be placed on financing this infrastructure for the 2020 time horizon.
the european commission must present concrete figures on the investment needs and put forward the new instrument for financing energy infrastructure as soon as possible.
there are currently 27 energy markets in the eu, and their lack of interconnection is failing to meet europe's objectives of economic competitiveness and energy security.
in the absence of an integrated single market, eu energy policy cannot effectively address the problems of declining hydrocarbon reserves in europe, rising oil and gas prices, rising global energy demand and global warming.
i welcome commissioner oettinger's announcement of the ambitious deadline proposed by the ec for 2015 to be the deadline for completing the internal energy market.
only by taking a firm decision, as soon as possible, will it be possible to begin the construction and consolidation of the single energy market and the common policy in this field.
these are the only elements that can ensure, in the medium and long term, the safety and energy security of all.
i consider it of particular importance to implement financial instruments in countries such as turkmenistan and iraq, which can provide energy resources through strategic projects such as nabucco.
and here i would like to mention: through the joint declaration of the presidents of romania and turkmenistan, an energy partnership was established in the exploitation and transport of natural gas and oil, including through the transfer of experience and equipment.
waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) is the fastest growing waste stream in the eu.
proper weee management helps to reuse valuable resources, with major effects on the environment, public health and the creation of green jobs.
the revision of the directive has allowed for new targets for the collection, recycling and reuse of weee (a recycling target of 50-75% - depending on the category, up from 10 to 6 - and a new reuse target of 5%), as well as tougher measures to prevent the export of electronic waste to developing countries.
electronic goods manufacturers will have to ensure that waste treatment is funded, with a positive impact by adhering to ecodesign rules, creating products that are easy to repair and recycle.
the proposal for a directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment, as sent to the european parliament by the commission, is unclear and therefore member states may interpret the types of equipment covered by this directive differently.
in addition, the commission will have to develop a common methodology to determine the amount of waste generated in each member state, but this amount of waste generated depends on the specificities of the consumer market, the different life cycle of products and the habits of the population in that member state.
the commission notes that the average annual amount of waste generated by the two companies is higher than the average annual amount of waste generated by the two companies.
the added value of this directive is its potential health and environmental benefits.
proper management of electronic waste could contribute to up to 50-75% recycling and 5% reuse.
producers will have to finance the treatment of waste, and consumers will have to dispose of e-waste legally at treatment centres.
− i believe that, at european level, manufacturers also have an important role to play in the recovery of waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee).
- i voted for this report because i believe that there is a need to make the management of electrical and electronic waste more efficient, given the poor balance to date and the fact that this waste is growing at an accelerated rate.
amending the current directive will improve collection rates, improve legislation on illegal exports and achieve a fairer distribution of responsibilities for the management of electrical and electronic waste.
in addition to the environmental benefits, this change will also have a positive socio-economic impact in terms of creating new jobs in the sector of collection, treatment and recycling of waste electrical and electronic equipment.
− waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) represents the fastest-growing waste stream in the eu and we therefore face a range of challenges: 9 million tonnes now, growing to 12.3 million by 2020. taking into account these quantities, there is a good business case for retrieving more weee: more revenue and jobs for the waste treatment sector; a contribution to the employment of the long-term unemployed and disadvantaged; recovered material has an estimated value of around eur 2 billion a year.
the recast was very urgently needed in order to tackle climate change, to avoid environmental damage through bad waste management and to keep hold of the valuable resources in electric and electronic equipment.
- i voted for this report because the progress made so far in waste management is minimal and therefore i ask the italian government to respect eu regulations and deadlines imposed by the commission.
the commission should closely monitor this and, if necessary, impose sanctions to ensure that the local authorities in campania comply with community provisions on waste management.
the structural funds, currently blocked by the commission, must be released as soon as a regional strategy in line with eu law and a credible waste management plan are presented.
as regards the location of new waste collection/disposal points, stricter controls are required to avoid the opening of sites located in protected areas, such as those built on the perimeter of vesuvius national park (terzigno deposit).
i stress the need to rebuild citizens' trust through dialogue with the local population, because so far public protests that have taken place at some waste sites have not been taken seriously by the italian authorities.
member states are also responsible for monitoring compliance with the levels set out in the framework of protection against radioactive contamination in this regulation, in particular by monitoring safety standards for both food and feed, but also by monitoring environmental parameters.
this is a new concrete measure of the package of government initiatives to stimulate the business environment.
the completion of the danube ten-t projects, the development of tourism, energy infrastructure, the prevention and management of natural disasters and the effects of climate change, as well as cultural and academic exchanges will bring prosperity to the region.
in view of the complex ecosystems and biodiversity of the danube region, it is important that, in accordance with the joint declaration on the development of inland navigation and environmental protection in the danube basin, there are integrated project teams and win-win solutions for both navigation improvement and environmental protection.
i would like to stress the very special economic interdependence of the danube countries, the importance of investment in information and communication technology, but also in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and their research departments, in order to ensure sustainable and efficient growth and to stimulate the growth of the green economy.
there is a broad consensus on the priorities of the strategy, namely mobility, the environment and thus environmental improvement and increased prosperity.
i think that we should have a real sustainable development here.
as a result, following the request of the european council in june 2009, the commission has developed the strategy for the danube region: i would like to congratulate the document on its focus on 11 key areas which will lead, if properly implemented, to sustainable development, job creation and security in the area.
last but not least, one factor that may play a major role in its success is energy.
fragmentation of energy markets leads to high costs and lack of real competition.
i therefore advocate diversifying supply through genuine interconnections and regional markets, which can ensure greater energy security.
the strategy will have to respond to the challenges facing the countries in the area: economic and social disparities between the different regions of the danube countries, the intensification of shipping traffic, climate change, cultural diversity, environmental problems and biodiversity.
firstly, we must work intensively on the development of hulls and the like, in order to reduce energy consumption and pollution of the river beds.
the danube has long been a natural border between states and regions, but also an untapped energy and transport opportunity.
the danube river basin is the backbone of a sustainable macro-regional construction.
the european strategy in this area targets european communities, regions and states, harmonising their needs for economic, social and cultural development while respecting the environmental norms of the danube's natural habitat.
the development of a regional energy market is another area of interest for the danube countries.
strategic interconnections between neighbouring states will have a positive impact on energy security and environmental protection, taking into account the sustainable energy potential of the danube macro-region.
the new rules should take into account the concerns of smes and european car manufacturers who are demanding that the phasing in of pollution limits start after 2015, as the vehicles to be sold in 2014 are already in the development and production stages.
we wanted to repeat this success with legislation for vans – not just for environmental reasons, but because greater fuel efficiency will ultimately bring costs down for many businesses.
we have a compromise text which, although not as ambitious as we would have liked, will lead to a significant reduction in co2 emissions from vans and contribute to the eu’s emission reduction ambitions for 2020 and beyond.
we have also taken into account the current economic situation and its effect on the companies concerned by this regulation, by providing for a derogation period of 4 years, renewable once.
the brutal attacks on russian journalists oleg kashin and anatoly adamchuk and environmental activist konstantin fetisov are among the latest reminders of the climate of insecurity and intimidation that journalists, activists and human rights defenders in russia face in their day-to-day work.
as long as the crimes remain unsolved, a climate of impunity will continue to prevail.
we pay tribute to all those who have lost their lives and to those who have fallen victim to aggression because of their professions or beliefs, as well as the courageous ones who cannot be deterred from their civil engagement in such a precarious environment.
we must encourage russia to seek a sustainable solution to this endemic problem in the region.
article 16 provides that no member state is prevented from imposing certain requirements in respect of a service activity where this is justified on grounds of public policy, public safety and public health or the protection of the environment.
i consider that, after the completion of transposition, it is essential to carry out a comprehensive assessment of the impact of the services directive on economic activity, the qualitative and quantitative level of employment, social protection, the achievement of environmental objectives and the quality of services provided to consumers.
− i believe that this draft regulation is based on the premise that reducing the fuel consumption of light commercial vehicles will reduce the overall level of co2 emissions in the transport sector, thus mitigating climate change and thus setting co2 emission limits for new light commercial vehicles in the european union.
− this proposal is a follow-up to the community strategy to reduce co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles (lcvs), as follows: – from 2020 a long-tem target of 147g co2/km for the average emissions of new lcvs registered in the union, subject to confirmation of its feasibility.
by 1 january 2013, after a complete review of them, a proposal will amend it, if appropriate; – the short-term target, fixed to 175g co2/km; a phasing-in period from 1 january 2014 onwards with full compliance of the new fleet from 2017;– specific emission target for alternative fuel vehicles will be incorporated, aimed at promoting further deployment of certain alternative-fuel vehicles in the union market; – for multi-stage vehicles, the specific emissions of co2 of completed vehicles will be allocated to the manufacturer of the base vehicle.
the super-credits to manufacturers producing lcvs with emissions of co2 of less than 50g co2/km will be limited with a threshold of 25 000 lcvs per manufacturer.
− i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation setting performance standards for new light commercial vehicles, as part of the european commission's integrated approach to reducing co2 emissions from light vehicles.
the regulation imposes penalties on manufacturers of light commercial vehicles for exceeding the average specific emissions set by this regulation.
i would point out that limiting emissions must not be approached only from the point of view of supply, for example how to upgrade light vehicles to be less polluting, but also from the point of view of demand.
− i believe that eu member states are responsible for monitoring compliance with the levels set out in the framework of protection against radioactive contamination in this regulation, in particular by monitoring safety standards for both food and feed, but also by monitoring environmental parameters.
the green paper outlines the key challenges facing the union in this area, and asked fourteen questions about how work at eu level could help the member states in ensuring that pensions are adequate, sustainable and safe, while fully respecting the principle of subsidiarity.
the green paper takes a holistic approach, because my fellow commissioners rehn and barnier and i are convinced that adequate, sustainable and safe pensions call for coordinated, joined-up policies spanning our three areas of responsibility.
in several places it highlights the links between adequacy, sustainability and safety.
i very much count on parliament’s support to bring about a real change to create both adequate and sustainable pensions for the future.
also, for public pension systems to be sustainable, we need to ensure that people have the chance to stay in the workforce until retirement age.
demography is not working in our favour, so the sustainability of the system is a serious problem, but public pension systems are not funded by governments, but by contributors, social partners, employees and employers, whatever their nature.
therefore, by adopting law no 263/2010, romania has introduced a series of major reforms that will ensure the sustainability of the public pension system in the medium and long term.
the millennium development goals to eradicate poverty by 2015 will not be achieved without substantial progress on energy access.
rural areas have a particular energy situation.
in these areas, not only the energy needed must be secured, but the process of producing it, which also ensures job creation and economic and social development.
on 11 february 2011, a world bank report showed that local renewable energy production at low production prices is more economically viable in the long term.
this can play an important role in increasing india's energy security, reducing energy imports and reducing the influence of oil price fluctuations.
i believe that the world bank should support projects to increase energy efficiency, local production of renewable energy, as well as large-scale electrification and interconnection projects between different countries.
a dynamic, competitive and effective european agricultural sector is needed in its contribution to stimulating sustainable, smart and inclusive growth.
reliable food production, sustainable management of natural resources, and the maintenance of territorial balance and diversity of rural areas are indispensable elements of an effective common agricultural policy and a productive agricultural sector.
one of the most important factors is the development of trans-european networks, not only in the field of transport but also in the energy sector, by allocating adequate financial resources to projects with added value for europe.
i appreciate that the lifelong learning system and the integration of young people into such a system is the basic coordinate for intelligent and sustainable growth, for ensuring a healthy life for future adults.
– the eu 2020 strategy should help europe recover from the crisis and come out stronger, through jobs and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth based on five eu headline targets as regards promoting employment.
transport, energy and communications are the backbone of the european economy.
− i voted in favour of this report because i believe that pension systems across the european union are already facing major sustainability problems, which risk becoming even more serious in the future, and therefore need to be reconsidered.
ensuring an adequate and sustainable pension for eu citizens now and in the future is a priority for the european union.
− the green paper 'towards adequate, sustainable and secure european pension systems' by ms ria oomen-ruijten makes an important contribution to the debate on the future of european pension systems.
− i welcome the progress made by croatia in meeting the criteria for the completion of accession negotiations, but the croatian government needs to improve the coordination of the central administrative institutions responsible for environmental management, in particular those in the field of spatial planning, waste management, water management and air quality, so that they can ensure the good conservation of a unique environment and a high level of biodiversity.
i believe that the economic development of the region could be accelerated through close cooperation between croatia and the other countries, within the framework of the strategy for the danube region, through various forms of cooperation in the field of transport, environment and economic development within the danube macro-region.
regarding the remarks made by mr jadot, the initial draft of the korean legislation would have forced eu car makers to reduce the co2 emissions of their cars twice as much as korean car makers.
this was mainly because the proposed emission cuts were not proportional, but highly progressive, depending on the level of emissions of the respective cars.
consequently, despite being responsible for only a small share of car sales in korea – 3% in 2009 – and therefore of total co2 car emissions in korea, eu car makers would have been asked to contribute disproportionately.
their average emissions reduction between 2009 and 2015 would have been 23%, compared with just 10% for their korean counterparts, which account for 95% of total car sales in korea.
this agreement is also ambitious and innovative, the first of a new generation of bilateral free trade agreements which includes both a chapter on sustainable development and labour standards and a monitoring mechanism in which civil society will be involved.
given that hungary and romania were appointed on 3 february as coordinators of the priority action on environmental protection in the danube region, namely restoring and maintaining water quality, i would like to ask you when these coordinators will start implementing this priority action, because this way we will be able to ensure the quality of drinking water.
it is now essential to make a timely decision allowing the eib to pursue its external work until 2013, while at the same time enhancing the mandate to ensure that eib investments outside the eu are increasingly aligned with eu policy objectives, in particular in the areas of climate change and development.
those points relate to, firstly, the restriction from eligibility under the climate change mandate of countries deemed by the council not to have committed to meeting appropriate climate-change-related targets.
− the guarantee to the european investment bank under this report aims to develop social and economic structures and mitigate climate change in third countries, while promoting democracy, the rule of law and human rights.
in this context, the eib should consider boosting certain projects of strategic importance to the european union, such as the nabucco gas pipeline and other major road, maritime and energy infrastructure projects.
finally, i would like to stress the need for the bank to monitor the projects financed, both during their implementation and at their completion, to verify compliance with social and environmental criteria.
i agree that we need an ambitious social agenda, including the fight against poverty and social exclusion, but in order to create sustainable jobs, we must first have a competitive economy, and that is precisely the role of cohesion policy.
the activation of the eur 2 billion mandate for climate finance represents a potential important support for eastern partnership countries such as the republic of moldova.
the union's energy independence will be guaranteed by the completion of the nabucco project.
all these countries are encouraged to cooperate in areas such as water transport, social protection and development, sustainable economic development, transport and energy infrastructure, environmental protection, tourism, culture and education.
the danube is no longer blue, like in the strauss waltz, and the projects for environmental protection are estimated at 9 billion euros.
all investments in the danube basin must be smart systems, based on the latest scientific and technological developments and in which environmental protection is included from the design phase of the systems (green knowledge intelligent systems).
these investments mean creating new opportunities for sustainable economic growth and improving the quality of life, thereby developing the natural/environmental heritage and promoting eu environmental policy (e.g.
creating a system for managing and controlling environmental factors, addressing negative environmental impacts in the event of natural disasters, protecting biodiversity, preserving and extending forested areas, parks and green spaces in urban areas).
a heavy supply chain with too many intermediaries, natural disasters caused by climate change, low incomes from agriculture or volatility in the agricultural market are just some of the reasons why the price of agricultural products has risen unjustifiably at european level.
therefore, joint research and training capacities in the field of sustainable agricultural methods and new technologies should be developed at community level in order to mitigate the collapse of agricultural systems and temporarily prevent this crisis.
as regards carbon taxation, i agree that the current taxation model does not fully embrace the polluter-pays principle.
i welcome the ep´s support for strengthening the emissions trading system, as well as for a comprehensive revision of the energy taxation directive (etd) to make co2 emission and energy content the basic criteria for the taxation of energy products.
a proposal for revision of the etd is planned for spring 2011. i hear also your concerns as regards the potential risk of carbon leakage.
the commission favours transitional free allocation of allowances and access to international credits for companies under the emissions trading system.
we are nevertheless continuing to monitor the current and future risk of carbon leakage.
and i am convinced that a solution similar to free allocation under the emissions trading system can be included in the etd revision.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
− achieving european objectives on sustainable development, energy security and climate change requires a substantial financial commitment, particularly in terms of innovation and research, as well as new ways to complement existing funding.
the commission should therefore examine the feasibility of introducing a carbon tax, similar to vat, to be applied to every product on the internal market.
the efficiency of the use of structural funds and european investment bank funds, as well as the coordination between union, national and other forms of support that can act as a lever to stimulate investment in energy efficiency, needs to be improved.
appropriate investment in energy supply and energy efficiency leads to reduced dependence on market fluctuations and positive consequences for the union economy.
public procurement represents 17% of the eu's gdp and is an important market, particularly in areas such as health, transport and energy.
member states should substantially improve their use of existing structural funds for research and innovation, transport and energy efficiency projects, by supporting citizens to acquire the necessary skills, improving the performance of national systems and implementing smart specialisation strategies and transnational projects.
i also draw attention to the under-exploited potential of innovative revolving financial instruments aimed at increasing the energy efficiency of buildings.
member states should also initiate the preparation of post-2013 structural funds programmes with a particular focus on innovation, transport, energy efficiency and smart specialisation.
i also congratulate our colleague on the report and i would like to thank her for accepting our amendments, which were tabled in the committee on industry, research and energy.
i called on the commission and all stakeholders to ensure the financial sustainability of the european standardisation system, including through public-private partnerships and multiannual financial planning, which is essential to ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of the system.
first and foremost, we call on the member states to take into account the gender dimension in their plans for recovery from the recession by promoting and boosting the employment of women, and adopting specific measures as well as adjusting budgets to ensure equality of access to public sector expenditure, with a view to both enhancing productive capacity and meeting women’s social and environmental needs.
the h1n1 case demonstrated poor risk management globally, mainly due to an inadequate correlation between alert levels and actual dangers, leading, among other things, to a large waste of funds.
short-term speculative transactions were at the heart of that crisis and underlined the clear link between inefficient financial regulation and supervision and the sustainability of public finances.
given that the european union is the world's largest importer of agricultural goods, the production methods for exports to the union from third countries should offer european consumers the same guarantees in terms of health, food safety, sustainable development and minimum social standards as those imposed on european producers.
as regards articles 53 and 54, i would remind you that european farmers are obliged to respect the highest standards of quality, food safety, the environment and animal welfare and i believe that we should have the same requirements from all our trading partners, in the interests of european farmers but also in the interests of consumers, who must be protected.
internal eu pressures towards market orientation of the cap and a greater focus on other european policies are equally reflected in the eu's external trade policy, with a view to ensuring the opening of the agricultural market in exchange for improved access for european services and industrial products to third country markets, and maintaining the european agricultural model and a fair competitive environment for european producers on the world market.
globally, demand for food is increasing, driven by rising production costs, increased volatility in agricultural markets, decreasing land and water cover, and reduced energy inputs.
a strong common agricultural policy is fundamental to the maintenance, environmental sustainability and economic development of rural areas in the eu in the face of the threat of land abandonment and rural depopulation.
i also want to draw attention to the fact that if our farmers are required to meet very high standards of quality, environment and animal welfare, we should also require third country producers exporting to the eu to meet the same standards in order to ensure fair competition.
globally, demand for food has increased due to the effects of climate change, rising production costs, reduced agricultural land and reduced drinking water resources.
we demand that agricultural imports into the eu offer european consumers the same guarantees in terms of consumer protection, quality of animal life, environmental protection and minimum social standards as those offered by european production methods.
more than 10% of the eu's arable land, and these crops are not subject to the same health and environmental requirements as european ones.
in addition, in the context of climate change, protein crops can contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by absorbing and storing nitrogen in the soil and therefore have the effect of reducing the use of synthetic nitrogen fertilisers.
these crops also contribute to reducing soil acidification, improving soil structure, reducing the use of herbicides and increasing biodiversity favourable to pollination.
i support the rapporteur's view that this must be changed, as this will benefit human health, the environment and biodiversity.
as regards the eu's commitments to actively contribute to global food security and to actively combat climate change, future agricultural and rural development policy must promote a better balance between plant and animal protein production, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and nutrient leakage to groundwater, to motivate consumers, procurement authorities and catering services to opt for a more balanced, greener and more varied food range in the food supply.
the commission should present legislative initiatives to reduce food waste in the food chain, including slaughter and larder waste, an area that is not sufficiently regulated.
there are gm soy substitutes that could help provide the protein needed, such as field peas, broad beans and field beans, lupine, lentils, hazelnuts, but also alfalfa and clover, which can also substantially reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of women's rights day and the vote on this report on equality between women and men, i wonder which society could deprive itself of 50% of its intelligence, 50% of its energy?
turkey's importance to the european union is also worth mentioning, as it is a key player in the energy sector.
i appreciate the promotion of montenegro as a state promoter of the environmental movement.
one of the eu's key objectives is to protect the environment.
the implementation of the future strategy must be based on structured dialogue and collaboration between roma communities, local authorities and the non-governmental environment.
energy consumption is an indicator of industrial production.
we need an eco-efficient industrial policy that ensures both the production capacity of the eu in a sustainable way and the reduction of the union's energy dependence.
they are therefore also essential for new clean energy sources.
mining, refining and recycling of rare earth elements have serious environmental consequences if not managed properly.
gas from alternative sources would play an important role in the european energy market.
by using it, europe could diversify its energy sources, thus reducing its dependence on third countries.
however, the exploitation of unconventional gas sources poses significant environmental and social risks.
no exploitation of shale gas shall take place without an impact study presenting the associated risks and the measures necessary to protect the resident population and owners, taking into account the environmental risks.
commissioner, the european union's energy security policy is based on diversifying sources and supply routes.
reducing dependence on russian gas can also be achieved by implementing projects such as nabucco, a key priority for the european union, alongside other smaller projects such as the trans adriatic pipeline, the turkey-greece-italy interconnection or the azerbaijan-georgia-romania interconnection, which highlight the particular importance of the black sea for the union's energy security.
we have today presented our communication on the energy efficiency plan, which means that saving energy, using energy more efficiently, using it, not wasting it, is certainly a priority.
secondly, we have an increasing demand for energy in the european union.
it is a fossil resource, but it is far more environmentally friendly than coal or oil in terms of co2 emissions, and far more flexible than nuclear power and coal.
gas is therefore essential to ensure that electricity can be produced increasingly from renewable sources.
if we take the subject of base load, we have here about 8 000 hours a year, whereas wind power has between 2 000 and 5 000 hours depending on the location and solar energy only between 600 and 2 000 hours.
if you want renewable energy, you have to look at gas as the logical partner.
whether environmental law, soil protection law, groundwater protection, occupational safety for the workers and trainees concerned and property rights are respected.
we will commission an expert opinion to examine, on the basis of typical applications for trial drilling within the eu, what risks exist and whether the european union legal framework is sustainable, the member states' legislation is sufficient and whether and where we need to make improvements at eu level.
there are various european sources of funding that can support member states in making the necessary investments in infrastructure, production and energy efficiency measures at regional and local level, in particular through loans and guarantees from the european investment bank or financing through regional, structural or cohesion funds.
on the basis of these financing instruments and within the 2014-2020 budgetary perspective, the commission should identify a financing solution for the exploitation of gas from alternative sources, which could have a radical impact on the european gas and energy market.
this policy gave europe the benefits of stability and safe access to energy.
the negotiations with turkey should be stimulated and i believe that, for example, the opening of negotiating chapter 15, which concerns the energy sector, is important also for the eu member states.
the strategic relevance of turkey to the union's energy security should not be overlooked as we seek to diversify sources of supply, the nabucco pipeline project being a significant example.
i therefore believe that turkey must be substantially involved, even before accession, in european projects on energy or regional cooperation in the black sea and the mediterranean.
in this regard, i believe that a structured dialogue between roma communities, the non-governmental environment and local authorities must be the basis for the implementation of the future strategy.
to meet these challenges, i believe that an industrial policy approach is needed that combines competitiveness, sustainability and decent work and can lead to economic and employment boost, reduction of environmental degradation and improvement of the quality of life in the european union.
this report supports industrial progress through smart and forward-looking regulation and market stimulation, based on coherent insights into market developments and supporting global trends towards green, sustainable and innovative forms of production, distribution and consumption.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the success of the industrial policy of the european union depends on its being firmly anchored in a new architecture of the financial sector, which promotes investment and prevents speculation, and in a macroeconomic policy in which the fiscal, economic and budgetary policy of the union is geared towards sustainable growth and job creation.
it is also imperative to introduce innovative incentive mechanisms based on the achievement of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth objectives and to promote closer cooperation with financial institutions.
there are 15 key elements: building an innovation chain, using resources more efficiently, clear targets for sustainable products, public procurement, improving clean energy production, a raw materials strategy, reorganising trade for fair coexistence and sustainable production, shaping a binding sectoral industrial policy, involving smes, regional areas of action, ensuring anticipation of industrial transformation, restructuring, upskilling, worker participation in decision-making, long-term policies.
the eu's industrial policy must be geared both to a sustainable, environmentally efficient and globally competitive renewal of the industrial base and to a sustainable transition from a predominantly manufacturing-based industry to a knowledge-based industry, clearly committed to investing in the eu and to strategic partnerships between firms in the union.
i devote more energy to this probably than to anything else that we do.
after the ecological disaster in hungary last october, i raised the issue of disaster prevention in the extractive industry with the european commission on several occasions.
in response to my questions, i received confirmation from the commission that the waste dumped into the environment, including the danube, in the case of the accident in hungary, was in fact toxic, although this fact had initially been denied by the authorities.
i would like to draw attention to the importance of effectively managing these challenges, especially in the context of a future common agricultural policy which proposes agriculture as both a food and a significant environmental protection role.
to counteract the effects of these phenomena, a risk map and a coherent environmental management plan are needed.
the energy mix remains the responsibility of the member states, but nuclear safety is defined by european legislation, which needs to be revised in the light of the safety tests for nuclear power plants recently proposed by the commission.
we must not forget that the eu's dependence on energy imports is enormous and that member states must find solutions to provide their own energy sources.
the eu needs a common energy policy which must be based on an optimal balance between renewable energy, new technologies for conventional energy resources and the need to ensure the safe production of nuclear energy.
i have followed the debate closely and i must say, however, that i cannot accept turning such a drama into a crusade against nuclear energy.
this energy is cheap, green, and the advances in technology will make it increasingly safe.
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020, significant results can be achieved by investing in energy efficiency measures in the buildings and transport sectors.
the final text of the directive, however, obliges both car manufacturers and fuel producers to invest in reducing emissions and improving fuel quality.
i believe that in order to reduce the polluting emissions generated by the transport sector, the european union should invest as a priority in the development of a pan-european smart electricity grid, capable of taking over locally and regionally produced energy from renewable energy sources and being integrated into the infrastructure necessary for the use of electric vehicles.
before i went to canada, friends of the earth europe, wwf and transport and environment gave me questions to ask the albertan government regarding the oil sands.
it was conveyed to me that canada is fully committed to reducing global ghg emissions and de-carbonising fossil fuels, and has pointed out that studies show that the ghg intensity of oil from tar sands can be equal to or less than some other fuels.
on the other hand there are remaining concerns about public health, biodiversity and local wildlife.
i would encourage the commission to send an expert group to visit the oil sands in canada to conduct an independent analysis of the oil sands, as it will be proposing amendments to the fuel quality directive before december 2012, with a possibility of introducing additional measures for suppliers to reduce by 2% the lifecycle ghg per unit of energy.
more and more areas of the world are being affected by climate change and natural disasters.
in this situation, cooperation between the union and the council is essential to meet energy needs and avoid price increases on the world market.
the eu-canada air transport agreement was initialled on 30 november 2008, received support at the eu-canada summit on 6 may 2009 and was signed on 17-18 december 2009. what the agreement contains: the agreement includes a gradual phasing-out of traffic rights, investment opportunities and large-scale cooperation on a range of issues including safety, security, social issues, consumer interests, the environment, air traffic management, state aid and competition.
given the important role played by the joint committee, including on politically sensitive issues as well as on environmental and labour standards, it is important that the commission ensures that parliament is fully informed and consulted on the work of the committee and also on future treaty amendments.
the implementation of this agreement will lead to more services operated by one airline and new possibilities for the transport of goods, but this must also lead to greater concern with respect to the impact on climate change.
− the european union and canada have agreed to cooperate in the field of air transport with the aim of mitigating the impact of aviation on climate change.
a strengthening of relations would be beneficial to both sides, especially as there are many possibilities for cooperation in the fields of education, scientific research, renewable energy.
the geopolitical climate in the gulf is different now, with global and regional implications.
i believe that the 2012 budget must contribute to the implementation of the five objectives of the eu 2020 strategy: employment, innovation, research and development, climate change and energy, education and social inclusion.
− according to the eu 2020 strategy, high-quality and environmentally sustainable production is one of the eu's competitive advantages.
− mr president, every day, european businesses have to compete in an ever-changing and more competitive environment.
the updating and optimisation of the legal framework for european statistics in this field is a pressing need for the development of sustainable, responsible and quality tourism.
we need to set up a more structured, sustainable plan able to cover the various dimensions of this phenomenon, based on solidarity between member states and in full respect of the european union’s international obligations.
however, we also need implement long-term, sustainable programmes.
we share the view that it is crucial to put in place more long-term, sustainable cooperation programmes to address migration, mobility and security, in combination with the promotion of democracy, the rule of law and good governance with third countries.
it will propose priorities, principles and concrete measures but will also look more closely at the link between migration and development and between migration and climate change, for instance.
we also need to consider the promotion of democracy and human rights, as well as, of course, the sustainable improvement of the economic situation.
i am referring to the precarious economic situation and the unstable political climate in the countries of origin.
rural tourism based on family tourism units creates jobs, allows the combination of family obligations with work and encourages the rural population to remain in the rural environment.
assistance was intended for measures for decommissioning, maintenance and after-shutdown supervision, waste treatment, storage and decontamination of waste and spent fuel and dismantling works, in the energy field (for replacing the production capacity of closed units, increasing the security of energy supply and energy efficiency and other measures contributing to the necessary restructuring and modernisation of the energy infrastructure) and in terms of social consequences (for supporting the staff of the plant in maintaining a high level of safety after shutdown and retraining staff for tasks in the decommissioning process).
the european union has funded this activity with large sums of money, some €2.8 billion since 1999. the report calls for the following to be clarified in future evaluations by the european commission and the european court of auditors: whether the funds allocated by the european union have been used to ensure the security of the decommissioning activity; whether the decommissioning ensures the safe storage of nuclear waste; whether there has been adequate coordination between the three existing programmes, thus making effective use of the experience gained and following the pattern of previously prepared and financed projects to generate cost savings; whether current plans and strategies are complete or whether there is still scope to add new activities and subsequently additional funds; whether additional amounts still need to be allocated to energy projects or whether it is necessary to focus more on decommissioning projects and whether the financing of these activities from community funds is necessary.
there are 143 nuclear power plants in the european union and, according to data published by the energy dg in march 2010, nuclear energy accounts for approximately 28% of the eu's energy mix.
the lack of funding for decommissioning measures will delay this process, which would pose a threat to the environment and human health.
we call on the commission, parliament and the member states to develop a coherent and integrated investment policy that promotes high-quality investment and makes a positive contribution to economic progress and sustainable development worldwide.
we call for the future policy of the european union to promote sustainable investment, which respects the environment and encourages good working conditions in the enterprises targeted by the investment.
the situation is worrying, as these countries are the most vulnerable to shocks such as financial and food crises, climate change, and also face extreme poverty, lack of infrastructure and rising unemployment.
this would pose a threat to the environment and to human health.
future evaluations by the european commission and the european court of auditors should clarify issues such as: the allocation and use of funds by the eu to ensure the safety of decommissioning, the provision of safe nuclear waste storage and the existence of coordination between the three existing programmes.
it is clear that if we do not allocate the right resources, we can face extremely serious consequences for the environment and human health.
− the european union is concerned about the possible safety consequences of decommissioning old nuclear power plants in the new member states and the possible poor management of the radioactive waste they generate.
operations are usually very expensive; the correct and as transparent as possible management of the eu's financial resources and adequate external oversight are therefore essential to ensure fair competition in the energy market.
in parallel, the union should continuously promote the development of alternative energy resources with low emissions and competitiveness in order to remedy the negative economic and social consequences of the decommissioning of old nuclear power plants.
violence against women has a negative impact on both the victims and the children who grow up in such an environment unsuitable for their human development.
we are making it clear that all the efforts of fiscal consolidation, all the efforts of structural reform, are in fact for growth – for sustainable growth, for inclusive growth – which is the goal of the european union.
the first priority refers to the means to support innovation and creativity in the single market, which is essential if we want stronger and more sustainable growth.
eu project bonds can also be a great opportunity for infrastructure investments in the field of energy or telecommunications.
the fourth priority aims to make the single market a better environment for smes, given their importance for economic growth and their job creation potential.
they need simplification to allow smes to take part in procedures, and they should be better used in order to support smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
it seems obvious to me in the energy sector, and even more in terms of scarcity of resources and international tensions.
i strongly believe that europe has to throw its weight to push member states to interconnect and invest in their infrastructure as a precondition for a common energy market and security of supply.
this solidarity will be all the more necessary as climate change continues to cause disasters across europe.
in this context, strategies should be developed that also contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
− i supported this report because it represents a commitment to promote responsible and sustainable fishing practices in all areas where eu vessels might operate, based on a careful analysis of available resources and after it has been established with certainty that the fishing opportunities applied have been guaranteed by credible scientific advice and that there is no risk of depleting local fisheries resources.
the main objective of the new protocol is to define the fishing opportunities offered to eu vessels in terms of access rights and sectoral support and to continue the cooperation between the eu and the cu with a view to extending the partnership framework, developing a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the union of the comoros's fishing zone, in the interests of both parties.
however, these statistics are not only used to monitor tourism-specific policies, but at the same time play a key role in the context of regional policy and sustainable development.
i welcome the updating and optimisation of the legal framework for european tourism statistics to better respond to the challenges facing the sector, such as climate change, environmental constraints, global competition, demographic trends and the seasonal distribution of tourist trips.
the development of sustainable, responsible and quality tourism requires updating and optimising the legal framework for european statistics in this field.
this is an indispensable condition for the sustainable development of the fisheries sector.
as regards control, its importance for the future and sustainability of the fisheries sector and as a means of promoting a culture of compliance is certainly more widely recognised today.
− i believe that the aquaculture sector is growing in importance, as this report shows, which highlights 'a new impetus for the sustainable development strategy for european aquaculture' and offers real opportunities for the development of this sector.
properly conducted environmental and health monitoring and surveillance thus contributes to the sustainability of this important sector.
− future european policy must promote sustainable, environmentally friendly investment, especially in the extractive industries, and encourage good working conditions in the enterprises targeted by international investment.
i believe that any investment agreement should be accompanied by a set of social and environmental rules, both in the case of negotiating a chapter in a free trade agreement and in the case of an autonomous investment agreement.
european policy must protect biodiversity and promote technology transfer and infrastructure improvements.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european union needs a coherent investment policy that makes a positive contribution to economic growth and sustainable development and to employment.
creating a secure and transparent environment for their operation and funding is a first step.
and i think that using regulations instead of directives would create a clearer regulatory environment and reduce the costs of implementation.
the grech report, adopted by parliament in may 2010, recommended a comprehensive approach to relaunching and strengthening the internal market, including sectors such as industry, energy and infrastructure.
− the single market for europeans is primarily about jobs and job creation, which helps to create an environment in which businesses and citizens can fully exercise their rights.
− to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, the single market must provide the conditions for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
this report will in reality seek to strengthen industrial competitiveness, sustainable development and job creation.
call for a more sme-friendly regulatory environment by carefully assessing the impact of all new legislative or regulatory measures on smes in order to reduce red tape, increase competitiveness and promote quality jobs.
on the other hand, we must not fall into the trap of making emotional and unfounded decisions about whether to keep nuclear energy or to give it up.
the decision on the composition of the energy mix must remain the responsibility of the member states, while the european union must play its part in ensuring that safety standards are of the highest standard.
however, any action taken at european or national level on the energy mix and nuclear regulation must be based on a high degree of scientific objectivity.
i think we need to have a balanced approach, which takes into account all the aspects: the demands of the economy, the security of citizens, climate change.
i believe that the future energy policy must be based on a balance between renewable energy, new technologies for conventional resources and nuclear energy, under safe conditions.
we need to invest in research for efficient renewable energy production.
at the same time, research and innovation is needed for new technologies that eliminate the polluting effect of conventional energy production on the environment.
i would draw attention to the need for a european policy for the treatment and storage of nuclear waste and for decommissioning power stations.
last but not least, the public must maintain its confidence in atomic energy and must be properly informed.
today, there are 143 nuclear reactors in the union, with nuclear energy accounting for 30% of the european energy mix.
member states are responsible for their own energy mix, but nuclear safety is our responsibility, everyone's.
the union therefore needs to invest substantially in energy efficiency measures and in the production and use of energy from renewable sources, in particular for the buildings and transport sectors.
they produce about 20% of the country's energy consumption.
in romania, the nuclear power plant at cernavodă has been assessed by various bodies, including the european commission and the international atomic energy association.
regardless of what we decide about the future energy mix and how we meet our low-carbon objectives, the safety of nuclear facilities, including long-term depositories, will continue to be of the upmost importance for both current and future generations.
nuclear energy is a resource that the global economy cannot do without in the long term.
the fact that dangerous accidents occur in the operation of nuclear power stations should not lead us to the conclusion that nuclear energy is rejected.
since november 2010, 24 chapters have been discussed and 23 bilateral screening meetings have been completed, covering fisheries, agriculture, environment, regional policy and financial services.
screening is an important technical process and the meetings have already identified sensitive issues and challenges in key chapters, such as agriculture, environment and fisheries.
this will contribute to an improved business climate.
i believe that joining the european union will bring benefits to all parties involved, namely that iceland will gain economic and monetary stability, and that the european union will become stronger in the arctic region and in areas such as renewable energy and climate change.
i would like to stress its importance both for the implementation of the european union strategy for the danube region and for the energy security of the european union.
welcomes the accession of ukraine and the republic of moldova to the energy community treaty, which will play an important role in achieving the union's energy security objectives and contribute to the security of these countries.
as regards the union's priority energy projects, i stress the importance of the southern gas corridor and consider that the nabucco pipeline, together with the trans adriatic pipeline, the pan-european oil pipeline, the turkey-greece-italy interconnection or the interconnection... (speaker was interrupted)
in writing.
we are all looking for a way to reconcile the growing debts and deficits of member states with growth targets illustrated, for example, in the eu 2020 strategy, targets that require major investments in education, health, technology, sustainable energy and infrastructure.
this multiplier effect will give companies more money to spend on infrastructure projects in the fields of transport, energy, information technology and sustainable development.
it is important to focus on certain key projects, such as sustainable development, road and rail infrastructure, connecting ports to european markets and those that will enable energy independence, such as the nabucco gas pipeline or the itgi project.
i welcome the bank's focus on the areas most affected by the crisis, smes, convergence regions and climate action.
the focus of eib investment on convergence regions, smes and climate action is responding to the effects of the crisis in the most affected areas.
joint eib and commission initiatives in support of convergence have aimed to promote access to finance for smes, the development of microcredit for growth and job creation and support for sustainable investment in urban areas.
and the european commission gives this opinion after an examination by all the departments, by all the directorates-general, of competition and the environment.
in some areas, such as urban transport, energy efficiency, the water cycle, sme support, it is clear that the eib has developed a level of expertise that is quite unique.
it is clear that we need investment, we need sustainable development projects in the european union and that is why i believe that we must implement and consider ambitious ideas and we must not be afraid to come forward and propose such ideas.
− i believe that we must avoid making radical and immediate political decisions on the role of nuclear energy in the medium to long-term energy mix.
we must not lose sight of the advantages of nuclear energy, which generates low carbon dioxide emissions, has relatively low costs and ensures energy independence.
to date, nuclear energy has been statistically the safest with the lowest casualty rate in accidents compared to other energy sources (e.g.
it is also essential to respect member states' decisions to determine the composition of their energy mix.
the role of nuclear energy is important for the achievement of the union's objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy and the energy strategy for the current decade.
i believe that the production of nuclear energy under safe conditions is extremely important.
the structure of the energy mix is the responsibility of the member states and therefore i do not think that such a decision can be imposed at community level.
- i voted against the joint motion for a resolution on the conclusions on nuclear safety in europe following the nuclear accident in japan for the following reasons: at least seven of the amendments tabled are scientifically unrealistic; many parts of the text are mere slogans without any real basis, and those who are against nuclear energy do not even offer alternative solutions to its use.
− i voted for the european parliament resolution on the lessons to be learned on nuclear safety in europe following the nuclear accident in japan, because its objective is to increase nuclear safety in the eu, and not to ban the production and use of nuclear energy.
that is why i voted against all the amendments which aimed to remove nuclear energy from the european energy mix.
today, nuclear energy accounts for 30% of the european energy mix.
the achievement of the european union's 20-20-20 target depends to a large extent on the energy mix of the member states.
we cannot decide to phase out nuclear power without establishing sustainable sources of energy that can meet the eu's energy demand in the coming years at prices that are affordable to citizens.
the eu needs to invest in energy efficiency measures, particularly in the buildings and transport sectors, and in the use of renewable energy.
nuclear energy is now demonised and there is growing pressure demanding a complete switch from nuclear to so-called alternative sources of energy.
this proves that nature is unpredictable and that tsunamis cannot be banned, but it does not prove that nuclear energy is at fault.
nuclear energy has a much safer record than any other source of energy.
while oil arguably generates exploitation, dependence, wars and dictatorships, nuclear energy is historically much safer.
our main concern with nuclear energy should indeed be risk assessment and unitary safety procedures at a european level.
with these criteria fulfilled and observed, nuclear energy could put an end or severely limit the politics of energy dependence.
and while natural disasters cannot be prevented, nuclear energy is not a serious risk per se.
the situation is worrying, as these countries are the most vulnerable to shocks such as financial and food crises, climate change, and also face extreme poverty, lack of infrastructure and rising unemployment.
in addition to demographic challenges, climate change, economic competitiveness and quality of life, regions bordering non-member states face a number of consequences of poorly managed problems.
our human rights dialogue, in the context of our partnership and cooperation agreement with pakistan, is the appropriate forum to address such issues with pakistan and reach sustainable solutions.
for my part, i think it is important in this context to send a clear message to the other trading partners of the union: the union must remain committed to complementing the generous emergency humanitarian aid it has initially provided to pakistan with trade measures aimed at a sustainable economic recovery.
india's efforts to build a strong economy must be matched by the political will to improve the human rights, social and environmental situation.
last but not least, i would like to know whether this agreement will ensure a convergence of the positions of the european union and india on the fight against climate change and the reduction of polluting emissions.
i would remind you that the implementation of sustainable forest management is essential for the conservation of biodiversity in europe.
research on climate change needs to be encouraged, especially in the context of multinational projects.
the role of forests in the eu's energy strategy is another important point, because their potential as renewable energy sources is currently under-exploited.
– european forests are major contributors to climate change mitigation and the adaptation of european societies through the continuation of their economic, social and environmental functions.
therefore eu forest-related instruments need to be updated to address new threats to their sustainable management and conservation.
it’s underlined the central role of sustainable forest management (sfm) and the importance of forests for competitiveness and employment, in order to achieve eu’s climate targets and deliver necessary ecosystem services such as biodiversity conservation, protection against natural disasters and co2 capturing.
2.the immediate adoption of legislation on forest fire prevention as well as on forest information taking into account climate threats and the need for collection and dissemination of comparable data.
3.there is recognition of the importance of forests for rural development and the need to remove obstacles to funding for forestry and biodiversity.
− last year the commission and the other eu institutions reflected on the fact that we have not met our biodiversity targets.
this is a deeply regrettable situation which must be changed, quickly and effectively, in order to protect biodiversity and the invaluable eco-services it provides us with.
the development of a common european fisheries policy to protect the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources is therefore a natural concern.
− i voted in favour of this report as i believe that some measures are needed to make the work of members more efficient and to improve the performance of the institution's officials and infrastructure in terms of safety, information technology, visitor access and reducing the carbon footprint.
achieving the 30% carbon reduction target by 2020 is a priority.
− earlier this year i made some enquiries to the european commission in response to press reports about shipments of toxic waste from italy to romania.
although no evidence was found for the shipments, what was clear from the outcome of my enquiries was that we could benefit from more regular inspections of cargo, as this would act as a deterrent to those involved in the illegal shipment of waste.
i come from romania, a country that produces nuclear energy and where the population still has unanswered questions and fears about the long-term impact of the chernobyl accident.
in reality, however, there is a conflict between the world health organization and the international atomic energy agency, and the interests of the nuclear industry seem to take precedence over human health.
i do not doubt the commissioner's best intentions with the budget, but how far will the future budget be able to meet both food needs and new environmental ambitions?
– earlier this year i made some enquiries to the european commission in response to press reports about shipments of toxic waste from italy to romania.
although no evidence was found for the shipments, what was clear from the outcome of my enquiries was that we could benefit from more regular inspections of cargo, as this would act as a deterrent to those involved in the illegal shipment of waste.
these two initiatives play a crucial role both in strengthening relations with the states in the immediate neighbourhood and from the point of view of energy security.
the area of corporate governance is constantly evolving and the financial sector has a particular responsibility for sustainable and sound strategies in the economic environment.
this could undermine national policy initiatives on environmental, social or fiscal legislation.
the resolution of the european socialists and democrats underlined the importance of a free trade agreement with india, while recalling the persistence of social inequalities in that country and the need to include clauses on human rights, social and environmental rights in the agreement.
− forests are the main carbon store and play a key role in combating climate change.
forests form carbon-storing biospheres and are particularly important for environmental conservation and protection against natural disasters.
i would like to stress that sustainable forest management is a key component in achieving the european union's climate objectives and in capturing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential that the european union reinforces its strategy to improve the sustainable management and conservation of the forestry sector.
the main shortcomings are in enhancing protection and conservation of biodiversity and show that 66% of forest habitats are in a poor state.
in practice, the findings show that while attention has been paid to improving long-term competitiveness, the objectives of improving the environment, contributing to improving the quality of life and promoting coordination and communication have been rather poorly implemented.
this, combined with climate change, is reason enough to mobilise all eu member states and make equal and united efforts to manage the union's forests.
this must be coupled with the adaptation of energy, industry, trade, research and cohesion policies, including regional policy and the solidarity fund.
− the economic, social and environmental importance of forests in the international, european, regional and national context is generally well known and is partly legitimised in relevant international agreements and cooperation and funding programmes.
climate change is having a very big impact on forests in all regions of europe, but with different intensities.
a reform of the eu's approach to forest policies must not be limited to the challenges of climate change, but must take into account all aspects of the contribution of forests to sustainable development at regional, european and international level.
another aspect is the support instruments and schemes for the forestry sector at union level, and these are far below those applicable to other sectors of activity and the current and prospective contribution of forests to the achievement of the sustainable development goals.
however, a reform of the eu's approach to forest policies must not be limited to the challenges of climate change, but must take into account all aspects of the contribution of forests to sustainable development (environment, rural economies, etc.)
− due to the important contribution of forests to solving the climate crisis, sustainable forest management is of major importance for the eu to achieve its climate goals.
the eu needs to strengthen its strategy to tackle the factors that cause forest degradation, such as uncontrolled deforestation, fires and air pollution.
at the same time, ensuring biodiversity, protection against natural disasters and capture of co2 from the atmosphere are vital to improving the quality of life of our citizens and preserving the environment.
i therefore believe that the protection of forests in the eu must aim at providing a guarantee that forests will continue to fulfil all their productive, socio-economic and ecological functions in the future.
− forests provide us with many essential eco-services, ranging from regulating the water cycle to preventing soil erosion and sequestering carbon.
the environmental and economic benefits of forests require that they be afforded urgent, continuing and long-term protection, and this is especially important in the context of climate change, in terms of both mitigation and adaptation.
the eu must therefore cooperate with the major regional powers and actively participate in building and improving an international environment that allows it to promote its values and interests.
on the other hand, globalisation processes also present a wide range of opportunities, challenges and threats to global governance, revealing social gaps and failures, including in the areas of financial markets, energy security, poverty reduction, climate change policy and human rights violations.
improving the business environment and access to finance, as well as facilitating smes' access to structural funds, will encourage the development of entrepreneurship.
to improve the regulatory environment that is favourable to the needs of smes, the small business act needs to be aligned with the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy.
since 2008, the economic environment has changed dramatically and therefore there is indeed a need for a review.
a set of measures is also needed to support smes in implementing the new energy efficiency plan.
we need to find the energy together to beat this fatigue.
i am convinced that while it is a major effort for individual member states to implement the economic policy programmes linked to the credit agreements, it is also an opportunity to confront long-standing structural problems and to provide solutions and responses in the short term, which can ultimately lead to more sustainable and higher growth in these countries in the medium term.
the contribution of the 'innovation union' to sustainable development requires the modernisation of the education system, the simplification and convergence of rules on access to existing funds, the forecasting of skills needs and the promotion of partnerships between universities and enterprises, the promotion of standardisation and the protection of intellectual property.
only then will we be able to achieve sustainable growth in europe and withstand the increasing pressure of globalisation.
the commission should focus on technologies that underpin smarter and more sustainable systems.
all strategies related to the eu's post-crisis adjustment must aim at sustainable job creation.
i would like to underline the importance of public procurement contracts in promoting environmental standards in buildings and transport, and the potential that this has to improve energy efficiency and therefore reduce carbon emissions, operating costs and air pollution.
i urge the member states to use public procurement contracts to pursue these objectives, which will have wide-reaching and long-term social, economic and environmental benefits.
− given that energy is an important factor in the operating costs of the fisheries sector and that the recent increase in fuel prices has led to a deterioration in the situation in the fisheries sector and has directly affected production costs in this sector, i believe that the european commission should examine the means of urgently taking appropriate measures to alleviate the difficult economic situation in which many european fishermen find themselves, also taking into account the financial difficulties currently faced by several countries with large fishing fleets.
progress in the member states in taking concrete measures to improve the business climate for small and medium-sized enterprises is not uniform and sometimes even marginal, despite the stated political commitments to the principles contained in this document.
− i voted in favour of the revision of the draft small business act because i believe that the european union must continue the process of strengthening support mechanisms to remove obstacles to the sustainable development of smes so that their potential can be fully exploited.
in this context, i would like to stress the need for member states to step up their efforts to support policies aimed at promoting entrepreneurship, creating a business-friendly environment for smes.
− i voted in favour of the report on 'an innovation union' because it underlined the importance of innovation in laying the foundations for a sustainable and competitive economic model and in creating new jobs in the european union.
there are already countries that are already making the most of the multiple resources of the cultural and creative industries, but the european union still needs to develop a strategic approach that will turn its cultural assets into the foundations of the energy and creativity of its economy and the cohesion of society.
– recycling and prevention of waste, air emissions and climatic change and sustainable consumption and production could be monitored much more effectively if high-quality data were available regarding the interaction between environmental and economic factors.
moreover, environmental data currently available should be expanded in the medium term to facilitate the necessary policy assessment of european environmental policy.
the proposed regulation establishes in this respect a common framework for the collection, compilation, transmission and evaluation of european environmental economic accounts by providing common european-wide methodology, common standards, definitions, classifications and accounting rules for compiling these accounts.
the regulation concerns the collection and compilation of data regarding air emissions, environmental taxes applicable to various economic sectors and macroeconomic material flow accounting.
accurate and adequate statistical data on energy and resource consumption are fundamental if we want to get indicators for progress and well-being beyond the gdp.
moreover, a sound assessment of the european environmental policy is only possible if reliable data is available.
the clarifications on the sustainable development chapter are important.
the eu has built its environmental standards according to the requirements of the member states.
but in the negotiations, the european executive must seek to promote an ambitious trade agreement that supports fair trade and contains legally binding social and environmental protection elements.
the agreement should not jeopardise the union's ability to review the fuel quality directive and to refuse to import oil from oil sands, which produces more carbon dioxide than conventional oil extraction and has major adverse environmental effects.
by rejecting this type of oil, the european union would remain credible in its desire to protect the environment and to respect the objectives of the kyoto protocol.
these are oil shale exploitation, which can be a danger to the environment as well as to local communities in the area, and the lack of reciprocity in the case of visa requirements for bulgarian, romanian and czech citizens.
the increase in competition would be achieved by creating a regulatory environment that promotes market entry.
the european union can help developing countries to fight poverty, and i believe that actions to help developing countries to combat climate change are also extremely important for the achievement of the millennium development goals.
there are eu actions in this area, covering agriculture, climate change adaptation, forestry, as well as marine and coastal resources management and water management.
in 2006, the global energy efficiency and renewable energy fund was established to mobilise private investment in energy efficiency projects and the promotion of renewable energy in developing countries and countries with economies in transition.
the 'energy - climate change' package also provides for the introduction of the 'clean development mechanism', which allows member states to make energy-efficient investments and use carbon credits in developing countries.
− this european parliament resolution is important because sgns (global navigation satellite system) is applicable to all modes of transport (land, sea, air), making traffic more efficient, helping economic growth and reducing pollution.
this motion for a resolution suggests, among other things, the allocation of funds for the research and development of new sgns applications that may have applicability in areas such as climate change, agriculture, civil defence, natural disaster alert systems, etc.
and regulatory convergence can make a significant contribution to promoting fair competition, in particular with regard to state subsidies and social and environmental standards.
− a sound scientifically-based approach to resource and ecosystem scarcity is essential for the sustainable economic development of the european union.
economic accounts for the environment constitute an important database for environmental policy decisions.
the need for these accounts is the result of the crucial functions of the environment in terms of economic performance and the generation of welfare for the citizens of the european union.
these functions include the provision of natural resources for production and consumption activities, the absorption of waste by ecological environments, and life-sustaining environmental services.
it is very important that these european environmental and economic accounts are actively used in all relevant european decision-making processes as a key element for impact assessments, action plans, legislative proposals and other important outputs of the decision-making process.
environmental accounts describe the interactions between the business, household and environmental environments.
they should therefore contribute to policy evaluation, in particular in providing data on the environmental effects of economic activities.
− assessing european environmental policy is only possible if reliable data are available.
environmental data currently available at european level should be enriched in the medium term by adding information to improve the possibilities for policy evaluation.
recycling and waste prevention, air emissions and climate change, and sustainable consumption and production would be much easier to monitor if high-quality data on the interaction between the environment and the economy were available.
these data may be collected in the environmental accounts, provided that all member states cooperate and that the harmonisation of the data is fully ensured at union level.
the objectives pursued should therefore be specified in a more coherent manner and clear prospects for the development of environmental economic accounts should be set out.
the environmental economic accounts should contribute to policy evaluation, in particular by providing data on the environmental effects of economic activities.
the relevant information could provide a very valuable basis for environmental policy decisions.
transport and energy policies need to be strengthened.
i am of the opinion that the whole of eu funding should lead to an improvement in the general state of the european environment.
positive and negative effects on climate, the environment and the use of eu funds should therefore be analysed at all levels.
the european union and its member states must build the means to provide a common response to the major social, economic, environmental, demographic and ethical challenges facing european states, such as population ageing, citizens' health, food supply, sustainable development and major environmental issues.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on eu-canada trade relations because it drew attention to the need to include social and environmental issues in the future eu-canada economic and trade agreement.
as far as environmental protection is concerned, i think it is important that the european union should refuse to import oil extracted from oil sands.
− the europe 2020 strategy states that the key drivers for smart growth are the promotion of knowledge, innovation and education, the digital society, but also sustainable and inclusive growth.
− the europe 2020 strategy identifies the key drivers for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth (increasing employment, training and poverty eradication).
calls on the member states to support innovative activities, doctoral and post-doctoral programmes that support competitiveness and sustainable economic growth.
achieving and maintaining a quality of life involves factors such as health, education, culture, employment, housing and environmental conditions.
i am in favour of establishing a sound legal framework for european economic and environmental accounts and encourage the need for reliable and harmonised statistics.
− i voted for this report because i believe that indicators must be found that are complementary to gdp and that help us measure factors such as climate change, biodiversity or resource efficiency.
i hope that the european executive will come up with concrete proposals for additional, more comprehensive and more sustainable indicators to address the current shortcomings.
however, it cannot provide information on all topics that are the subject of policy debates, such as the environment or social inclusion.
this indicator underpins many of the european union's policy decisions and instruments, and i believe that we need to step up our efforts to make indicators available that meet the needs of all citizens, namely to measure progress towards economic, social and environmental objectives in a sustainable way.
in particular, gdp does not measure either environmental sustainability or social inclusion.
we have an ambition for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe.
− this european parliament resolution on investing in the future: a new multiannual financial framework (mff) for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe is important both for achieving the eu 2020 objectives (on restoring and protecting long-term growth levels) and for preventing a repeat of the current economic crisis.
therefore, identifying key priorities for the future mff, such as knowledge for growth, cohesion for growth and employment, natural resource management and sustainable development, citizenship and a global europe, helps to allocate and make the most of existing resources.
in addition to funding for research and development, energy and transport, it is also necessary to consider investments in cohesion and agriculture.
it is necessary to include in the european investment plan for employment, the environment and innovation the measures necessary to develop the technical and scientific skills of young women, to improve their skills and employability, in particular in the growing strategic sectors where they are under-represented.
russia cannot continue to use energy policy to pursue its geopolitical interests by discriminating against individual member states, for example in terms of gas tariffs.
climate change, drug trafficking, non-proliferation and energy security are common challenges that require global solutions.
at the same time, the high representative must advocate at tomorrow's summit for russia's ratification of the energy charter treaty, because there can be no real energy cooperation between the european union and russia unless the principles of transparency, reciprocity, competitiveness and non-discrimination are respected.
the energy issue is another topic of interest following the creation of the agri project.
we agree that it is a multifaceted relationship in which economic, social and environmental issues, human rights and rule of law, security aspects and political cooperation are all of paramount importance.
point five: the question of energy cooperation will be addressed at the summit.
we need transparent, fair and competitive energy relations and we will raise our concerns with the russian president.
mongolia has significant energy and trade potential.
the european commission should also involve neighbouring states in the stress tests, to which the same testing criteria, established at eu level, should be applied, given the cross-border nature of the possible effects of nuclear energy.
− i voted for the joint resolution on the eu-russia summit because i believe that relations with russia, especially in terms of energy security, need to be strengthened.
i therefore call on the commission and the council to continue, intensify and accelerate their efforts to provide solutions and an environment for the holding of free elections and the protection of human rights in madagascar.
the removal of the democratically elected president from power has resulted in a climate of violence and insecurity.
it emphasizes, but also simplifies, the ecological component.
we are all aware of the potential and crucial role of the common agricultural policy in achieving the environmental and climate objectives, in providing public goods and, equally, in achieving the food security objectives of the eu.
we need to ensure the welfare of farmers and strengthen local economies, we need to ensure the protection of the environment and we need to be concerned about producing quality, safe and healthy food.
when it comes to agriculture, we don't have to focus exclusively on technological solutions or on discussions about technological solutions, but we have to consider consumption patterns, and the waste problem, and the complex relationship that exists between the environment, biodiversity and health.
i consider the report by mr dess to be essential in the context of the global food crisis and environmental risks today.
i believe that long-term productivity depends largely on the sustainable management of natural resources, another goal on the agenda.
to be effective in addressing these challenges, the cap needs to act in the context of sound economic policies and sustainable public finances that contribute to the achievement of the union's objectives in the context of the 2020 strategy.
food security is and will remain the main challenge for eu agriculture and beyond, as highlighted in the oecd-fao report agricultural outlook 2011-2020. i believe that we need to pay particular attention to the demographic challenges that affect the rural environment in particular.
if we do not do this, we will not save time but, on the contrary, we will waste time and the problem will become worse.
a unified eu strategy is needed to ensure a high level of competitiveness, sustainable growth and job creation.
a viable response to the sovereign debt crisis, the need to strengthen the euro and to return to a path of sustainable growth and job creation depends on effective coordination between member states, the strengthening of the stability and growth pact, in short, a strong europe, a goal also formulated in the slogan of the hungarian presidency of the european council.
the directive establishes the legal framework for the responsible management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, which is a much-needed regulation.
the national approach of the directive will result in the creation of radioactive waste sites throughout the union.
it's a waste of resources and a source of public concern.
it is the case now in romania, in my own region, with regard to the radioactive waste dump at kozloduy.
the issue of spent fuel and radioactive waste management is an important and pressing one, which has been given even greater prominence following the fukushima tragedy.
the problem is a growing challenge, despite technological innovations and solutions, and waste management programmes.
the management and disposal of radioactive waste is an existing problem and will remain so in the future.
in europe, we are striving for energy security, environmentally friendly and stable energy production, but at the same time we must put increasing emphasis on a number of problems, such as the processing, transformation and disposal of the rapidly increasing amount of radioactive waste.
although nuclear energy is attractive in terms of its low cost, it puts the safety of employees and civilians first.
i therefore support cooperation between member states for the safe disposal of nuclear waste.
i also believe that it is necessary for eu countries to share the waste treatment and storage facilities from nuclear power stations.
– the european union produces more that 40 000 m3 of radioactive waste each year, 80% is short-lived low-level radioactive waste and about 5% is long-lived low-level radioactive waste.
it is important that the union will implement a directive on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste.
romania is among those member states which are in favour of having the possibility to export radioactive waste to third countries.
as nuclear energy will remain part of the member states’ energy mix in the future it is important that such a report is adopted successfully in the plenary session of this parliament.
furthermore, it is important that citizens have confidence in the principles governing the safety of repositories and in waste management programmes.
in everything we do, we must ensure the safety of people and the environment.
strengthening transparency requires clarifying the responsibilities of the authorities and providing the public with reasoned and coordinated information in order to gain and maintain public confidence in the management of radioactive waste from the nuclear power generation process as well as from nuclear medicine.
i believe that reducing greenhouse gas emissions in europe is essential in the context of the cancun summit conclusions.
the eu must therefore maintain its role as a world leader in environmental protection.
this is why a reform of its environmental policy implementation is necessary.
i stress the importance of reviewing the mechanisms for monitoring emissions and taking them into account in the overall budget.
an improvement of the current eu emissions trading scheme would also be useful.
i draw attention to the impact of european environmental policy on long-term investment in green technology.
cohesion policy is an effective tool for addressing the major challenges facing europe's regions today, such as globalisation, climate change or demographic trends.
in this respect, innovation, education and training, energy, the environment, employment, competitiveness, skills and the fight against poverty are and must remain an integral part of structural and cohesion policy.
i regret the delays in the project selection process in strategic areas such as transport, certain energy and environmental investments, the digital economy, social inclusion, governance and administrative capacity building.
i regret the insufficient investment in energy efficiency and renewable energy projects for housing construction and housing projects for marginalised communities.
the european urban agenda should therefore aim to reduce disparities in the strategic areas needed for every modern european city, namely infrastructure, research and innovation, transport, environment, education, health and culture.
because only in this way, through an integrated approach to cohesion policy, will we help today's cities to develop organically, sustainably and responsibly towards the environment.
urban areas generate around 80% of gdp, are responsible for 70% of the energy consumed in the eu and are the most important centres of innovation, knowledge and culture.
smart cities require an intelligent communication, transport and energy infrastructure.
the implementation of intelligent transport systems (its) in urban areas will increase energy efficiency and transport safety.
as 99% of the european housing stock is made up of old buildings, i call on the commission and the member states to increase from 4% to 15% the share of the erdf that each member state can use to increase the energy efficiency of housing in the future multiannual financial framework.
i believe that coherence of policies aimed at growth and sustainable job creation is needed, with a particular focus on developing and strengthening the internal market, encouraging international trade and competitiveness and an effective framework for preventing and correcting excessive budgetary positions.
even if the political group i belong to had a different position, the one adopted in the environment committee of the ep, supporting an increase from 20% to only 35% of the production of tractors that can be placed on the market, even if they do not meet current environmental standards, the decision was to follow the interests of romania.
it respects the environmental protection objectives adopted some time ago by the eu.
however, the commission has opted to introduce a measure which is simple, effective and timely and which will make it possible: (a) for manufacturers in the eu to sell tractors, overcome the current difficult economic crisis, find new resources for research and comply with the limits laid down by european law for environmental protection purposes; (b) for farmers to replace their oldest tractors with new ones whose engines will be less polluting.
− this proposal for a directive establishes the eu legal framework for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste and revises the commission's proposal for a council (euratom) directive on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste.
sustainable management of radioactive waste and spent fuel must cover the entire life cycle of waste (from generation to temporary or final storage and post-storage closure) and environmental remediation.
at the same time, careful monitoring of environmental factors is required during the storage/storage of waste, as well as during its transport and the products obtained from the recycling of spent fuel.
all these measures must be followed to ensure safety for health and protection of the environment.
- i voted for the report on the proposal for a council directive on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, because nuclear safety in the eu depends on the proper management of spent fuel and radioactive waste.
the final responsibility for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste lies with the member states.
they must ensure that information on spent fuel and radioactive waste management is made available to the local and regional authorities concerned, workers and the public and that they are effectively involved in the relevant decision-making process.
the commission and the member states should ensure adequate financial resources in the long term for the activities and facilities required for spent fuel and waste management.
the amendments we tabled called for education and training schemes to maintain and develop the expertise and skills needed to manage spent fuel and radioactive waste.
i am not in favour of banning the export of radioactive waste, but i do ask that all specific contracts concluded between member states and third countries comply with recommendation 2008/956/euratom on criteria for the export of radioactive waste and spent fuel to third countries.
on behalf of the commission and ms kroes, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, ms rapti, on the work that she has done, and also to congratulate the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the work they have done on this report.
the commission is therefore planning to issue a communication, as has been mentioned, on the role of universal service in a broadband environment following the public consultation last year.
i believe that a change in the current energy generation portfolio is needed by moving towards more renewable energy sources and therefore i call on member states to adapt infrastructure to the energy mix needed to meet the eu's renewable energy, greenhouse gas (ghg) emission reduction and energy efficiency targets.
substantial investments in energy infrastructure are needed to achieve this by 2050 (approximately eur 200 billion).
failure to make these investments would mean: much higher costs in terms of environmental degradation, higher energy prices and energy insecurity and dependence.
upgrading national energy networks and interconnecting them into a super-smart grid could provide a stable and secure flow of energy at affordable prices for citizens and create more green jobs.
this is gradually evolving into a monopoly of food resources and at the same time has serious consequences for biodiversity.
national governments must have the right to stop the cultivation of these crops if they pose a danger to the environment or on socioeconomic grounds, and the legal right to restrict cultivation also implies responsibility.
− the dock dues scheme approved on 5 july 2011 by the european parliament authorises france to adopt, for the four french overseas departments, a differentiated dock dues scheme for certain products manufactured in the octs by 1 july 2014. the anchorage fee is vital to support the outermost regions which are economically and socially disadvantaged by certain permanent factors such as small size and insularity, remoteness from large markets, deficient topography and climate or dependence on a small number of marketed products.
the directive and regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the european parliament and of the council of 22 september 2003 on genetically modified food and feed establish a very rigorous framework which, if properly applied, allows for a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
the directive allows gmos to be authorised for placing on the market only if a specific environmental risk assessment has been carried out.
annex ii, which sets out the principles applicable to environmental risk assessment, requires consideration of direct and indirect, immediate and delayed effects, as well as an analysis of cumulative long-term effects on flora and fauna, soil fertility, degradation of soil organic matter, the human or animal food chain, biological diversity, animal health and problems of antibiotic resistance.
the high level of protection of health and the environment, which is the aim of the community legislative framework, can be achieved only if the member states are able to have, in view of their agricultural methods, the particularities of their territory and its way of planning, all the necessary studies on the host environment and the conditions of the monitoring plans.
but this must be accompanied by a substantial increase in funding for territorial cooperation, the so-called objective 3, in particular to support cross-border projects such as the trans-european transport and energy networks.
i consider that a positive aspect of this resolution is the substantial increase in funding for objective 3 - territorial cooperation, through which we will be able to support in particular crossborder projects for the trans-european transport and energy networks.
− budget support is a means of boosting the european union's partner countries' embrace of development policies and sustainable reform processes, strengthening national institutions and systems of accountability, and facilitating economic growth and poverty reduction.
− upgrading existing networks (electricity and gas) to reach smart grids is normally required to meet eu energy targets.
i would like to stress the environmental elements in this report: climate change.
substantial investments are needed in energy infrastructure to achieve our goal: a low-carbon economy by 2050, risk management (operational, environmental, political, anthropogenic, terrorist attack), socioeconomic impact.
i support the recommendation that member states provide information to citizens, civil society, economic operators and social partners in an appropriate manner on integrated energy networks, security of supply, integration of renewable energy sources to enable consumers to benefit from new technologies and smart energy use with a view to increasing energy efficiency.
high quality universal services such as health, education and childcare, and essential network services such as transport, energy and telecommunications are also essential for higher levels of labour market participation and for the development of a competitive, social market economy.
this report highlights a phenomenon that is having a significant impact on the european business environment.
i am counting heavily on your capacity for dialogue, on the positive energy you are giving off, and i am confident that you will send a clear message to the council that romania and bulgaria's accession to the schengen area is not in the interests of the two countries, but of the whole european union.
they will remain a foundation of our efforts to promote innovation, growth and sustainability.
in the future, consumers will be able to identify details such as energy value, amounts of lipids, saturated fatty acids, carbohydrates, carbohydrates, proteins and salt on food packaging much more quickly.
− under the new labelling rules, the energy value, amounts of lipids, saturated fatty acids, carbohydrates, carbohydrates, proteins and salt will have to be clearly visible on food packaging.
the commission should develop specific policies to ensure the transition towards a green and smart growth, especially as regards worker re-skilling for green jobs and assistance for greening european industry in the context of global markets, as well as encouraging the private sector to invest in low-emissions technologies that are favourable to innovation and job creation.
− i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the financial, economic and social crisis, to support the recommendations on the measures and initiatives to be taken to create mechanisms and develop coordinated policies to exit the member states' public debt crisis and prevent its recurrence by addressing its underlying causes, while encouraging strong and sustainable growth and employment.
i believe that a resumption of hostilities seriously threatens regional stability as well as european energy security.
instead of welcoming the switch to democratic regimes in some countries in northern africa, and instead of putting more energy and imagination into assisting the peoples there, a couple of governments – ironically, eu founder-members – afraid that 25 000 people entering the eu would affect their stability, considered that the best way to protect their own borders would be to close them.
i believe it is urgent to find sources of funding for the programme for the period 2011-2013 and then to establish a sustainable solution, including from a legal point of view, for the period 2014-2020. the un report on the food crisis requires us to act immediately and responsibly.
a key way to address these challenges is to promote the creation of a sustainable culture of active ageing, thus ensuring that the population segment of people approaching or over 60 years of age has appropriate opportunities for active participation in social life, cultural expression and sport, taking into account the positive contribution of these activities to mental and physical health.
i underline the necessity for women's full participation in all areas of peace and security in order to enhance conflict prevention, ensure sustainable peace and develop specific training programs allowing female entrepreneurs to increase their participation in world trade.
the challenges we face, the sovereign debt crisis, the alarming unemployment rate, the volatility of food prices, illicit trade, climate change, all require global management.
furthermore, enhanced cooperation between the wto and other international organisations and bodies, such as the food and agriculture organisation of the united nations, the international labour organisation or the united nations environment and development programmes, could lead to the creation of international standards addressing trade, social, development and environmental concerns.
if we really want free trade and economic globalisation on a level playing field, then we have to take into account more than a few factors essential to economic equilibrium, such as the need to encourage trade, especially in technology and innovation, and to avoid causes of harm to the quality of life of citizens and the environment.
with a view to the 8th world trade organisation meeting in geneva, the most appropriate solutions to address the main challenges facing these countries must be identified so that trade can drive sustainable development.
food insecurity, caused by massive price increases and climate change, is one of the key elements to be considered in this regard.
i also stress the need to invest in the recycling of raw materials and rare earths, as their mining, refining and recycling have serious environmental consequences if not managed properly.
the intensification of innovation in the means of using raw materials by european industries will contribute significantly to european competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply.
these resources are crucial to the eu's transition to a sustainable, low-carbon economy.
i also believe that special attention should be paid to the recovery of useful materials from waste in urban areas.
last but not least, we must ensure that the european union develops sustainable and mutually beneficial partnerships with resource-rich countries and strategies based on them.
i have sent several messages to the commission, asking for a legislative proposal that would concretely reflect the desire of european citizens to protect the environment.
last week, the commission decided to say that 'as regards the introduction of a general ban on mining with cyanide-based technologies, the commission considers that it is not justified by actions relating to the protection of the environment or health.
commissioners, by defying the decision of the european parliament, you will automatically be complicit in what means the destruction of an entire region of romania, a disaster not only economic but also cultural and social, an environmental disaster in a country of the european union.
recognising the importance of the black sea economic cooperation organisation, the black sea synergy, the convention on the protection of the black sea against pollution and the geostrategic importance of the black sea for the european union, we call on the commission to develop a european union strategy for the black sea region, which should be integrated with the european union strategy for the danube region.
the challenges facing the black sea fisheries are: lack of cooperative regional fisheries management, use of destructive harvesting techniques, eutrophication and pollution, pollution from land-based sources and direct discharges, loss of valuable spawning and breeding habitats, and fishing.
i believe that the black sea should be given an appropriate status in community policies and to this end, sufficient diplomatic and scientific efforts should be made and adequate financial resources should be made available for sustainable fishing in this basin.
european citizens, the environment and european industry must benefit from a high level of security and the industry must benefit from a simplified legislative framework and a level playing field.
i also call on the member states and the commission to ensure that the authorisation regime provides for adequate financial instruments so that, in the event of a major incident, the financial resources needed to cover the economic, social and environmental damage caused by an oil or gas leak can be mobilised as a matter of urgency.
before the offshore licences are granted, i think it's necessary to do environmental impact studies.
however, the european business environment is characterised by inequality between men and women.
this will not only encourage them to move up in the business environment, but also ensure a fair environment where there is no place for gender discrimination.
− the european union's environmental policy is based on the precautionary principle and the principle of preventive action, the principle of priority of remediation of environmental damage at source and the 'polluter pays' principle.
environmental effects must be taken into account as early as possible in all technical planning and decision-making processes.
i believe that the authorisation of public and private projects which may have significant effects on the environment should be granted only after a prior assessment of the possible effects of these projects on the environment has been carried out.
certain types of projects have significant effects on the environment and should generally be the subject of systematic evaluations.
in this respect, the independence of auditors is the overriding element of the audit environment.
this will attract as many participants as possible to the audit market and create an effective competitive environment.
these resources are crucial to the eu's transition to a sustainable, low-carbon economy.
a strong focus is also placed on reducing our reliance on imports by stepping up exploration and production within the eu (including research into better clean technologies) where possible- it also calls for recycling and re-use and a gradual ban on waste landfill, while at the same time advocating reopening old landfill sites to extract valuable scrap metal and raw materials.
i encourage the creation of a common political mechanism for the six countries bordering the black sea, to ensure, among other things, environmental protection and to facilitate the economic and social development of coastal areas.
this new policy mechanism for the black sea should aim to preserve and enhance biodiversity, as well as the prosperity of people working in the fisheries sector in the area.
it's not just the ecological balance, it's the livelihood of the fishermen.
− the decision to vote in favour of the resolution containing a new strategy for the maintenance of the black sea fish stocks came naturally, given that the improvement of the marine ecosystem is of direct concern to us as a country bordering the black sea.
the european union, the world's second-largest fisheries power, needs to maintain this status by better addressing pollution and the effects of climate change on fish stocks.
− domestic oil and gas sources make a significant contribution to meeting europe's current energy needs and are now essential for our energy security and diversity.
i believe that the provisions of this report are of major importance in instructing member states on the measures to be taken, both individually and collectively, in the event of ecological disasters which do not take account of the land or sea borders of a state.
i also welcome both the report's initiative to create a safer environment for the worker who is constantly exposed to environmental factors harmful to his health and the plan proposed for the arrangements for financial compensation in the event of an accident at work.
this will encourage women to advance in a business environment that is equitable and gender-neutral.
energy market integrity and transparency is a key instrument for the completion of the internal energy market by 2014. we must bear in mind that the emergence of abuses in the energy market in a particular member state can have consequences for the whole of the european union.
i reiterate that energy liberalisation must first and foremost benefit consumers, stimulate investment and not generate wealth overnight, as has happened in some member states, such as romania.
it should be borne in mind that the fundamental purpose of the european energy market is to offer consumers lower prices by stimulating competition.
the energy market is not only trans-european but also regional.
energy markets in the european union are increasingly crossing national borders and this is likely to increase strongly in the coming period.
unfortunately, the system governing energy market transparency and market abuse has created significant gaps in the applicable rules and the level of transparency.
i would, however, recommend that account be taken of the fact that european energy markets are organised in regional groupings and i believe that we must continue to pay greater attention to the specificities of national and regional markets in order to ensure the proper application of legislative rules.
in addition, it is only within the internal market that we can tackle common targets for co2 reduction or renewable energy.
i think that this debate has shown the importance that all of us, all the institutions, attach to the introduction of instruments to strengthen the functioning of the common energy market.
i think that the time taken to reach a compromise between the institutions is particularly important, especially in an area as sensitive as the energy market and in a time as turbulent as the present.
like commissioner oettinger, i hope that the regulation we are discussing today will be seen in the future as a milestone in the construction of the energy market, the construction of a market which is transparent, friendly to our consumers and friendly to our businesses.
benefiting from preferential and non-transparent contracts, some companies were able to buy energy at very low prices, only to sell it back at prices up to three times higher.
these measures allow the eu to move towards the single energy market and open and fair competition in wholesale trade.
the proper functioning of the energy market is essential for the entire economy and for the daily lives of european citizens.
secondly, as regards european environmental legislation, the european commission should monitor more closely and act accordingly to ensure that all european acts and legislation are respected and implemented, and this must be done at all stages of project development, not just when they have been implemented.
for example, the move towards sustainability requires a kind of greening of this policy as well.
we will think about the consequences of changing international trade patterns for this sector and try to ensure sustainability, but also provide for the necessary transition and transformations in this sector.
i would like to know, in the context of the fight against climate change, how you support the internationalisation of european smes to provide clean solutions for industrial development in third countries.
the climate change that we are all experiencing has ecological and social consequences that ultimately affect human health through changes in the quality and quantity of water, air and food, but also through altered weather patterns, agriculture and ecosystems.
it has been scientifically demonstrated that the benefits of reducing anthropogenic non-co2 emissions are felt immediately and directly in the areas where measures are taken.
i'm glad that we've moved past the phase where carbon dioxide emissions were the cause of all the evils in the earth's atmosphere, and that it's finally time to act on the other factors that are as bad as carbon dioxide.
as an example, the total global warming impact of the use of hydrofluorocarbons (hfcs) is currently estimated to be about 2% of total greenhouse gas emissions.
however, it is expected that an increase in demand for hfcs could lead to a contribution of 7-13% of total greenhouse gases by 2050. as such, if we are to take the bull by the horns, the industry would need a stable legal framework quickly to encourage manufacturers to develop alternatives to hfcs.
as i said, this is just one example of many possible actions in the case of reducing anthropogenic emissions.
also, because the montreal protocol has succeeded in demonstrating that it is possible to successfully reduce greenhouse gas emissions, i believe it is the most appropriate forum to regulate and reduce the production and consumption of hydrofluorocarbons internationally.
eu action over the past decades has resulted in a considerable reduction in emissions of air pollutants, including sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds, ammonia and particulate matter.
measures on energy efficiency of buildings and waste recycling will also contribute significantly to reducing pollutant emissions.
commissioner, i would like to ask you what measures you intend to take to ensure that the emissions generated by the industrial sectors are reduced, especially in the context of the economic and financial crisis.
a paradox of our times is the need to control emissions and the trend towards increased consumption in an era of globalization.
we see the devastating effects of climate change, but we hesitate to take action.
europe is an example of initiative in the fight against climate change.
in this way, we will take a step towards stabilising the labour market and reducing unemployment, contributing to sustainable economic growth.
in the energy market we need rules to prohibit abusive practices and to define precisely every detail, which is what the new regulation covers.
we need to monitor energy trading activities equally with the help of both national supervisory authorities and the responsible european agency.
the introduction of an energy market integrity and transparency regulation will ensure fairness in wholesale energy trading.
i welcome the adoption of this regulation and am convinced that it brings us closer to the creation of an internal energy market.
− this framework targets energy markets, in addition to the regulations already in place for financial markets.
unfair practices in energy markets affect the price level so much that they cannot fulfil their role of sending clear signals to power stations, individuals and businesses on the optimal use of energy, provide guidance on reasonable investment in energy infrastructure and encourage energy efficiency.
transparency of energy markets is a prerequisite for better integration of the eu energy market, which should bring important benefits for consumers.
− i voted in favour of this report because the energy market integrity and transparency regulation is a key instrument for the completion of the internal energy market by 2014. it will create a framework defining coherent rules, adapted to the specificities of energy markets and designed to detect and discourage market abuse.
we must bear in mind that market abuse in a particular member state will not be limited to that member state but can have consequences at eu level and we must not forget that the fundamental purpose of the european energy market is to offer consumers lower prices by stimulating competition.
− the regulation aims to prohibit market manipulation and insider trading in the eu’s energy markets and defines them and puts in place monitoring mechanisms and penalties to dissuade from such forms of market abuse.
acer (agency for the cooperation of european energy regulators) is given a strong role to play: to monitor and help enforce the regulation with national regulatory authorities, a registration scheme for market participants (with the possibility for a licensing scheme should this not prove sufficient), ensuring that penalties take into account the consumer damage caused by market abuse, that acer will be allocated sufficient funds in a review in order to take into account the extra tasks assigned to it.
voting this report we act to curtail market abuse and speculation in the wholesale energy markets, to protect the consumer, as it is ultimately consumers who pay more for their electricity and gas when these abuses occur.
− in an effort to mitigate the consequences of climate change, the european climate policy has been focused on long-term reductions of co2 emissions.
scientific data prove that the eu policy is lacking a comprehensive approach towards the reduction of the non-co2 climate-relevant anthropogenic emissions, namely the hfcs, black carbon and pollutant gases that lead to formation of tropospheric ozone.
the same data indicate that it is important to complement our efforts against climate change, by firmly and timely addressing the non-co2 pollutants, while taking advantage of existing technologies and institutions.
relevant policy options include: (a) phasing down the production and consumption of hfcs with global warming potential, to accelerate the phase-out of hcfcs, and recover and destroy stratospheric ozone-depleting ghgs in discarded products and equipment, (b) reduction of emissions of black carbon, giving priority to emissions that affect regions of snow and ice, including the arctic glaciers; (c) reduction of pollutant gases that lead to formation of tropospheric ozone, a significant ghg.
the eu needs to develop a broader, more comprehensive climate change policy which would address the harmful effects of non-co2 climate-related anthropogenic emissions, such as hfcs, black carbon and other pollutant gases which are particularly damaging to the lower ozone layer.
− i very much welcome this initiative and the attention which is now being paid to addressing non-co2 emissions.
given the disproportionately large influence on climate change of some of these gases, it is clear that any effective emission reduction strategy cannot focus solely on carbon dioxide.
the long-term objective of achieving a sustainable improvement in the situation must also be borne in mind.
but financial support is not enough, a long-term strategy must be considered to bring about sustainable development in the region, with the involvement of the entire international community.
the agenda includes 25 items covering crossborder cooperation on the digital dividend, crossborder interference, radio spectrum for the development of the galileo programme, provision of spectrum for mobile data traffic, introduction of modern communication systems for air safety, communication satellites, emissions from short-range devices, mobile maritime service and ships and ports equipped with security systems, radar in the 15.4 to 15.7 ghz band.
an important step to be taken by the republic of moldova is to reform the judicial system and adopt viable measures against corruption, in order to be able to develop the business environment and attract foreign investors and also to improve trade with the european union.
the european union welcomes the cooperation of the moldovan authorities in the fields of foreign policy, energy policy, trade and human rights, which has led to the closure of many chapters in the negotiations.
i stress that solving the problem of hunger in the horn of africa, and in particular in somalia, will only be possible if the underlying political, economic, environmental and security issues are tackled together by local actors and the international community.
− europe is facing a growing prevalence of noncommunicable diseases such as cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, obesity-related conditions, musculoskeletal disorders, all of which are caused by the interaction of various genetic, environmental and mainly lifestyle factors (smoking, excessive alcohol consumption, unbalanced diets and lack of physical activity).
galileo is a step towards a stronger europe and i believe that by supporting the acquisition of an additional band (2483.5 2500 mhz), protected against interference from other radio services, the programme will have major implications for many european union policies, such as transport, communications, research or the environment.
we are currently facing an economic, social and environmental crisis, and fundamental and applied research, education and innovation are crucial tools for economic recovery and job creation.
the common strategic framework for research and innovation funding must be based on the coordination of the european union's and member states' research programmes and address global societal challenges such as demographic change, sustainable resource management and a sound, stable and equitable economic base.
in a difficult context they are essential for a sustainable economic recovery.
the development of inland waterway transport and tourism can contribute to the sustainable development of cultural, nature and leisure tourism.
the current proposal for an energy efficiency directive proposes measures to reduce energy consumption by 20% by 2020, including improving technologies and reducing losses in energy systems.
next winter, a million families will be unable to pay their heating bills and will have to relinquish their heat energy and live in the cold.
but if the construction is faulty, the impact becomes negative from an ecological and social point of view.
the growing danger of food speculation, climate change, biofuels, biodiversity loss, soil degradation and pressure on water resources are the main causes of hunger, malnutrition and food insecurity.
ensuring food security requires the coherence and coordination of the various sectoral policies at eu level, namely development policy, the common agricultural policy, the common trade policy, energy policy and research programmes.
this is the only way to promote food and nutrition security in a sustainable manner for the most vulnerable populations and to increase their resilience.
the commission believes that sustainable fisheries and aqua-culture also have an important role to play in the fight against hunger and malnutrition.
we believe that more european funds are needed to develop energy infrastructure and energy efficiency measures for housing.
at present, romania and bulgaria are in difficulty in absorbing funds, especially in environmental protection.
since then, we have seen many natural disasters unfold around the world, with significant human, environmental, and economic costs.
last year, the european parliament adopted a resolution calling for a complete ban on the use of cyanide technology in mining projects, because of the potential for cross-border environmental catastrophe in the event of an accident.
yet despite this, the romanian government is about to approve such a mining project, which poses a grave threat to the environment and valuable cultural heritage of a whole region.
we must bear in mind that our environmental footprint extends far beyond the union's borders and we must therefore be solidarity-oriented not only in sharing the benefits of our actions but also in sharing the costs.
trade imbalances and speculative activity are at the root of this volatility, and climate change will continue to exacerbate it.
this long-term strategy must have clear objectives, take account of developments in the international trading system and emphasise elements consistent with union principles, such as the importance of access to generic medicines for the poorest, or the need to include fair trade, human rights and social and environmental standards automatically in all trade agreements.
the partnership seeks to ensure eu access to cape verde’s fertile waters and that this access is carried out in the most sustainable manner.
however, due to the regulations upholding sustainable fishing practices, a large decrease in employment has resulted.
therefore, to ensure strong and sustainable economic growth, we need a coherent strategy to make research and innovation more efficient and to facilitate the market penetration of innovative products.
improving regional convergence and balance at european level will strengthen europe's global competitiveness and bring economic growth, job creation and research sustainability.
european schools were created to guarantee the education of the children of staff of the european institutions who work and live abroad in a different cultural environment.
recently, there has been a dramatic increase in the number and severity of these natural and man-made disasters, affecting citizens worldwide with corresponding increases in loss of life, economic, social and environmental damage and damage to cultural heritage.
the most effective disaster management strategy is an integrated approach to crisis response at all stages, taking into account all risks and linking disaster prevention with preparedness, response and recovery in the broader context of sustainable development.
i believe that the strategy presented by the commission represents a concrete starting point for the development of sustainable, competitive, modern, high-quality and accessible tourism.
it should therefore be stressed that rethinking the management of freshwater resources in the context of climate change is undoubtedly a key challenge for the whole world.
i believe that balanced investment in management measures and improvements in water collection and storage methods is needed to increase efficient and sustainable water uses, to mitigate the effect of floods and recurrent droughts and to achieve minimum water security.
i urge priority to be given to investments that reduce rural poverty, strengthen climate resilience and adaptation and stimulate cooperation in the international watershed.
as food insecurity is aggravated by many factors, but particularly climate change, i believe it is necessary and urgent for the european union to take action to restore food stocks which have fallen to record levels in recent years, which has implicitly led to speculation on the prices of agricultural products on the market.
small farmers must use sustainable agricultural practices and have access to microcredit.
in view of the growing population and the increasing pressure on natural resources, it is essential to ensure sustainable and efficient agricultural production on a global scale.
to have a competitive and sustainable economy, the eu needs an internal services policy.
in that respect, i am particularly concerned at the possibility that the new revolutionary authorities in those countries, faced with the impossibility of fulfilling the high expectations of their populations, might try to deflect popular energy towards israel.
this could add a strategic and an energy crisis, which would multiply the economic crisis that we already know.
european families are facing rising prices, especially for energy, transport and food, and declining incomes, which are driving down living standards.
the union and the member states must invest as a priority in education and health, but must also ensure the development of transport, energy and communications infrastructure, and not least agriculture.
last but not least, member states' budgetary planning must be based on realistic forecasts, while paying due attention to the sustainability of their social protection systems.
the budgetary surveillance framework should be accompanied, in particular in times of economic downturn, by effective efforts to stimulate sustainable growth, protect social cohesion and create jobs, while respecting the priorities and needs of each member state.
coordination of the economic policies of the member states must take place in the context of the broad economic policy guidelines and the employment guidelines and must involve respect for guiding principles such as price stability, the soundness and sustainability of public finances and monetary conditions.
the internal market must contribute to the sustainable development of the union, based on balanced economic growth and price stability, a highly competitive social market economy, aiming at achieving full employment and social cohesion, and ensuring a high level of environmental protection and improving the quality of the environment.
the internal market should contribute to the sustainable development of the union, based on balanced economic growth and price stability, a highly competitive social market economy, aiming at full employment and social cohesion, and a high level of environmental protection and improvement.
measures proposed to a given member state to correct imbalances should take into account the objectives of a union strategy for growth and jobs and the need to use such a strategy as a tool for ensuring sustainable internal cohesion.
the budgetary framework is intended to ensure that member states apply prudent budgetary policies so that stricter forms of coordination are not necessary to avoid jeopardising the sustainability of public finances and potential negative consequences for the whole of economic and monetary union.
− the eu's primary tasks in terms of economic and monetary stability are to curb national waste and to protect economic growth against macroeconomic shocks.
as for food aid expenditure, let us not forget that each european citizen produces 180 kilograms of food waste a year, the level of waste is staggering, half of the food produced each year in europe is thrown away and turned into waste.
reducing this waste would allow us to provide the necessary food for all the poor in europe and beyond.
as regards the effectiveness of these funds - mr nicholson raised this question - and the waste, we will be able to see how, from 2014 onwards, we can improve the functioning of this programme.
the rio+20 conference provides an important opportunity to discuss global challenges such as resource efficiency, sustainability and food security.
small farms that have a low environmental impact and provide food security for millions of people need to be supported and promoted.
the second element i want to highlight is the marine environment.
it highlighted not only the risks of nuclear energy but also those of policy decisions in this area taken in an emotional context and under pressure from public opinion.
i believe that policy decisions on the european energy mix must take account of the development of new low-carbon technologies in order to avoid the forced implementation of support schemes that can cause distortions in the energy market and increases in electricity prices.
the rio summit on sustainable development must provide solutions for the development of a resource-efficient global eco-economy that contributes to the achievement of the millennium development goals.
we also need to encourage the use of all low-carbon and renewable energy sources, but especially energy efficiency measures in transport, agriculture, industry and housing.
these measures will ensure affordable electricity prices, but also increase energy security.
in order to achieve the objectives of providing affordable energy to consumers and to meet climate change targets, it is necessary to maintain all low-carbon energy sources.
the rio+20 summit in june 2012 is a unique opportunity for world leaders to set the agenda for sustainability over the next 10 years and to reaffirm the need for global solidarity.
sustainable development must become an eu-wide priority in all eu processes and policies if the eu is to demonstrate consistency both internally and internationally.
there is one thing i do not agree with, however, and that is the intention to ban nuclear energy.
i support the draft resolution on the un conference on sustainable development, but i would like to point out that the paragraph referring to the complete elimination of nuclear energy from the european energy mix is contrary to the interests of certain member states, romania being one of them.
i believe that nuclear energy is essential, at least in the medium term, to ensure an affordable price of electricity for final consumers.
it is also a low-carbon technology that can make a substantial contribution to achieving europe's climate change objectives.
hastily made policy decisions on energy production, made under pressure from public opinion and in an emotionally inappropriate context, can have serious consequences.
they can affect the security of energy supply, lead to higher fossil fuel prices and even threaten the eu's energy independence.
the development of new energy technologies and the operation of the energy market must be for the benefit of consumers and not to their detriment.
we need to ensure a stable flow of energy at an affordable price, and therefore these issues must be properly analysed before decisions are taken such as the role of nuclear energy in the european energy mix.
we all recognise the need to set ambitious greenhouse gas emission reduction targets to combat climate change, and we are proud that the european union is leading the world in this important fight.
the end of the free allocation of allowances to electricity producers will of course have consequences for the price of energy, which will have repercussions on the competitiveness of energy-intensive industries, as well as the steel industry.
it is also necessary that those compensations are proportionate to the level of indirect costs generated by the emissions trading system.
without this principle, the problem is only partially solved, which will threaten the competitiveness of the industry and therefore of several thousand jobs in the european union and a failure to reduce carbon emissions globally.
regardless of the improvements that will be made in the short and medium term to reduce carbon emissions from electricity generation, it is clear that the price of electricity will increase due to the additional costs of emission allowances.
this can eliminate the competitive disadvantages faced by steel and aluminium producers in countries that provide subsidies or do not promote policies to reduce carbon emissions.
i would like to underline that the role of the eu etc is to induce a positive change in the energy-intensive and emission-intensive industries towards more efficient technology.
the etc does not consider the competitiveness of the industries mentioned, which are caught in the middle between making investments to reduce emissions, thus internalising the debt service at their cost, and using market mechanisms to maintain existing technologies, i.e.
internalising the cost of emissions certificates.
the effects on the competitiveness of these sectors induce the risk of lost production cells and emissions reallocation, leading to job losses and to serious social effects.
for example, romania is highly exposed to carbon leakage as it is located at eu borders.
the competitiveness of european industry and the preservation of jobs in the european union therefore depend on how we succeed in modernising the energy-intensive industries.
i believe that the long-term preservation of jobs and production in these sectors within the european union depends on the measures we take now to modernise and make energy-intensive industries, including steel, more environmentally-efficient.
they talk about the fact that they produce an acceptable amount of harmful emissions.
the intensification of human activities that impact the biosphere can upset the ecological balance.
my country enjoys a unique biodiversity and has continuously participated in the development of international environmental policy.
romania supports sustainable development and promotes green technologies, which is why i am not in favour of eliminating nuclear energy from the european energy mix.
the construction of new nuclear power plants and the introduction of insufficiently tested technologies are damaging the environment by increasing carbon emissions.
− in the decade since the last world summit on sustainable development, the international community has faced dramatic challenges - from food crises and oil price fluctuations to natural disasters and unprecedented economic crises.
i consider that in this regard it is essential to strengthen the institutional framework for sustainable development, as set out in the un resolution of 24 december 2009. i hope that the european union will be able to be a mobilizing factor in achieving a global consensus on this.
− i voted in favour of the rio+20 resolution because it is necessary for the european union to formulate a unified position on sustainable development.
i believe that sustainable development policies should not be limited to environmental issues.
environmental, economic and social policies are interdependent.
there are many challenges that we need to find answers to: global warming, food insecurity, the rising global unemployment rate, and the high levels of poverty.
the responsibility is shared: industrialised and developing countries must commit to concrete targets at the united nations conference in june 2012. with the resolution adopted today, we are sending a strong signal: the european parliament wants the rio summit to be marked by global action for sustainable development, not by political declarations of intent.
− given that policy decisions on the european energy mix should take account of the development stage of new low-carbon technologies, i believe that the forced implementation of support schemes for immature technologies may cause distortions in the energy market and increases in electricity prices.
it is essential that the development of new energy technologies and the operation of the energy market do not come at the expense of the expectations of consumers, who want secure, stable and affordable electricity.
these aspects must be taken into account and properly analysed before any decision is taken on the role of nuclear energy in the european energy mix.
− sustainable development is and must remain a priority in all european union programmes and policies.
the rio+20 summit should result in concrete measures and quantifiable targets, and ways of assessing them, necessary to establish synergy between the elements of sustainable development.
this summit is a very important opportunity to strengthen political commitments on global sustainable development and to strengthen partnerships between industrialized and developing countries.
− the three main objectives of the rio+20 summit will be to secure renewed political commitment to sustainable development, to assess the progress to date and the remaining gaps in the implementation of past commitments, and to address new and emerging challenges.
the resolution stresses that, in order to enable the transition towards the green economy in the context of poverty eradication and to strengthen and improve the institutional framework for sustainable development, three interlinked policy dimensions need to be addressed while respecting human rights and ensuring environmental protection: investing in sustainable management of key resources and natural capital through r&d, establishing the right market and regulatory conditions abiding by the principle of equity, improving governance and involving civil society and the private sectors.
fair and equitable access to natural resources for present and future generations is a crucial precondition for sustainable development and poverty eradication; these are the aspects i voted for.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on the elaboration of a common eu position ahead of the un conference on sustainable development (rio+20).
the rio+20 summit can strengthen political commitment to global sustainable development and partnerships between industrialized and developing countries.
i voted in favour of paragraph 29 so that at the rio+20 summit commitments to promote the protection of water resources and the sustainable management of water as a public good are renewed.
i voted for amendment no 24 because i believe that we need to encourage the use of all low-carbon energy sources, including nuclear energy.
investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency measures are also becoming more important.
paragraph 54 of the resolution calls for states to remove from national policies provisions that subsidize or mandate the production or consumption of biofuels, at least until the implementation of safeguards to eliminate competition with food production, biodiversity and climate protection.
i voted for paragraph 71 because i believe that the revenues that can be generated by the introduction of a financial transaction tax at international level can be an important resource in supporting biodiversity and climate protection.
the eu also needs to invest in its transport, energy and communications infrastructure and information technology to increase its competitiveness.
it is a primitive aggression, eloquent for the climate of violence and terror in which yemeni women live.
the current climate in kiev could have serious consequences for eu-ukraine relations in the run-up to an association agreement.
in this context, i welcome the funding of energy efficiency projects.
i believe that the sustainable energy financing facility will help romanian smes to improve their competitiveness.
at the same time, supporting romania's strategy to increase the share of renewable energy will bring romania closer to european standards in this field.
in the next phase we should ensure that sectoral proposals – for example, on the environment and transport – are discussed by the national parliaments not only in the european committees but in the relevant sectoral committees.
for example, in romania, the five-point increase in vat from 19% to 24% had a negative impact on the business environment, generating pressures.
member states have had to raise vat ceilings, which has affected the business environment and slowed economic growth.
the eib should step up its work, particularly in sectors that would foster the progress of developing countries, such as environmental infrastructure, sustainable transport, health and education support.
ladies and gentlemen, after simplification, we will seek, in this package, to improve the current legal framework in order to facilitate the pursuit of societal objectives, which are also included in the europe 2020 strategy: the environment, social inclusion and innovation.
on the topics of innovation, social policy, the environment, which many of you have mentioned - mrs girling, mrs westlund, mrs gebhardt - you ask me what more the union can do.
as regards the sustainable dimension of the social and environmental aspects which many of you have mentioned, the consideration of the production process, as we envisage it, will be able to intervene not only in the technical specifications but also in the award criteria.
mrs berès mentioned the bonus malus, i could simply refer to the award of additional points to tenderers who meet the conditions in question, whether in social terms - the working conditions of the staff, respect for the minimum wage, or as i said, collective agreements or the conventions of the international labour organisation - or environmental considerations, for example the use of green energy sources.
in addition, it is essential for stimulating competition and innovation and for addressing rapidly social and environmental challenges arising from public policies, as well as the issue of quality of work, including adequate remuneration, equality, cohesion and social inclusion.
it seems to me more reasonable to take the whole life cycle of the product into account when estimating the cost, and where appropriate, the environmental impact.
i believe that, as long as the link between the subject of the contract and the criteria imposed is maintained, public procurement can be used in a pragmatic way to achieve synergies with other european policies and to achieve other objectives, such as those relating to the environment or the encouragement of innovation.
i believe that we have invested too much in saving the european banking system when productive and sustainable jobs are generated by small and medium-sized economic actors.
as the adoption of the small business act in 2008 has been beneficial for the entrepreneurial environment in europe, making the process of setting up a company easier and simpler, but also cheaper, i want to bring european private companies, so-called spes, into the discussion at this point on the agenda.
i recently learned what i did not know last year: in transylvania a 800 hectare toxic waste pool is to be built, and the beneficiary of the gold corporation, which is trying to loot 300 tons of uranium, 800 tons of gold and 2000 tons of silver and commit some real barbarism, is the american shark george soros.
i hear that the chairman of the european parliament's committee on the environment, my colleague jo leinen, will be visiting romania in november to analyse this untenable situation.
i also stress the importance of decentralisation processes in the partner countries, as set out in paragraph 15. the involvement of local actors is essential to ensure that aid is effective and sustainable.
− directive 2000/25/25/ec reduces the permissible levels of exhaust (gaseous and particle) emissions from engines in agricultural and forestry tractors.
− the non-road mobile machinery (nrmm) directive (97/68/ec) aims to control carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, hydrocarbons and particulates emissions (co2 emissions are not covered by this legislation) from a variety of engines such as excavators, bulldozers, front loaders, back loaders and compressors.
the flexibility scheme allows manufacturers to place on the market a limited number of engines belonging to the older category (with higher maximum permitted exhaust emissions).
environmental legislation should always be consistent with our medium-term and long-term environmental goals, but in the short run we are making efforts to support the recovery of smes from the economic crisis.
− i supported this report as it is an important part of eu legislation on the environment and public health.
the report provides for the protection of human health, in particular of workers and persons who are often exposed to emissions from engines installed in non-road mobile machinery.
as a member of the committee on industry, research and energy, i believe it is important to support research and development of technologies for people with disabilities to bridge social gaps and to give greater importance to the creation of accessible websites and effective communication channels for all european citizens with disabilities.
i draw attention to the importance of linking labour market demand with the development of new schools focused on vocational training and establishing the 16-18 years as the area of training and preparation for access to the labour market and increasing the chance of success in job retention and sustainability.
public procurement accounts for around 17% of eu gdp and can play an important role in ensuring sustainable employment, fostering innovation and sustainable working conditions, especially for businesses, and promoting social inclusion.
the introduction of the 'most economically advantageous' criterion will take into account objectives that bring economic and social benefits and have a low environmental impact.
i voted for this report because pp could be a real driver in promoting quality jobs, wages and conditions, and equality, developing skills and training, promoting environmental policies, and providing incentives for research and innovation.
i fully support the request to the commission to encourage governments and contracting authorities to increase the use of sustainable public procurement supporting and promoting good quality employment, and providing quality services and goods in europe.
− i voted for this report because effective global economic governance would minimise the negative impacts and correct the harmful effects of globalisation, such as the deepening of inequalities or the destruction of the environment.
i believe that we need strong structural reforms from governments to ensure the sustainability of public finances and to boost economic growth.
− organized crime has significant social costs, by draining and embezzling resources, distorting the free common market, corrupting legitimate businesses and economic activities, fostering corruption, polluting and destroying the environment, and violating human rights and democratic rules.
), by altering the common free market, by corrupting legitimate businesses and economic activities, by encouraging corruption, by polluting and destroying the environment, and by violating human rights and democratic rules.
we need a proper order of priorities, and jobs must take precedence over other considerations in energy market agreements.
as shadow rapporteur on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to mention that the achievement of sustainable growth has to be based on an inclusive labour market.
that is why i believe that investment in education, research and innovation must be significantly increased, taking into account the possibility of directing investment from the structural funds towards this area, in order to create the conditions for smart and sustainable economic growth.
we are discussing the need for european networks: transport, energy, communication.
− we voted for a 2012 budget that promotes a sustainable european economy and implements the europe 2020 strategy.
i voted for block 1 of amendments which concern the financing of the competitiveness and innovation framework programme, the completion of the e-ten network, the sesar joint undertaking, energy projects dedicated to the economic recovery of the eu, etc.
i therefore voted for additional funds to be allocated to the development of smart energy networks, to better integrate the eu energy market and to promote energy efficiency and renewable energy.
− to mobilise the potential of eu economies for economic recovery from the crisis, measures are needed to stimulate short-term recovery, strengthen sustainable economic growth, promote financial market stability and strengthen economic governance structures.
in this context, i find unacceptable the council's proposal to reduce the appropriations for the development cooperation instrument by eur 70 million and the attempt to reallocate existing development funds to tackle new political challenges - climate change, the 'arab spring' - which must be financed from additional resources.
the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth must be at the heart of the 2012 budget strategy and with a strong budget for this year we will help europe emerge stronger from the crisis.
it is thus difficult to promote a socially and economically sustainable and integrated society.
− recent economic and labour market developments, together with future challenges such as demographic change and the transition to a sustainable economy, require improvements in employment, education and work organisation strategies, with the aim of increasing the competitiveness of the european union, improving working and living conditions and creating new jobs, thus promoting smart growth combining employment, social protection and sustainable production and lifestyles.
the solutions to achieving our labour market objectives are many: from better anticipation of skills needs, to a closer link between universities and the business environment; from valuing non-formal education, to encouraging cross-border mobility for as many citizens as possible and the mutual recognition of diplomas; from creating more green jobs, to increasing the attractiveness of vocational education and also inducing a culture of lifelong learning.
achieving sustainable growth has to be based on an inclusive labour market to maximise the full potential of europe’s labour force, to increase employment rates and to improve job quality, equal opportunities and labour and social protection.
to increase competitiveness and create new jobs, the union needs to invest in the development and modernisation of transport, energy and communications infrastructure, agriculture, research and education.
european leaders have taken important decisions on the sustainability of public finances, structural reforms to ensure growth and support for the banking sector.
− we have lost two years because of the european council's inability or lack of interest to work together to implement a sustainable european programme for refugees.
furthermore, we hope that the dialogue between the envoys of the dalai lama and the chinese government – which, regrettably, has been frozen – will resume soon, since we strongly believe that only this dialogue can lead to positive results, by aiming at resolving outstanding issues in a peaceful and sustainable way for tibet.
i believe that it is beneficial to link rail transport as closely as possible with inland waterway transport, in order to cover the whole of the european union as well as to meet the objectives of reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
i believe that it is important for the future energy mix of the union to develop the knowledge base for iter and to make iter the main step forward towards the creation of prototype power plant reactors that are safe, sustainable, environmentally friendly and economically viable.
it is important that, under the second priority 'nuclear fission and radiation protection', practical developments towards safer management of long-lived radioactive waste are accelerated in order to increase in particular the safety and efficiency of resource use.
in order to achieve the eu 2020 goals of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, demographic change must be addressed as an opportunity, not a burden.
to this end, the jrc will continue, in collaboration with its international partners, to develop networks for measuring radioactivity in the environment, making all collected data immediately available to the public.
the current euratom framework programme, fp7 euratom (2007-2011), which consists of two specific programmes (one for 'indirect actions' and the other for 'direct actions' of the joint research centre (jrc), will expire at the end of 2011. i voted to extend the specific programme for 'direct actions' for 2012-13 to ensure the continuation of eu-funded research in the field of nuclear waste management and in the field of physical and radiological safety and security of nuclear systems.
i believe that the joint research centre should contribute to the supervision of the quality and efficiency of training and to the coordination of existing educational programmes in the field of nuclear energy both within the union and in the candidate and neighbouring countries.
− i voted in favour of the framework programme (2012-2013), which should contribute to the realisation of the 'innovation union', one of the flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy, by strengthening competition for scientific excellence and accelerating the implementation of key innovations in nuclear energy, in particular in nuclear fusion and safety, while also playing a role in addressing the challenges of the energy sector and climate change.
the programme aims to complement other union actions in the field of research policy necessary for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular those relating to education and training, competitiveness and innovation, industry, employment and the environment.
− i voted in favour of the european commission's proposals to continue nuclear research, because nuclear energy currently plays an important role in the energy mix of the member states and in ensuring energy security.
in addition, research in this area is also essential for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants in some member states and for long-term nuclear waste management activities.
it is important that the 7th euratom framework programme for nuclear research can continue until 2013 as it will allow companies, research centres and universities to contribute to the efficiency of nuclear energy (fusion and fusion) research and radiation protection.
− i voted in favour of the report on the regulation laying down the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in indirect actions under the european atomic energy community framework programme and for the dissemination of research results (2012-2013).
i stress the need to develop a sustainable workforce by establishing recruitment and retention strategies, promoting gender equality, lifelong education and training, with a focus on improving working conditions.
calls on the member states of the union to give careful consideration to the design of smarter policies that provide consumers with information that is truly useful to them, without creating additional burdens for societies, thus responding to the many challenges facing the eu today: increasing consumer empowerment and reducing inequalities, encouraging sustainable consumption, reducing consumer exposure to unsafe products, and protecting consumers, especially children, from misleading advertising.
i believe that special attention should be paid to intelligent energy systems; the use of new technologies should allow all network users to participate in the internal energy market in order to save energy and reduce energy costs.
coordinated efforts are also needed to better inform consumers about more efficient ways of buying and consuming food, in order to prevent and combat food waste.
− the beekeeping sector, as an economic and social activity, plays a crucial role in the sustainable development of rural areas through the creation of new jobs.
beekeeping also provides an important ecosystem service through pollination, which contributes to the enhancement of biodiversity by maintaining plant genetic diversity and maintaining balance.
i invite the commission to focus research on technological developments, disease prevention and control, the definition of sustainable agricultural practices, the promotion of non-chemical alternatives and the encouragement of integrated pest management techniques and the development of veterinary products against bee disease agents.
− i voted in favour of this report because beekeeping is a hugely important economic and social activity, which plays a crucial role in the sustainable development of rural areas in europe, creating jobs and providing an important service to the environment through pollination.
it also contributes to the improvement of biodiversity by preserving the genetic diversity of plants, and bee colonies provide important ecological assets and food security.
i have supported the commission's pilot surveillance programme on bee health and i also support the establishment of the european reference hives network to monitor bee health in relation to environmental conditions and farming and beekeeping practices.
− beekeeping plays a crucial role in the sustainable development of rural areas and provides income, directly or indirectly, for over 600 000 citizens.
therefore it needs: to increase the level of support for honeybee-health-related research on disease prevention and control, particularly the impact of environmental factors on the bee colony immune system; continuous research and development of veterinary medical products for current eu honeybee-disease-causing agents; more coordinated action at eu level with a network of national surveillance systems and harmonised standards for data collection; more flexible rules for the authorisation and availability of veterinary products for honeybees; to encourage a greater degree of information-sharing among member states, beekeepers, farmers, industry and scientists on ecotoxicological factors affecting honeybee health; adequate training for beekeepers on disease prevention, as well as for farmers on safe use of plant protection products; to boost financial aid for apiculture under the new cap after 2013
in writing.
this sector provides vital services to agriculture through pollination and contributes to the maintenance of biodiversity.
to enable the future provision of smart energy or broadband communications services, substantial investment is needed to modernise infrastructure, particularly in regions where it is lacking, in the energy, telecommunications and public transport sectors.
the union shall contribute to the establishment and development of trans-european networks in the transport, telecommunications and energy sectors.
the risk directly affects the rural environment, women and young people.
i voted for amendment no 8, which calls for the eu to support the introduction of minimum social and environmental standards to prevent poverty and social exclusion, in particular energy poverty and rising rents, which lead to evictions and homelessness.
i voted for paragraphs 71 and 95, which reiterate parliament's call for sectoral legislative initiatives on the quality and accessibility of social services of general interest, particularly in the fields of health, education, public transport, energy, water and communications, and encourage member states respectively to ensure a minimum income based on at least 60% of the average income of each member state.
if the european union is not a problem, then we must leave with a leadership position in the fight against climate change.
we can do this through a broad and effective action of environmental diplomacy, so that in durban we can get clear targets to achieve our goal.
we need to bring a new dynamic to the european union negotiations and we need to do so in a way that encourages our partners to reduce their emissions.
we also need to support the creation of that green fund so that we can support all the measures needed to mitigate the effects of climate change.
we need to consider, if we are to speak with one voice in durban, to demand the principle of climate justice.
because the most affected by climate change are the disadvantaged, those living in poverty and at risk of poverty, especially women and children.
the establishment of the green climate fund at the copenhagen conference gave hope that we could mobilize a common will to identify solutions to climate change.
in preparing for the durban conference, we need to take into account new objectives in the area of changing and adapting current energy infrastructure and supporting measures to increase efficient investment in low-carbon technologies.
during 2010, global carbon dioxide emissions increased by 5% due to increased productivity in emerging economies.
in concrete terms, we can better guide municipalities and regional authorities towards a transition to a low-carbon local economy through existing community support.
global warming is one of the most serious threats of our time.
the effects of climate change will have significant ecological, economic and social impacts.
i believe that the eu should retain its role as a global climate leader and have a clear strategy at the durban conference.
environmental policy needs to be integrated more effectively into other sectoral policies.
in my country, the priority action plan for implementing the community environmental acquis this year includes 85 measures.
the legislative package deals in particular with industrial pollution control, waste management and water quality.
at the same time, the danube delta's climate change adaptation strategy is promoting energy production from sustainable biomass cultivation.
i also understand that everyone here agrees that, in order to have an internationally global deal that effectively combats climate change, we need all the major emitters, all the major economies, to be part of the solution.
dan jørgensen referred to the world energy outlook and that it said that we have only five or six years left.
that is, of course, why we cannot afford a conference in durban where, when we leave for home, it seems that we got something good for the process but we did nothing that could reduce emissions.
we must always bear in mind that reducing emissions is the important thing.
there i am also glad that the transitional committee that should prepare green climate fund governance has agreed, with the exception of saudi arabia and the us, to ask the cop 17 to adopt a governance structure for the green climate fund.
chris davies and mrs del castillo also mentioned energy efficiency.
i agree, and the commission is also in full agreement, that we could take it much further in europe if we were actually addressing energy efficiency much more systematically.
finally, i am very much looking forward to working with the ep delegation in durban and with the presidency, all of us ensuring that europe speaks with one voice and hopefully together we can achieve progress in durban – progress that does not only look like progress when it comes to the process, but actually is progress also when it comes to taking care of the interest of actually combating climate change.
the situation is serious: climate change, emissions are rising, europe is in financial crisis.
at durban, it will certainly be very important to strike a positive balance between mitigation and adaptation, while at the same time not forgetting what we have to do in europe, which is also adaptation to climate change.
by understanding this problem broadly, not just as a climate issue, but as an ecosystem issue, related to water and waste.
there is ample scientific evidence of climate change and its consequences, which necessarily requires international action to address this major challenge of our century and the future.
i believe that there is a need for a broader and more effective european environmental diplomacy, supported by all the eu institutions, which aims to present clear objectives in climate change policies, bring a new dynamic to international negotiations and encourage partners around the world to introduce mandatory greenhouse gas emission reductions and appropriate climate change mitigation and adaptation measures.
in order to provide new impetus and direction in future negotiations, more attention should be paid to the fact that tackling climate change can create economic opportunities and ways to shape more resource-efficient societies.
union policies must be coherent and focus on sectors that provide the basis for sustainable development.
to be able to benefit from the contribution of our partners in the south is, i think, a real opportunity and we must not waste it.
the 'european heritage label' also ensures the harmonisation of environmental protection measures in the areas where cultural sites are located.
the eu and its member states need industrial development, in areas where the eu is competitive, the development of transport, energy and communications infrastructure, investment in education and research.
− reform of the single european railway area is necessary because the sector has been in steady decline for years, while road transport of passengers and goods has increased, leading to congestion and environmental degradation.
rail freight - now at 10% while road freight has increased to 45.9% - has potential for growth and can play a key role in the eu's achievement of its goals of a more sustainable and greener transport system for europe.
as a sustainable and environmentally friendly transport system for europe, the commission must give railway transport a greater role and must make every effort to eliminate the many discrepancies between existing rules at national level.
− parliament's call to the participants in the durban climate change conference is clear: the parties must ensure that a comprehensive, equitable, ambitious and binding post-2012 international agreement is reached, based on the kyoto rules system.
the main objective of this agreement must be to reduce greenhouse gas emissions globally and nationally as quickly as possible.
the durban conference is essential for the further implementation of the cancun agreements, for setting a global emissions ceiling and for the global 2050 emission reduction target by setting a clear trajectory.
last but not least, durban must say whether the 2050 greenhouse gas emission reduction target and the 2°c target are appropriate.
to this end, the eu must step up its efforts and pressure, building on the commission's roadmap for moving to a competitive, low-carbon economy by 2050. developed countries must take on the collective responsibility of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in a much more responsible and effective way, and emerging countries have a duty to take on the role that corresponds to their new share in the global economy.
− we all know that there is overwhelming scientific evidence for climate change and its consequences.
i believe that at all levels of national governance around the world, we need to invest in the fight against climate change.
i strongly believe that all these policies must continue to focus on climate change mitigation and adaptation and allocate the necessary resources to these goals, even in the current economic crisis.
− i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that there is ample scientific evidence for the existence of climate change and its consequences, which requires immediate international action to address one of the most important challenges of the 21st century and of our common future.
it is also true that european countries must make critical and balanced choices to maintain their prosperity and security in the future and that they must adopt national greenhouse gas emission reduction targets in line with the eu's climate change objectives.
last but not least, i argue that we need a comprehensive, equitable, ambitious and legally binding post-2012 international agreement, based on the international rules of the kyoto protocol, that seeks to gradually reduce global greenhouse gas emissions.
in paragraph 73, the text refers to sustainable land management practices, including through forest conservation, sustainable forest management, afforestation or sustainable agriculture.
in this context, i welcome the recent commission proposals on the reform of the common agricultural policy which share these concerns about environmental protection.
i recognise the importance of proactively adapting to the unavoidable consequences of climate change, particularly in the regions of the world most affected by climate change, and, above all, of protecting the most vulnerable groups in society.
i therefore call on the eu to make every effort to reach a binding emissions reduction agreement in durban with firm financial commitments that support the implementation of climate change adaptation and mitigation measures.
only in this way can the eu maintain its leadership and achieve its 2020 strategy objectives of sustainable growth for the well-being of its citizens.
we should also increase the measures to stop deforestation by using incentives from the green climate fund.
other priority areas should be energy efficiency and technology transfer.
- i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the durban climate change conference.
we believe that the eu must take the lead and develop its own ambitious climate policy to reduce climate change, to demonstrate the benefits of such a policy and to encourage other countries to do the same.
we call on the eu to define and create a separate budget line for climate finance to ensure that this funding is truly new and additional.
i would stress that energy saving creates jobs and financial savings, increases energy security, competitiveness and contributes to reducing polluting emissions.
some 2 billion people around the globe still lack access to affordable, sustainable energy.
i stress the need to address energy poverty in line with climate change policy objectives.
the development and application of innovative technologies are essential in the fight against climate change.
to convince eu partners around the world that emission reductions are possible without a loss of competitiveness and jobs, i call for an international commitment to increase investment in research and development in innovative technologies for energy-intensive industrial sectors.
i also welcome the considerable contribution of aid to sustainable development in the areas of health, education, gender equality and biodiversity.
it would be unproductive to reduce these transatlantic relations to just the economic dimension; both the eu and us are engaged in management processes such as globalisation and sustainable development, combating the effects of climate change, maintaining global stability and promoting democratisation all over the world.
we also need to make substantial efforts to finally find a sustainable solution to the palestinian issue.
do we really think we can afford to disregard our nuclear needs in energy consumption, in medical applications and in nuclear safety with the managed decommissioning and dismantling of nuclear power stations for the decades to come?
unfortunately, contrary to what some populists would have us believe, in the case of nuclear energy you cannot decide to just switch off the power and hope that all related problems magically disappear.
i welcome the proposal for a council decision on the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training activities and i congratulate the rapporteur, mr březina.
the general objectives of the 2012-13 framework programme place particular emphasis on nuclear safety, improving nuclear waste management, safety and radiation protection and contribute to the creation of the innovation union and the construction of the european research area.
it is essential to maintain expertise in the union in radiation protection and dismantling of nuclear installations, as nuclear energy will play a key role in the union's energy mix, including in decommissioning and long-term waste management.
in decommissioning obsolete systems, particular attention should be paid to long-lived nuclear waste.
i would first like to congratulate mr březina on this very technical and important report for europe at a time when the future of nuclear energy is closely linked to the guarantees we can give to citizens that this energy is safe for all citizens, whether their country has such plants or not.
last but not least, it is important to find the most appropriate solutions for the safest possible management of long-lived radioactive waste, and here research has a key role to play, which is why the union must provide the necessary funding.
nuclear energy will play a strategic role in europe's energy mix for at least another half century.
in this context, the creation of a new high-technology sector in the field of fusion energy is essential.
europe needs secure, sustainable, green and viable energy.
ensuring long-term waste management solutions is of utmost importance.
nuclear energy, as many people mentioned, is always a source of political debate, but we must not forget that the proposal we are discussing today is for funding research to enhance the future of nuclear safety in europe, to improve the management of nuclear waste, also mentioned by a lot of members, to make progress in the whole area of radiation protection, and to create the human capital needed by the nuclear sector.
the commission will continue to strengthen the role of the jrc to provide in-house expertise in support of the union’s policies in the areas of nuclear safety and security, environmental protection and decommissioning.
i only hope that the georgian authorities will do everything in their power to carry out all the necessary reforms that will allow the development of an environment conducive to the application of european standards in the field of the social market economy, in the field of education, for a better integration of national minorities, but also to implement the reforms necessary for the liberalization of the economy.
commissioner, the blue paper 'an integrated maritime policy for the european union' was adopted in october 2007. the european union's integrated maritime policy ensures greater coherence between the measures taken under the different policies affecting maritime and coastal areas and the need to use the resources of these ecosystems in a way that does not harm the environment.
i stress the importance of research, development and promotion of green technologies, renewable marine energy sources and navigation.
with the accession of romania and bulgaria, the european union is becoming a major player in the black sea region, a region of geostrategic importance for energy security and diversification of the european union's energy supply routes.
promoting trade and avoiding protectionist tendencies are important elements in ensuring the exit from the crisis and the sustainable recovery of economies.
− i consider it important and necessary to develop an integrated maritime policy at european level so that europe's maritime, coastal and outermost areas benefit from sound economic development, ecological protection and environmental protection.
we support encouraging research, development and promotion of green technologies, marine renewable energy sources, and green shipping, as well as supporting measures to develop and promote a strategy for coastal, maritime and island tourism.
i voted for the amendment which calls for funding for various objectives to include: integrated maritime governance and activities related to sea basins, the tools for developing an integrated maritime policy, promoting the international dimension of the integrated maritime policy and the visibility of europe's maritime profile, defining the limits of sustainability with regard to maritime activities through the adoption of the marine strategy framework directive, as well as sustainable economic growth, job creation and innovation.
the gradual phase-out of nuclear energy by some eu countries demonstrates the persisting concerns in this regard and the eu's decision to put the safety of its citizens first.
accident prevention, waste management and the safety of nuclear fission are challenges that the eu must address as adequately and as quickly as possible in the context of the development of the nuclear industries market and the rapid rise of emerging economies.
− i voted in favour of this report because the proposals for the euratom framework programme are directly linked to the objectives of the europe 2020 and energy 2020 strategies.
i support the contribution of the programme to the flagship initiative 'an innovation union' by supporting pre-commercial research and facilitating the technology transfer process between academia and business, and to the flagship initiative 'a resource efficient europe' by significantly improving the overall sustainability of nuclear energy.
i believe that by emphasising training in all its activities, by boosting competitiveness in the current nuclear sector and by creating a new high-technology sector, that of fusion energy, the euratom programme will lead to growth and new job creation in a wide range of disciplines.
last but not least, euratom co-financed research plays an important role in enhancing the safety, resource efficiency and cost-effectiveness of nuclear fission and other industrial and medical uses of radiation, and some of the research projects are key elements in the recently launched european sustainable nuclear energy industrial initiative (esnii).
− i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision on the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training activities (2012-2013).
the euratom framework programme 2012-2013 covers research activities in the field of nuclear energy (fusion and fusion) and radiation protection, and sets out the instruments for financing and the related budget for direct and indirect actions for research and development activities in this field.
nuclear energy will continue to play a strategic role in the union's energy mix and will contribute to the union's objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, increasing energy security and diversifying the eu's energy supply.
the use of nuclear energy must be subject to strict commitments to the responsible use of nuclear energy, taking into account safety and physical and radiological protection.
i believe that the objective of the european sustainable nuclear energy industrial initiative (esnii), which is to achieve by 2035-2040 a fourth generation of fast neutron reactors with a closed fuel cycle, can contribute to diversifying the eu's energy supply sources and to ensuring the safe use of nuclear energy in the future.
− i voted for the report on the eu's role in combating illegal fishing worldwide because the commission and the member states need to cooperate to establish a european coast guard to increase monitoring and inspection capacity and effectively combat the dangers at sea, such as terrorism, piracy, illegal fishing, trafficking or even marine pollution.
in this context, measures to increase energy efficiency, complete the internal energy market and develop energy infrastructure are becoming extremely important for energy security and the balance of the eu's trade balance.
croatia is responsible, together with bavaria, for implementing priority 6 on biodiversity conservation and, together with baden-württemberg, for coordinating priority 8 - business competitiveness.
however, crucial challenges remain to be properly addressed in order to ensure the sustainability of the reforms introduced by the croatian authorities during the accession process in the fields of the judiciary, anti-corruption and confiscation of illegally or unjustified gained assets.
in fact, if you read this 2012 growth report carefully, there is both a comparative part of it between member states and a part at the level of the union, which looks very closely at what measures have been recommended to the member states and also what measures all member states should take to implement the common european decisions, for example, in the area of the services directive or equally in the area of energy and trade policy.
the enhanced framework for economic governance should be based on different interlinked policies aimed at sustainable growth and jobs that are coherent with each other, in particular a union strategy for growth and jobs.
for example, making financial aid conditional on meeting environmental requirements.
− i voted in favour of this report because i strongly believe that access to education for young people is the most important tool for developing society and democracy in a sustainable way.
early school leaving is rooted in a number of causes specific to each environment, which are influenced by the characteristics of the education system in the member states.
for example, counselling offered to both pupils and parents, given the influence of the family environment on the educational and social path of the pupil.
it is important that economic recovery is accompanied by environmental modernisation, including through improved energy efficiency, strengthened policies on renewable energy sources and harmonised land-use planning and energy policies.
i believe it is important that both the commission and the council ensure that sustainable and inclusive growth, linked to employment and job creation, is at the heart of all policy proposals made in the context of the european semester.
− customs services have a key role to play in ensuring safety and security, protecting consumers and the environment, strengthening the fight against fraud and corruption and enforcing intellectual property rights.
they argue that customs services have a key role to play in ensuring safety and security, consumer and environmental protection, as well as in strengthening the fight against fraud and corruption and enforcing intellectual property rights.
− i voted in favour of the report on the modernisation of customs services, as these services have a key role to play in ensuring safety and security, consumer and environmental protection, ensuring full revenue collection, strengthening the fight against fraud and corruption and enforcing intellectual property rights.
the proposal to amend the 2006 interinstitutional agreement to respond to the additional funding needs of the iter project is in line with the council decision on the european atomic energy community framework programme for nuclear research and training 2012-2013, which we voted on at the previous plenary session.
thus, on the basis of the knowledge base provided by the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy, the iter experimental fusion reactor under construction at cadarache in france can prepare the next generation of experimental fusion reactors and europe can become a world leader in the construction of experimental fusion reactors.
ways must be found to produce clean energy on a large scale, thus meeting the world's growing needs.
thermonuclear fusion is one solution, being a virtually inexhaustible, safe, and carbon-free source of energy.
at the same time, a stable and attractive environment for european investors abroad must be created.
on the energy front, the european council called for a swift agreement on the energy efficiency proposal and for the comprehensive nuclear safety review to be given priority.
given the importance of the iter project for the eu's energy future, we support securing the additional commitment appropriations needed for the 2012-13 period.
the eu's main tool for dealing with these disasters is the eusf, which complements member states' budgets for emergency measures such as the immediate restoration of infrastructure and equipment in the fields of energy, drinking water, wastewater, transport, telecommunications, health and education.
we call on the commission to pursue a cross-sectoral, comprehensive and sustainable strategy on raw materials, so that restrictions and duties on raw materials exports applied by some countries do not affect global economic development and the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy objectives.
the european union is committed to the development of the union's energy sector and to the promotion of the union's energy sector.
this region is of great importance in the european union's external energy strategy.
supporting civil society, ethnic and religious minorities, cross-border projects, developing bilateral and multilateral economic partnerships, launching major energy projects, and resolving conflicts in the region are all elements that can bring concrete benefits to citizens and have the potential to improve the political climate.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr perello, and all the members of the committee on the environment for their work and commitment in reaching this agreement at first reading.
i believe that these measures to limit the phosphorus content of detergent must necessarily be linked to improved waste water treatment, but also to improved agricultural techniques - agriculture is also a source of phosphorus for surface waters.
however, i believe that more investment is needed in identifying alternatives to phosphates and other phosphorus compounds in detergents to better achieve our environmental and public health objectives.
there is also a need for a consistent and coherent energy dialogue with russia.
the new directive will give third country producers the opportunity to improve product quality through more sustainable production processes.
− we have had many discussions in the environment committee over the last few years about the labelling of food and drink.
− i voted for the report by my colleague newton dunn because ensuring water quality is an essential component of a healthy environment.
the long-term development of technologies for the recovery of phosphorus from waste water is also needed.
in this respect, mentions of recycling and environmental risks will increase public awareness in this area.
those used in dishwashers, there must be a balance between the substances used in detergents to ensure their effectiveness and the impact of those substances on the environment.
it is clear that limiting the phosphate content has the effect of encouraging innovation and the introduction of detergents that are equally efficient but have a lower environmental impact.
another function of the protocol is to form a framework for a general partnership between the two parties, in which to develop a sustainable fisheries policy.
this would eliminate many parallels, avoid waste of resources and allow for better use of production capacities.
promoting a european defence technological and industrial base can create sustainable jobs for european citizens in the eu defence industries.
the eu needs to show strong internal solidarity in negotiating an agreement with russia, since the security of the entire union's energy supply depends on it.
let us not forget energy cooperation, which must be a central pillar of the negotiations between the two partners.
the european union is the largest consumer of russian energy, and russia is the largest supplier of energy to the european union.
security of energy supply is one of the eu's biggest challenges and one of the main areas of cooperation between the eu and russia.
i stress the importance of energy cooperation, as it is an opportunity to deepen economic and trade cooperation in an open and transparent market, taking into account the eu's policy of diversifying transport channels and energy suppliers.
the principle of transparency must underpin this cooperation, together with equal access to markets, infrastructure and investment, and a legally binding framework to guarantee the reliable and regular supply of energy to all eu member states, based on equal standards.
we call on the council and the commission to ensure that the new eu-russia partnership agreement includes the principles of the energy charter treaty and the protocol on transit annexed thereto.
the eu must encourage the european aspirations of some of its non-eu partners and stimulate their commitment to building a sustainable democracy.
i also believe that we must recognise the european aspirations of partners who have committed themselves to building a sustainable democracy and to ensuring a permanent dialogue to encourage all the reforms that are being undertaken, taking account of the level of economic development and the specific characteristics of each partner country.
i consider it essential to ask the commission to continue developing the eu black sea strategy, given its importance in the eu's external energy strategy, due to its geostrategic role which gives it a significant potential for energy security and diversification of supply.
the report focuses on strengthening democracy and partnership with societies, sustainable economic and social development, association agreements, sectoral cooperation, mobility and the regional dimension, and not least on the financing of the european neighbourhood policy.
given the trade and energy security potential of central asia, as well as the common interest of the central asian countries with that of the european union in diversifying export routes and cooperating on energy and environmental sustainability, i support the need to develop strategies that are linked to the union's programmes and strategies in the caucasus and black sea region.
this project will contribute to the energy security of the european union.
this is why i support the establishment of long-term supply agreements that enshrine the principles of environmental sustainability, and the extractive industries transparency initiative, which seeks to strengthen governance by improving transparency and accountability in the extractive industries.
while those in high-skilled positions enjoy a work environment that safeguards the health and safety of its employees, those in low-skilled and low-paying positions are subject to increased vulnerability as a result of illness, accidents and other work-related traumas.
however, a very important aspect to be emphasised is the need for better promotion of the 'smart energy' programme in the new member states as well.
better information on existing projects and how to access funds would also lead to greater cohesion at european level and avoid widening the current gaps in sustainable development.
smart energy in europe provides the basis for sustainable development and smart use of resources in the fields of renewable energy, transport, energy efficiency of buildings and industrial consumption.
the policy areas are the pieces of the puzzle we need to shape the eu's future sustainable landscape.
reducing emissions and meeting the ambitious targets proposed by the eu can be achieved through initiatives at local and regional level.
clean vehicle portals, energy solutions for sustainable buildings, urban mobility measures or 'manage energy' programmes are concrete actions that promote urban sustainability and energy efficiency.
the commission and eib financial energy instruments can make an effective contribution to the implementation of programmes promoting sustainability.
we call for the 'intelligent energy europe' programme to be continued in the next financial perspective.
the 'intelligent energy europe' programme is encouraging the adoption of smart energy solutions.
over 250 projects have been carried out in sectors such as transport, industry, energy services, energy efficiency of buildings, equipment, to increase energy efficiency alone.
i regard the 'eu for energy' initiative, funded by the 'intelligent energy europe' programme, as a particularly positive initiative aimed at making europe more competitive.
we support, commissioner, the continuation of the intelligent energy europe programme in the future financial framework.
the europe 2020 strategy is one of the policy instruments through which the european authorities have taken responsibility for reforming the energy system and stimulating the uptake of energy from renewable sources.
at the same time, european authorities need to take into account the diversity of national economies and european regions, and it is important that the development of energy programmes (including diversification of sources of supply) and the promotion of renewable energy production also take into account the imperatives of the local context.
last but not least, european authorities must bear in mind that, unlike in other areas where the cost of investments or purchases to be made is lower, the development of energy programmes requires considerable effort.
it is equally important for the development of the european union that the community executive responds by its actions to the question of financing the 'smart energy for europe' programme.
the european 'smart energy' programme has been a key element in the diversification of the european union's energy sources.
its continuation is vital for the future of european energy security.
romania has taken part in numerous projects financed through this programme, particularly in the field of renewable energies.
i would also like to mention the 'ambassadors for energy management' partnership.
resources are scarcer in the public coffers and the need to foster those activities with a future, those activities that must pull our economies and move towards a model of sustainable, inclusive growth, compatible with our environmental goals, is key.
as regards the energy package, i encourage the commission to be very careful as most member states are behind in implementing the third energy package.
from the union's perspective, economic relations offer opportunities for diversifying sources of supply of energy and raw materials.
i also stress the importance of launching other projects to link up energy and transport networks.
for example, sustainable solutions are needed to reduce psychosocial risks.
competition should be encouraged, in particular in the energy, credit rating agencies and banking sectors.
emsa has concluded a number of standby oil spill response vessel contracts with private operators who will switch from their normal activity to pollution response in the event of an emergency.
the commission proposal states that these vessels could also be used to combat pollution from other sources, including oil platforms.
− the european union and the member states are making a major effort to prevent the effects of accidental pollution, especially in the case of marine pollution from oil platforms or tankers, and the proposal to establish a joint european coast guard service is all the more appropriate in such situations, which require rapid intervention and effective coordination of response actions.
− emsa, the agency set up in 2003 in the wake of the pollution caused by the tanker 'erika', is responsible for ensuring a high, uniform and effective level of maritime safety and prevention of pollution from ships in the eu.
the regulation proposed by the commission refers to the fact that the agency's expertise in this area should be used to the full and its role in providing support and assistance to the bodies or entities concerned (the commission and the member states) in preventing pollution from oil installations should be strengthened.
− the proposed regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 establishing a european maritime safety agency (emsa) is an opportunity to strengthen the existing functions of emsa to boost environmental protection objectives and accident response capacity in eu waters.
initially, they focused on hydrocarbon pollution.
since 2007, however, the agency has also been active in the field of marine pollution caused by dangerous and harmful substances (e.g.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 establishing a european maritime safety agency (emsa), as the purpose of extending the powers of the emsa is to ensure a high, uniform and effective level of maritime safety and the prevention of pollution from ships.
− a health report on a health measure, which will bring more coherence to infrastructure development projects across the union, generate a more rational allocation of resources and put an end to waste, encourage the use of new technologies in the field, including for pollution reduction.
− the creation of a single european transport area as a goal of the future european transport policy is directly linked to regional, environmental, economic, social, and employment policy.
i strongly support increased wise (using the criterion of european-value-added) investment in transport as a precondition for sustainable growth and jobs for the whole of the eu, while helping to fight our way out of the crisis.
we need clear and ambitious imperative targets, to be realised by the member states / the commission in both the medium and long run, for example: the commission has to draw up legal rules to reduce co2 and other greenhouse gas emissions by 20% compared to the 1990 reference figures and to set targets for the different modes of transport and to specify deadlines for commission proposals on issues including: the european railway agency (to be expected by 2012), social and working conditions and the ‘blue belt’ (both 2013), the internalisation of external costs for all transport modes (2014) and urban mobility (2015).
the european union should act more boldly, especially in the current economic climate.
i note with satisfaction the interest shown in supporting actions aimed at the sustainable development of the economies of these countries, which have suffered dramatically since the collapse of the former ussr.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on the state of play of the eu strategy for central asia as this region is of major importance to the union in terms of its trade potential and energy security and as the region has been affected by the recent global financial and economic crisis.
i stress the importance of energy in relations with the countries of central asia, as it is a major source of revenue for these countries, as well as a potential source of energy security for the eu.
the eu and the countries of central asia share a common interest in diversifying export routes and cooperating on energy and environmental sustainability.
i would stress that the lack of energy (e.g.
for heating and electricity) is making the situation worse for the poor in the central asian countries and the eu, in line with its climate change commitments, should step up its assistance in the region to develop a sustainable energy policy, including on the basis of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources.