or i would prefer that we should take the welfare of the family and its needs into account with the same energy and tenacity in all european policies.
agriculture is of great importance, especially in less-favoured areas, and therefore incentives should be adopted to promote rural agriculture, attract more young people to agriculture and help reduce regional disparities and ensure sustainable development.
i am sure that the saa will bring concrete economic and trade benefits for the country in areas such as environment, energy, transport and many others.
one of these is climate change, which unfortunately can cause unpredictable food shortages and thus jeopardize the ability of the world's growing population to meet the needs of over 9 billion people by 2050. the cap must clearly respond to the challenges posed by food security, climate change and the economic crisis.
climate change is increasing the number of natural disasters, reducing the potential for exploiting large areas of land, thus threatening food security.
the agricultural sector is a prime example of this, where the european union and individual countries are entering this environment through various subsidies and aids, thereby significantly distorting the competitive environment.
another area where the competitive environment will need to be fundamentally adjusted and improved is transport.
in any case, the report is stimulating and good, and it will be important that it is also used effectively to improve the competitive environment in the european union.
for example, in the energy sector, there are also raw material markets that need to be made more transparent.
similarly, competition is not fully ensured in all segments of the energy sector.
the implementation of the second internal market package and the third energy package is therefore urgent.
the new strategy should serve to ensure peace, stability and prosperity in the black sea region and guarantee the energy security of the union.
waste electrical equipment is one of the fastest growing waste streams in the eu.
we must do everything we can to recycle them in a professional manner so that we can not only prevent environmental and health damage but also reduce the loss of raw materials.
current impact assessments show that 85% of the e-waste generated is collected, but only 33% of it is professionally processed in accordance with the requirements of the directive.
unfortunately, there is a high level of illegal waste shipments outside the eu, and it is important that the new directive is able to prevent this.
the waste must be collected selectively, so that it can be kept within a member state and sent for recycling.
unfortunately, our experience so far has shown that the current directive has not been interpreted in the same way by the member states, and i would therefore like to propose that from now on the classification into individual categories should not be the criterion, but that the directive should cover basically all electrical and electronic waste.
i think the legislation is particularly important for the newest countries, as they are still lagging behind in the area of separate waste collection.
the amendment of the e-waste directive was the subject of extensive comment in the relevant committees of the european parliament.
the amendments tabled by meps have gradually modified the text prepared by the commission, and the current compromise text takes the issue of e-waste collection further forward.
of the amendments, i find the wording of article 47 proposed by the environment committee particularly useful, as it will allow the financial obligations of industry to be orientated towards the development of an e-waste collection system rather than towards the implementation of penalties in the event that the collection targets set are not achieved.
this can be beneficial and useful especially in countries that do not yet have a sufficient collection infrastructure for e-waste.
the agreement on trade in bananas will also have a significant impact on other developing countries focused on banana exports, which will need assistance to adapt to the significant changes in the competitive environment on the world market.
the directive will enable electrical equipment manufacturers to provide purchasers with information on the cost of collecting, treating and disposing of waste in an environmentally sound manner when purchasing products.
it is important that the financial obligations of industry focus on the development of an efficient e-waste collection system, rather than on the payment of penalties in case of failure to achieve the set collection targets, unless the country has a sufficiently developed waste collection infrastructure.
waste electrical and electronic equipment is growing rapidly in the european union and its inefficient disposal and unskilled collection pose a serious problem for the environment and human health, as well as a waste of materials and resources that are not unlimited.
in the light of new knowledge gained during the application of the waste electrical and electronic equipment directive, it appears necessary to adapt appropriately certain parts of that legislation which have so far caused considerable practical application problems.
the waste crisis in the campania region has recently caused serious problems in italy.
therefore, the eu legislation on waste management in the region needs to be strictly enforced.
the italian authorities must ensure that all necessary measures are taken for the proper collection, separation and treatment of waste.
but we can only achieve a sustainable solution to their problems if we actively involve citizens in the process.
one of them is the use of the danube water flow for efficient and ecological transport of goods.
in my view, therefore, in order to revive and boost economic growth in the region, it is necessary to review the green water projects already in place, which will not only reduce the risks and consequences of flooding, but also improve the river's navigability and enable the production of cheap, clean electricity from renewable sources.
i know that, for example, the river port on the danube or in vienna or in bratislava, after modernisation, will be a very important contribution to the theme of multimodal transport, so that not everything is transported by trucks, which of course degrades the environment.
environmental issues, the cleanliness of groundwater, but also the prevention of natural and ecological disasters, are all areas which must also be incorporated in a reasonable way.
we can take a very good example from the baltic states' macro-region and put into practice a lot of positive impulses based on their experience, especially in environmental issues.
the blood that until recently was considered biological waste.
we need to redefine the future of young people and the elderly to ensure sustainable, secure and adequate pension flows.
we need to build a system that is sustainable and provides pensions in the light of the situation in the member states.
i do not want to question the good intentions of our hungarian friends to modernise the rules of the media environment, but the current debate confirms that perhaps some provisions of the new law should have been formulated more sensitively.
it is clear that strict compliance with labour, technical and environmental standards as well as provisions to protect healthy competition must be ensured by both parties.
financial instruments must serve the economy, help agricultural production to cope with severe crises and climate events, and therefore speculation must not be allowed to jeopardise agricultural production.
such a waste of public funds, ladies and gentlemen, can only be called a disregard for reality.
the solution to women's poverty is not just violent intervention in the family environment.
for example, the relationship between energy and industrial policy.
energy supply is essential and new and growing markets are represented by renewable energy sources, which can thus lead to the creation of new jobs.
the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's policy on the environment and sustainable development.
a strong competitive environment is emerging in which we will have to do more and more to maintain meaningful employment for our citizens.
the first is the huge differences in the legal environment governing the way business is conducted, authorised, resolved or enforced, which hamper the wider opening up of businesses across the borders of member states' jurisdictions.
the best experience with its extraction is in north america, where extraction from non-traditional sources accounted for up to 42% of total production in 2007. the international energy agency estimates that europe could also have up to 991 billion cubic metres of unconventional gas reserves.
the licences are also held by major global energy companies.
industrial policy, as part of economic policy, must aim at sustainable growth, increased employment and a better quality of life for all europeans.
knowing the risks of human activities, especially business activities that threaten the environment, we can already reduce the risk of a possible disaster from any risky activity by taking good regulatory measures.
what i would like to stress is that nuclear power plants in europe are exposed to completely different environmental factors than in japan.
our facilities are prepared for the effects that may come, and nuclear power may be an integral part of our energy supply in the future.
not because it hasn't been implemented yet, but because we're curious about how they're going to calculate emissions.
the so-called fixed method, which is based on an eu average, or the so-called hybrid method, which calculates emissions from the place and time of extraction.
so producers that work with russian oil would actually have to reduce their ghg emissions by 12%, because the pollution is already high at the site of production.
it is up to countries to act responsibly to increase employment, reduce the number of people who leave school early, achieve the targets for young people entering higher education, reduce the number of people at risk of poverty or protect our climate.
inspectors from the international atomic energy agency assessed the readiness of the nuclear power plant in jaslovské bohunicia for more than thirty years of safe operation after the completion of extensive modernization.
our clear priority should be to restore employment and sustainable economic growth.
for example, under political pressure from the european union, slovakia decommissioned two fully reconstructed units of the jaslovská bohunice nuclear power plant in 2006, 2008. according to the international atomic energy agency, they met all safety criteria.
the power cut may also have a direct impact on the energy supply of the country concerned and of the surrounding member states.
in order to address the negative consequences, the development of alternative, low-carbon and competitive energy sources should be promoted.
but i know that the general european public sees this as a gross waste of taxpayers' money.
to avoid unnecessary waste of public resources, a number of points need to be focused on.
a transparent and secure environment for the operation and funding of european political parties is a desirable and welcome step towards citizens of the member states of the european union.
in addition to assessing the current situation, ms giannakou also decided to make a number of proposals to improve the current legal environment.
the drive to create a single market for businesses and growth is confronted with many administrative obstacles, which are a natural consequence of the fact that the business environment in the member states has developed separately at different stages and under different conditions.
the effort to synchronise the business environment of all 27 member states seems to me to be a very challenging ambition.
in particular, it must be borne in mind that the citizen must be at the very heart of the initiative, whether from the point of view of consumer rights, communication strategies or copyright, improving the environment for cross-border operations of smes, which are the backbone of every economy.
strengthening democracy in the european union requires a continuous effort to enhance a fair and transparent environment for the functioning and funding of political parties at european level.
commissioner, i am convinced that the european public expects us to have an open and honest dialogue today on the future of european energy policy, including the definition of new safety limits for all energy installations in europe.
some reservations can still be made regarding the independence of the judiciary, the fight against corruption and freedom of expression in the media, which has a negative impact on the business environment and the inflow of foreign capital.
the fukushima disaster has raised legitimate public concerns about the use of nuclear energy, and it is therefore appropriate to give serious thought to the current situation in the eu and take decisive action to increase safety, including safety, transparency in the operation of nuclear power plants, and the protection of human health.
whether we like it or not, it is not possible today, even with the best of intentions, to imagine a functioning competitive energy market without nuclear energy contributing to a balanced energy mix.
the union and the member states have an obligation to develop an energy policy which ensures the maintenance of the sovereignty, political independence and economic security of each state.
the tools to achieve this goal include, in addition to an appropriate energy mix, an appropriate level of production capacity, a balance between supply and demand, a reduction in the energy intensity of the economy, and so on.
i am not afraid to stress that nuclear energy is an important source of electricity production because it contributes to greater energy security, especially for countries with limited solid fuel resources.
however, a number of problems remain: increasing dependence on imports of goods, poverty, low levels of human capital and vulnerability to climate change and natural disasters.
current studies of the impacts of climate change on forests in europe indicate a wide range of specific regional responses of forest ecosystems.
the ability to cope with the nature and scale of the expected problems depends on the natural conditions of the region for example, mountain areas are exposed to different problems than lowland areas , on the physiological sensitivity of forest vegetation and the ready adaptation potential of individual ecosystems, on the expected intensity of climate change for central and eastern europe, for example, projected change one and a half times stronger than the global average, and on the technical capabilities of the forestry sector to implement adaptation measures, for example by changing the timber composition in favour of resistant species.
− on february 2010, in the presence and with the participation of the european union, greece, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and albania signed the agreement on the protection and sustainable development of the prespa park area.
the aim of this agreement is to ensure the protection of prespa park area and also a comprehensive ecosystem protection.
not only do lakes and their surroundings have ecological importance, but also this area is naturally unique due to its geomorphological, ecological, biodiversity and cultural significance.
− in november 2009, the fao conference approved the agreement on port state measures to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing that may help to minimize this type of fishing and ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable use of living marine resources and marine ecosystems, as well.
i am very pleased that the european parliament is dealing with this issue of nuclear safety today, that is the key word, but the other key word is that without nuclear energy we cannot, unfortunately, do anything at all.
it's a quarter to midnight and we're talking about a serious matter: the export of toxic waste to developing countries.
it's scandalous that european countries in this modern age are doing what we saw in the oscar-winning movie by erin brockovich, which starred julia roberts, and where we saw that only in california can something like this happen, that factories export toxic waste and people then get seriously ill from it, they can even die.
it is very sad that the member states of the european union are exporting their toxic waste to african countries which have little ability to defend themselves against it, and there are toxic elements such as lead, cadmium, mercury, asbestos and others, and i think it is good that the commission wants to continue to work on this.
examples such as the copenhagen climate change summit, the united nations general assembly resolution on enhancement of participation rights – congratulations to baroness ashton – or eu participation in the international monetary fund show the necessity not only of addressing these issues, but also of finding a common strategy.
madam high representative, i think that it is necessary to establish an institutionalised dialogue on key strategic issues such as energy policy, stability in the western balkans and the caucasus regions, iran’s nuclear dossier or the democratic awakening under way in the middle east.
among the common policies with an impact on forest protection are environmental policy, energy, industry and trade policies, as well as policy coherence, including regional policy and the solidarity fund.
it has achieved a balanced approach to the most pressing issues concerning the organisation and activities of the european external action service (eeas) and to key issues for the common foreign and security policy (cfsp), such as promotion of the values of democracy, human rights and the rule of law, promotion of gender equality and energy security, the situation in iran and in afghanistan, the eu response to the democratic changes in the southern mediterranean region, and relations with major players such as russia, china, japan and india.
it appears that our efforts to promote a more favourable legislative environment for smes have not yet been sufficiently reflected in the business environment itself.
for example, the areas of public health and environmental protection are those most in need of innovation.
with an uncertain entrepreneurial environment, an unfavourable legal framework, the creative mood of citizens can be taken away.
in this respect, i very much welcome the commission's proposal for european environmental economic accounts.
their alternative should not be to assess the situation with regard to quality of life and the environment on the basis of impressions.
on the contrary, better data and a better methodology for collecting and aggregating them are needed to serve us better - for example, to assess the environmental impact of policies and economic activities.
member states should therefore ensure that vocational education and training is better adapted to labour market needs and that vocational education and training provides workers with the skills needed to fill the new sustainable jobs that will emerge in the sustainable economy of the future.
high-quality vocational education and training makes a fundamental contribution to sustainable development.
an important prerequisite for a successful professional career is the opportunity to study in an international environment, which promotes the acquisition of multilingual skills and increases competitiveness.
this should improve the overall coherence of the legislative environment in this area.
moreover, the relevant criteria for air service agreements with third countries should include the possibility of balanced access to markets and investment opportunities, as well as fair competition in the area of state subsidies and environmental and social standards.
these objectives have been confirmed by the council's opinion and it is now desirable for the commission to take steps leading to sustainable transport development, interoperability, a harmonised charging system and further internalisation of external costs.
in writing − environmental economic accounts should contribute to policy evaluation by providing data on the environmental effects of economic activities in particular.
such information can be very important for environmental policy decisions.
recycling and waste prevention, air pollution and climate change, and sustainable consumption and production could be monitored much more effectively if high-quality data on the interaction between environmental and economic factors were available.
moreover, the introduction of a common framework for the collection, processing, transmission and evaluation of european environmental economic accounts in this area would facilitate the political evaluation of european environmental policy.
whether we look at the current challenges and at the ambitions of the eu and its regions from a regional or even a global perspective, the most pressing issues remain energy shortages, slowing economic growth and unemployment.
the development and innovation of europe's energy infrastructure must therefore remain a priority area requiring a significant increase in funding.
in my view, a return to coal burning is not, in the present ecological context, the solution for the future and the creation of a fully-fledged trans-european transport network.
in writing, the eu began negotiations on a comprehensive economic trade agreement with canada in 2009. the potential agreement covers a wide range of issues: trade in goods and services, intellectual property rights, public procurement, regulatory cooperation, investment, temporary migration, competition policy, labour and environmental standards.
the possible further simplification and adaptation to new challenges, such as climate change, as well as the right place for the external dimension of eu internal policies are important aspects to consider.
however, it is not a measure of environmental sustainability or social inclusion.
because only after we have evaluated them will we see what the real state of nuclear energy in europe is.
− the resolution deals with the preparations for the eu-russia summit to be held in nizhny novgorod on 9 and 10 june 2011. the summit will focus on common challenges such as the economic and financial crisis, accession to the wto, energy and energy security issues, the long-term drive for visa-free travel between the eu and russia, and other international and regional issues.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the management of radioactive waste is rightly closely followed by the general public and it is therefore good that the european commission has decided to legislate comprehensively on this issue by clearly defining the duties and responsibilities of all the actors involved in this procedure.
the important open question, in my view, is to ensure that sufficient financial resources are allocated to cover the costs necessary for decommissioning nuclear reactors and the subsequent management of the radioactive waste generated.
the proposed system of monitoring the amount of financial reserves by an independent body can, if well organised, create the assumption that a nuclear installation will accumulate sufficient resources during its operation to also refinance its ecological liquidation, and this should be our aim.
i am very pleased that we are moving forward in the field of spent fuel and radioactive waste management, setting out specific requirements to ensure that member states establish a national regulatory and organisational framework and develop effective national programmes from its establishment to its storage.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not only a matter of environmental protection, but also of the protection of the environment.
other radioactive waste is generated throughout the european union, whether it is isotopes used for medical, industrial, agricultural, research or even educational purposes.
however, the ultimate responsibility for spent fuel and radioactive waste lies with the member states.
we need continued political commitment to the long-term management of spent fuel and radioactive waste in a way that can be carried out with the highest safety standards.
they should also establish a system defining the powers and responsibilities of the competent public bodies for the management of radioactive waste.
i would like to draw attention to the opinion of the committee on industry, which points out in point 3 that the current provisions of the european commission's climate change policy are leading to a shift of production away from europe, and i fear that the next increase in carbon dioxide emission prices could further accentuate this trend.
at the same time, it points out that the current reduction in emissions in europe cannot be interpreted as a signal that the european union is on track to meet its emissions reduction target.
i am therefore convinced that the way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is through a more rigorous promotion of innovation in new green technologies, so that we do not address the need to protect the atmosphere with administrative and financial instruments alone, but rather by supporting research and the application of new technologies to real life.
striking economic, social and environmental disparities between the european regions clearly still exist.
the higher absorption rates for environmental programmes under the european territorial cooperation objective show the added value of cross-border and interregional cooperation – which should therefore be encouraged in future.
in this context, strategic reporting, as a new instrument, increases accountability in delivering policy objectives and shows that cohesion policy should address all european regions and societal challenges in order to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the whole eu.
well-financed cohesion policy should be closer to eu citizens and should continue to address all european union regions and societal challenges, both helping the poorer to catch up and delivering smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the whole european union.
in particular, the experience of the last two years has confirmed that achieving strong competitiveness, sustainable economic growth and job availability requires sustainable public deficit and debt levels, reforms to address macroeconomic imbalances and a decisive eu strategy for growth and jobs.
the agreement provides for a qualitative improvement in the multiannual sectoral programme to promote responsible and sustainable fishing in seychelles' waters and also includes a suspension clause in the protocol, which allows the agreement to be suspended if one of the parties proves that there has been a violation of human rights.
the agreement contributes significantly to the stabilisation of the european market, the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the rational use of fishery resources in the seychelles' fishing zone.
− the negotiation and conclusion of fisheries partnership agreements responds to the general objective of preserving and protecting the activities of the european union fishing fleet, including the fishing fleet in remote areas, and developing relations in the spirit of partnership and cooperation with third countries in order to enhance the sustainable use of fisheries resources outside eu waters, taking into account environmental, social and economic issues.
cohesion policy is proving to be important as it makes a significant contribution to improving the socio-economic environment.
parliament intends to improve the commission's proposals in order to create a strong and coherent framework for the coming decades, guaranteeing the compatibility of fiscal discipline with the objectives of economic growth and employment in the union and in all member states, since only the fulfilment of this condition will ensure the stability and sustainability of the union and the euro.
it is desirable to improve the framework for economic governance and thus contribute to sustainable and balanced growth in the union as a whole.
it is essential to strengthen the framework of economic and monetary union in order to consolidate macroeconomic stability and the sustainability of public finances, which are prerequisites for sustained performance and employment growth.
the framework for economic and monetary union should therefore also be urgently strengthened in order to anchor macroeconomic stability and the sustainability of public finances.
the coordination of the economic policies of the member states within the european union should include, in particular, the maintenance of a sustainable balance of payments and the need for public investment.
the europe 2020 strategy sets out an ambitious and comprehensive strategy to ensure smart, sustainable and inclusive growth of the european union economy.
− the directive in question concerns emissions from agricultural tractors and aims to amend directive 2000/25/ec by a quantitative amendment.
for each type of tractor, the directive sets a maximum emission level based on engine power and provides for a gradual reduction of emissions in several stages.
it takes account of environmental objectives that the eu has already agreed to.
if the proposed amendment were not adopted, paradoxically we would end up with the exact opposite result, as many farmers could choose to keep their old polluting tractors, thus worsening the environment in europe.
i therefore think it is desirable to support the amendment of the directive, since its adoption would achieve the objective of protecting the environment or, in the same way, promote the economic prospects of the industry concerned.
− the commission published a proposal for a directive last november setting out the eu legal framework for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste.
the proposal sets out specific requirements to ensure the safe handling and disposal of spent fuel and radioactive waste from its generation to its storage.
the principle of reversibility should be duly taken into account in the design and technical solution of the final disposal, in particular the deep geological disposal of spent fuel and highly radioactive waste.
the aim is to enable potential access to and recovery of waste, whether for technical reasons or where advances in research make room for new longer-term technological solutions.
however, the landfilling of waste must in all circumstances be carried out in accordance with internationally accepted safety standards, requirements and methodologies.
ultimately, it is the responsibility of the member states to ensure the safe management of the spent fuel and radioactive waste they generate, including its safe storage.
and while it is crucial that each member state develops its own national programme for spent fuel and radioactive waste, the alternative of finding common solutions to the issue may also be of interest.
however, i am of the opinion that such a concept cannot, under any circumstances, be a substitute for encouraging member states to avoid their national obligations relating to the management of radioactive waste.
to be effective, the cap's response to these challenges must be implemented within the framework of sound economic policies and sustainable public financing contributing to the achievement of the union's objectives.
the ongoing cap reform should therefore aim at a more sustainable, smarter and inclusive growth of europe's rural areas.
the treaty of lisbon provides a specific legal basis for the development of the energy policy of the european union, which must be appropriately used to modernise, improve interconnection and adapt the union's energy infrastructure to meet the 2020 energy and climate targets.
security of supply and strengthening solidarity between member states in the field of energy can, in my view, also be ensured through cohesion policy.
in particular, european territorial cooperation provides new opportunities for cross-border cooperation, for example to link local and regional energy sources and large energy networks.
the coordination of energy infrastructure projects at local, regional and european level is a prerequisite for ensuring proper network interconnection and maximising the efficiency of funding, whether from regional or european sources.
the european parliament has already adopted the energy policy concept of the european union and many of the approved measures of the european energy interconnection route are likely to be implemented beyond 2020. nevertheless, a look into the more distant future of the european union's energy infrastructure can certainly be useful.
new technologies and new types of energy sources also bring new demands on energy distribution and current networks are not always able to transport new types of energy.
therefore, a qualified expert view of the energy infrastructure technologies of the european union after 2020 can be a useful basis for the policy-making of the european institutions, as it will help to create a forecast of the financial capacities to provide the energy potential needed for the economic and economic growth of the european union, especially in the future.
we don't care what our energy policy, our energy infrastructure, is going to be in the future.
it is clear that competition is developing between some member states in the field of energy policy.
the question of savings and energy efficiency may also be key.
the european union is particularly dependent on a few energy sources, and we must therefore manage our existing energy resources well.
there are possible cumulative long-term effects, both direct and indirect, effects on human health, but also on the environment.
these are: environmental issues, but also issues of resistance to pesticides; secondly, there are socio-economic reasons, because we have the cost of decontamination; and then there is land planning and land management as such.
i am against such waste of land in the controversial effort to plant gmo organisms on large areas to produce so-called green diesel for motor vehicles.
on the other hand, such practices directly raise the price of other foods and do not contribute much to the environment.
the existence of permanent handicaps such as insularity, great distance from major markets, small size, terrain, difficult climate and economic dependence on a small number of products seriously hampers the development of these regions and fully justifies the application of appropriate measures.
these freedoms are based on transparent trade relations and sustainable consumption.
− the directive of the european parliament and of the council of 12 march 2001 on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms (gmos) and regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the european parliament and of the council of 22 march 2003 on genetically modified food and feed establish a very strict framework which, if properly applied, should allow for a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests, while ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market.
the directive does not allow gmos to be placed on the market without a separate environmental risk assessment.
− the threat posed to humanity by climate change is not diminishing, and global warming of 2°c is having an even more serious impact than originally thought.
although extreme weather events cannot be clearly attributed to global warming, climate change is likely to increase the frequency and intensity of such events.
however, the fact that the international community has failed to reach a comprehensive, binding international climate treaty in copenhagen does not mean that countries are not taking action.
we can link the transition to an eu-wide greenhouse gas emissions reduction target that is in line with the eu's climate goals with a healthier economy, growth in green jobs and innovation.
without significant reductions in the emission ceilings, the eu emissions trading system risks becoming unnecessary in stimulating investment in green technologies and innovation.
it is therefore essential to make the necessary efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
a move towards a national greenhouse gas emission reduction target that is also consistent with eu climate change objectives is needed.
in 2009, the european union already achieved 17.3% of its commitment to reduce co2 emissions by 20% in the europe 2020 strategy.
however, i do not share this view, especially in view of the changes in eu nuclear energy policy since fukushima.
it should be borne in mind that our initial proposals are based on an energy mix in which nuclear energy is an integral part of the programmes of several countries.
in view of the above, i think it is important that our member states do not completely shut themselves off from the possibilities of zero-carbon nuclear energy.
− the lisbon treaty has as a fundamental objective to promote the interconnection of energy networks.
progress within the eu has not been easy, and there are many areas of friction between countries in energy policy, many national interests in the way, and fragmented markets.
all obstacles can only be overcome with determination and energy policy.
both of these elements are part of the energy 2020 communication, which calls for a radical change in the approach to be taken to extremely important issues such as energy infrastructure and networks, to be mobilised and supported in the name of a 'resource efficient europe'.
i believe that the energy structures that are of particular importance to the eu's decades-long ambitions should be the focus of attention, namely the reduction of carbon, the guarantee of security of supply and price stability for consumers, and the creation of a single energy market that ensures access to affordable energy sources for businesses and citizens.
it is time for europe to act as one and to set common short, medium and long-term energy policy objectives for the benefit of european citizens and businesses.
high-quality universal services such as health, education and childcare, and essential network services such as transport, energy supply and telecommunications, ensure a healthy, active, compact and inclusive society and are also important for a higher level of labour market participation and for the development of a competitive social market economy.
on the one hand, towards those who need it, development aid has a significant impact on market relations, the emergence of elites, the environment or culture in the recipient country.
adverse demographic trends that put pressure on social systems, climate change, energy supply, with the eu importing almost two thirds of its energy in 30 years at current rates, are areas where the eu can demonstrate its added value.
security not only economic but also energy and military security, including the improvement of the protection of the external borders of the schengen area, will also be an important theme of the coming period.
it is therefore essential to strengthen vertical cooperation between different branches of public administration in order to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
i am glad that a compromise has been found in the labelling of the energy value: per 100 ml or per 100 g and per serving on the front of the pack.
this objective is part of the digital agenda for europe, the priority initiative of the europe 2020 strategy aimed at a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy.
− if you have in the face of the current economic, social and environmental crisis, strong european leadership and enhanced cooperation at eu level are needed more than ever.
it is important to look at long-term investments in order to maintain sustainable economic growth.
the clear answer from this public hearing is that women's potential, their creative energy and their managerial talent, their entrepreneurial spirit and their good risk-taking must be developed.
but let's ask ourselves: can democracy be born in a disordered political environment?
therefore, i think that the path towards promoting stability was a good choice, but it is important that after the stabilisation of the political environment, the next step should also be taken - support for democratisation, if this has not already been done in the stabilisation process.
the european foreign policy should therefore not stop after the political environment has stabilised, but continue with the further objective of democratizing society.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the significant demographic changes over the past decades, creating a sustainable culture of lifelong active ageing is becoming a political priority.
changes in the external environment, as well as internal reforms, require a renewed focus on human rights and democratic strategies.
such efforts should also be supported by global actors such as multinational corporations to contribute to the enhancement of respect for human rights worldwide, and to use their often considerable influence in developing countries to support them before they weaken their own efforts to achieve sustainable development.
the right to food is one of the fundamental human rights and can only be ensured if all people have continuous physical, social and economically sustainable access to adequate, safe and nutritious food that meets their nutritional needs and priorities for an active and healthy life.
in addition to putting development at the centre of the doha development agenda, the resolution also calls for sustainable development.
if international trade develops in this direction - that is, towards fair and sustainable development - it will certainly have fewer critics.
however, europe has long been a major source of waste, often containing rare metals or hard-to-find materials from abroad.
so, in addition to looking for new sources of raw materials, whether through trade diplomacy or cooperation in the discovery of new mining capacities, i think we need to focus more on exploiting the potential of waste recycling.
indeed, recyclable industrial waste should no longer be considered as just worthless pollution.
it is therefore here that the ecological and economic efficiency of the handling and use of the european raw material base must be emphasised.
this is why high environmental efficiency should be emphasised, so that resources are recycled several times.
the partitioning of the audit market can also help to improve the competitive environment and the quality of the work of auditors.
we must reiterate that environmental and property damage is the responsibility of the extractor.
the cost of avoiding pollution should always be borne by the operator and not by the community.
domestic oil and gas supplies make a significant contribution to energy security and energy consumption in the union.
i believe that it is appropriate to monitor the strict control and continuous testing and assessment of the environmental effects of substances to ensure that they are harmless even in the event of their release and thus to avoid impacts on public health and the environment.
while it is true that this effort by the european parliament is producing some results, i think that, in addition to other topics on improving the position of our women, as in this case in the application of the business environment, we should also make greater efforts to evaluate the feedback of the proposed measures to see which of the measures are effective and help us to meet the expected objectives and which are not working for some reason.
then we might be able to design more effectively the next steps to improve the status of our women and perhaps also in the business environment.
to strengthen their position and increase their impact on the workplace, financial support for them should be found in the current economic climate, both at eu and national level.
in writing − the commission's proposal to repeal a number of legal acts follows the european union's political commitment to improve the quality of law-making and to simplify existing legislation with a view to creating a better and clearer legislative environment for businesses.
in writing − the commission's proposal to repeal several acts, as submitted to the european parliament and the council under the ordinary legislative procedure, follows the european union's political commitment to improve the quality of law-making and to simplify the legislation in force with a view to creating a better and clearer legislative environment for businesses.
this proposal is similar to the proposal for obsolete agricultural legislation contained in the simplification intermediate programme adopted as part of the implementation of the commission's recently updated strategy to simplify the regulatory environment.
in writing − the proposal to repeal this act stems from the european union's political commitment to improve the quality of lawmaking and simplify existing legislation in order to create a better and more transparent legislative environment for businesses.
council directive 85/337/eec of 27 june 1985 on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment has been substantially amended several times.
personally, i believe that the environmental impacts of the project should be assessed in the light of the interest in protecting human health, improving the environment, contributing to the quality of life, ensuring the conservation of species diversity and preserving the reproductive capacity of the ecosystem as a fundamental resource for life.
the objective of the agreement is to promote the development of sustainable forest management and sustainable forest management practices in the tropical forests of the world, including through the promotion of sustainable forest management and sustainable forest management practices in the tropical forests of the world.
the oecd estimates that every year an area of original forest cover the size of greece is being lost, irreplaceable biodiversity is being threatened and the danger of global warming is increasing.
the objective is to promote the diversification and growth of tropical timber trade and the sustainable management of tropical forests.
to fill this gap, they decided to initiate in 2006 a process of international consultations on the establishment of a regional fisheries management organisation for the south pacific (sprfmo) to ensure cooperation in addressing the shortcomings in the management and protection of high seas biodiversity in the south pacific.
on the one hand, to defend its priorities regarding its views on what sustainable fisheries management should entail, and on the other hand, to protect the interests of its fishing fleet by acting as a counterweight where necessary.
fuel cell and hydrogen technologies are promising long-term energy alternatives that can be used in all sectors of the economy and that provide a wide range of benefits for energy security, transport, the environment and resource efficiency.
they are expected to play an important role in the eu's transition to a low-carbon society and in achieving the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by more than 85% by 2050. over the past years, the fuel cell and hydrogen industry has made considerable progress in developing technologies in all these application areas, in particular in improving performance and reducing costs.
the independence of auditors should therefore be a cornerstone of the audit environment.
with europe's ageing population comes the challenge of ensuring sustainable pensions in the face of low birth rates, a shrinking workforce and a growing number of healthy and long-lived pensioners.
written − export credit agencies are public policy instruments that are well placed to contribute to the financing of international objectives to which the eu is committed, in particular those related to climate change and poverty reduction.
half of industrial projects with high levels of co2 emissions receive some form of support from export credit agencies.
one reason is that most of these projects are high risk due to environmental, political, social and cultural impact and could not be implemented without the assistance and financial support of the export credit agencies.
export credit agencies bear a huge responsibility for the harmful environmental consequences of economic activity.
rather, as state-supported institutions, export credit agencies should and could play a significant role in supporting the transition to a low-carbon economy in line with their governments' climate commitments.
therefore, new approaches addressing non-energy, non-agricultural raw materials need to be developed to ultimately avoid situations where one party always wins and the other always loses.
i believe that it is essential to seek to ensure future competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply through appropriate measures.
the special nature of the black sea's biodiversity also requires a common management approach.
cooperation should lead to improved conditions for fishermen, economic development of coastal areas and protection of the ecological balance and fish stocks.
in writing − domestic oil and gas supplies make a significant contribution to energy consumption and energy security in the eu.
i believe that it is appropriate to monitor the strict control and continuous testing and assessment of the environmental effects of chemicals to ensure that they are suitable in the event of a leak and to prevent impacts on public health and the environment.
women face a much more difficult situation, as they sometimes have to overcome discrimination in what is traditionally considered a male environment.
she believes that improving the business environment for women is a long-term process that requires time and a change in the attitude of society as a whole.
the interconnectedness of wholesale energy markets in the union is already becoming an everyday reality, including market abuse in one member state with a negative impact on wholesale and retail electricity and gas prices in other member states.
ensuring the integrity of markets requires the establishment of an appropriate legislative framework adapted to the specific conditions in the energy sector.
the sectoral approach should thus be able to prevent market abuse, which often occurs at the expense of consumers, while encouraging open and fair competition in wholesale energy markets.
the energy situation in the european union shows that the european union needs to increase the transparency of energy markets if it is to further deepen market integration in the european union, encourage investment in energy infrastructure and optimise... (interruption) )
the fundamental right of access to documents of the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the european union is unquestionable.
in order not to waste the precious interest and activity of the europeans who turn to us, it will be necessary to work in particular on awareness of competences.
but what we fail to realize is that building and maintaining a home takes effort, time, and energy.
the european union is doing a lot to improve the climate gradually.
it is a leader in designing and promoting effective measures to reduce carbon dioxide emissions across the global community.
however, current evidence suggests that a more comprehensive approach to anthropogenic emissions will be needed to save the climate.
it appears that, as the question put forward suggests, we should gradually start to reduce the production and consumption of hydrofluorocarbons, to reduce black carbon emissions or to limit the production of gases contributing to tropospheric ozone.
but experience of the world community's current behaviour shows us that even further measures needed to improve the climate will need to be prepared and initiated again here in europe.
but the sooner we start doing that, the sooner other countries around the world can join our efforts to improve the climate.
approximately 10 years after the gradual liberalisation of the electricity and natural gas markets, it is clear that the energy exchanges that have emerged and the otc trading contracts that have become virtually ubiquitous have never been protected against attempts to manipulate markets and trade using inside information.
the liberalisation of energy markets was highlighted as a necessary measure to reduce the cost of electricity and gas to consumers.
in fact, prices tended to rise and energy poverty became a concomitant phenomenon in the ongoing liberalisation.
the proposed specific regulation of energy markets recognises the specific nature of these markets, while proposing that it be subject to the rules on market abuse and insider dealing applicable to financial markets.
the energy market integrity and transparency regulation provides a union legal framework to prevent market abuse and manipulation in the wholesale energy market.
the objective of the liberalisation introduced was to create the conditions for the internal market by 2014. however, liberalisation has not achieved its objective, energy prices have not been uniformised, prices have increased and their volatility has increased.
i believe that by screening out unfair practices we can achieve a stabilisation and uniformity of energy market prices, and thus put our end-users in a better position than they are today.
in writing − if you have in the context of the integration of national energy markets into the single european market, an eu framework is essential.
unfair practices in wholesale energy markets affect price levels in such a way that they cannot fulfil their role of sending a clear signal to power plants, households and businesses regarding the optimal use of energy.
instead, such practices can cause high price fluctuations, lead to higher energy prices for final consumers (citizens and businesses) and undermine the confidence of potential investors in energy infrastructure projects.
transparency of energy markets is a necessary precondition for further integration of the eu energy market.
remit therefore acts as a key instrument to achieve the goal set by the european council of completing the internal market by 2014. in order to avoid further liberalisation of energy markets, this regulation should not apply to very small market participants.
this will avoid new market entrants facing an excessive burden when entering energy markets.
i believe that, after implementing certain amendments proposed during the legislative process, this regulation should be able to fulfil its role and improve transparency, integrity and stability in the wholesale energy market.
in writing − unfair practices in wholesale energy markets affect price levels so that they cannot fulfil their role of sending a clear signal to power plants, households and businesses on the optimal use of energy, providing guidance for sound investment in energy infrastructure and promoting energy efficiency.
instead, such practices may cause high price volatility, lead to higher energy prices for final consumers and undermine the confidence of potential investors in energy infrastructure projects.
the transparency of energy markets is a necessary prerequisite for further integration of the eu energy market, which is expected to bring important benefits to consumers.
the remit regulation therefore acts as a key instrument to achieve the objective set by the european council of completing the internal market by 2014. in order to avoid further liberalisation of energy markets, this regulation should not apply to very small market participants and therefore to transactions below a certain volume.
this will avoid new market entrants facing an excessive burden when entering energy markets.
the regulation should improve transparency, integrity and stability in the wholesale energy market.
written − the treaty of lisbon, which entered into force on 1 december 2009, introduced a number of new legal bases to facilitate the implementation and enforcement of eu law, significantly changing the legal and regulatory environment at european level.
in addition, the draft ep resolution from the committee on international trade also formulates the requirement of sustainable development.
if international trade develops towards fair and sustainable development, it will certainly have fewer critics.
− the doha round of negotiations in 2001 was launched with the aim of creating new trade opportunities, strengthening multilateral trade rules, addressing current imbalances in the trading system and harnessing trade for sustainable development, with a focus on the economic inclusion of developing countries, in particular the least developed countries.
the wto must address new global trade-related challenges such as food security, energy, sustainable development and trade assistance consistently and urgently, even if the dda is not closed.
these are mainly environmental, fundamental rights, justice and internal market issues.
in writing − when the eu decided to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in 2008, it showed its commitment to combating the threat of climate change and set an example to the world by showing how this problem could be tackled.
the agreement to reduce emissions by 20% by 2020 compared to 1990 levels, together with the achievement of 20% renewable energy, was a key step for the eu's sustainable development and a clear signal to the rest of the world that the union was ready to take the necessary action.
but these alone are not enough to meet the target of keeping global warming below 2°c compared to pre-industrial levels.
by reducing the price of carbon emissions, the revenue to the national treasury from emissions trading could also be halved, thus increasing the pressure on public finances and limiting the potential additional source of public funds that could be used to combat climate change.
the need to find the investments needed to achieve the 20% target for renewable energy in areas such as electricity, heating and transport remains.
failure to meet this target will have huge environmental consequences and enormous economic costs and will increase the likelihood of reaching an endpoint where temperature levels begin to affect the release of co2 and ch4 from storage sites such as forests and permafrost and limit nature's ability to absorb carbon in the oceans.
european climate policy must take into account all sources of warming and all mitigation options.
i ask, how do we explain to children who are raised in a strictly relativistic moral environment that stealing is wrong?
the main cause of the permanent crisis in this region is not climate change, nor is it stock trading.
however, progress has been made in the areas of company law, consumer protection, customs, economic dialogue, financial services, public financial management and energy cooperation.
the least developed countries are the most vulnerable to climate change and inadequate flood control.
i agree with my fellow rapporteur who warns against relying on large dams to prevent flood damage, especially in the context of climate change.
in economic terms, the environmental and social costs of large dams have not been sufficiently taken into account.
i am in favour of european union aid being directed towards sustainable small-scale food production in order to increase food availability.
these schools not only allow them to study in their mother tongue and not lose their connection with home, but also to study other european languages and receive a top-level european education in a multicultural and multilingual environment.
i therefore reiterate that all free trade agreements should include provisions on respect for fundamental human rights and, of course, minimum environmental and social standards.
all other non-market aspects such as sustainable development, social cohesion, human rights and so on are being marginalized.
within the union itself, there is an effort to undermine social and environmental standards.
and trade policy itself could and should be an effective tool to promote fair trade, which takes account of social, labour and environmental standards in addition to economic benefits.
a year ago, we succeeded in parliament in pushing for a future common trade policy of the union that is more considerate of both people and the environment.
i have just one question for commissioner de gucht: does the commission have a specific, measurable objective in the europe 2020 strategy to assess progress on the impact of the european union's trade policy on human rights and social and labour standards, as well as on the environment?
this agreement, which is applicable for a period of five years and automatically renewable unless terminated by either party, has been repealed and replaced by the first ec-cape verde agreement concluded in 1990. the current protocol expired on 31 august 2011. in order to allow eu vessels to carry out fishing activities before the procedures for the conclusion of the protocol are completed, article 15 of the new protocol provides for its application on a provisional basis as from 1 september 2011. cape verde is an island nation consisting of several islands lying in the eastern atlantic 375 miles west of senegal and mauritania, with a population of approximately 465,000. they have limited natural resources and drinking water resources, and they rank 121 out of 182 countries in the un human development index.
research and innovation should be considered as absolutely essential to consolidate any strategy for growth that is to be sustainable and inclusive.
research and innovation are essential tools for consolidating a strategy for sustainable and inclusive growth.
the european schools were set up to ensure that the children of staff of the european institutions who have to work and live abroad in a different cultural environment have access to education in their mother tongue, so that these children can return to school in their country of origin at any time.
− tourism, as the eu's third main socioeconomic activity, representing 10% of gdp and contributing 12% of total employment, is a very important sector because, in addition to focusing on the integration and development of less developed regions, it can reconcile growth with moral and sustainable development in the eu member states.
through its communication of last june, as well as the new priorities identified in the europe 2020 strategy, the european commission wants to promote a coordinated approach and set a framework for action to strengthen the competitiveness and capacity for sustainable growth of the sector.
to find the minimum number of rules that protect both the freedom to do business and consumer rights and the environment.
dams that fundamentally alter rivers and the use of natural resources have a significant impact on human communities, river and wetland ecosystems and biodiversity.
i consider it essential to adopt a multi-layered flood strategy in regions where unstable glacial lakes pose a critical flood threat, further exacerbated by the effects of global warming on rainfall systems and the presence of black carbon, which is proven to accelerate glacial retreat.
among other things, it is equally necessary to assess the construction of dams in terms of their impact on river flows, access rights to water and river resources, as well as whether the dam will require the liquidation of existing settlements, cause disturbance to the culture and livelihoods of local communities or lead to the depletion or degradation of environmental resources.
any planning of dams should be evaluated on the basis of criteria such as fairness, efficiency, participatory decision-making, sustainability, accountability and the decision-making process concerning dams should, in my view, take full account of the concept of human rights.
the growing threat of food speculation, climate change, global land acquisition, agrofuels, loss of biodiversity, land degradation and pressure on water resources are contributing to a worsening food insecurity situation in the world.
in order to achieve the millennium development goals by 2015, it will be crucial to review all eu strategies such as europe 2020, global europe, energy policy, the sustainable development strategy and the future of eu development cooperation.
the key areas to be discussed should include, in addition to economic and energy issues, investment projects, security and environmental issues.
so, looking ahead, our challenge it to create a more benign geopolitical environment context for our eastern partners to move closer without being subject to such pressure and dilemmas.
the union thus guarantees the competitiveness of the member states and the union, internal convergence, a strong monetary union, a sustainable social market economy and prevents future crises.
the reduction in employment in the midtjylland region could not be foreseen due to the rapid development of the worldwide wind energy sector.
− the coordination of the economic policies of the member states within the eu should include adherence to the guiding principles of price stability, sound public finances and monetary conditions, and a sustainable balance of payments.
the stability and growth pact aims at sound public finances as a means of strengthening the conditions for price stability and strong sustainable growth contributing to job creation.
the achievement of the medium-term budgetary objective of budgetary position should allow member states to create a safe-harbour with a 3% of gdp reference value in order to ensure rapid progress towards sustainability and to gain room for budgetary manoeuvre, in particular with regard to public investment needs.
i did not support the regulation because: (1) it does not analyse how such economic policy management will contribute to the europe 2020 strategy; such rules will result in the objectives of long-term growth, modernisation and sustainability having to be subjected to short-term budgetary and market pressures; (2) the rules are not based on economic theory and will tie the hands of politicians; (3) the regulation favours cuts in spending over revenue growth; it thus hinders growth, employment and contributes to the dismantling of the state.
this would allow the medium-term budgetary objective to be effectively achieved and maintained and ensure rapid progress towards sustainability, while maintaining room for budgetary manoeuvre, in particular in view of the need for public investment.
only this condition will ensure the stability and sustainability of the union and the euro.
strengthening the governance of economic affairs must go hand in hand with strengthening the democratic legitimacy of decisions taken, which requires closer and more timely involvement not only of the relevant stakeholders, but in particular of national parliaments and the european parliament, in the whole process, for the sustainable and balanced growth of the union as a whole.
− the coordination of the economic policies of the member states, as laid down in the treaty on the functioning of the european union, should be based on the main principles of price stability, sound public finances and monetary conditions, and a sustainable balance of payments.
the stability and growth pact is based on sound public finances as a means of strengthening the conditions for price stability and strong sustainable growth supported by financial stability and conducive to job creation.
as a result, the objectives of long-term growth, modernisation and sustainability will have to be subject to short-term budgetary and market pressures.
it has been almost 20 years since the first united nations environmental conference, long enough for us to take a responsible look at what we have done in those years to make life on earth ecologically sustainable.
the upcoming un conference on sustainable development rio+20 is expected to focus on two main themes.
the first will address the green economy in the context of sustainable development and poverty eradication and the second institutional development and the sustainable development framework.
to prepare such a plan a kind of green economy roadmap we should use the time that we still have until the rio+20 earth summit in june 2012.
mr president the rio+20 conference offers us a unique opportunity to take our complex and interdependent world further down the path of sustainable development.
such an economy could be the green economy, which involves the use of low-carbon and resource-efficient solutions.
as we seek to reduce our carbon emissions more and more, i am opposed to the total exclusion of nuclear energy from our energy strategy and strongly support the deletion of article 46. at the moment, we have no other option to produce large amounts of energy with zero emissions.
i believe that the rio+20 conference will be a defining opportunity to promote sustainable development.
and environmental problems may be deepened by the current style of economic development.
but on the other hand, i am of the opinion that the planet is far from overpopulated, that it has enough energy resources and it may have enough food to keep people on this planet living with dignity.
however, the need for global solidarity in promoting sustainable consumption and production requires enhanced cooperation between developed and developing countries and the establishment of a clear timetable for the fulfilment of the set political commitments.
as far as the european union is concerned, sustainable development is a cross-cutting priority in all european union processes and policies.
that would lead to real energy problems.
− in june 2012, all eyes will be on rio de janeiro, where heads of state and government will gather for the un conference on sustainable development, 20 years after the first 'earth summit'.
rio+20 will build on the foundations of previous world summits: the un conference on the environment in stockholm (1972), the conference on environment and development (earth summit) in rio de janeiro (1992) and the world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg (2002).
it offers a unique opportunity to reaffirm political commitments to sustainable development.
it could also kick-start the much-needed reform of international governance for sustainable development.
we are still facing huge global environmental, economic and social challenges.
rio+20 is a major opportunity to promote sustainable development worldwide.
i also think it is important to stress that in the future, the main focus should be on sustainable labour market measures and our efforts should be to create the conditions for member states to use the egf to meet european objectives and to support new skills, including those related to new, sustainable, and high-quality 'green' jobs.
although the volume of loans granted by the bank has increased during the crisis and its scope of operations has also expanded, questions remain about the sustainability of its project financing.
this is because projects with negative social and environmental impacts are often financed.
and while the ebrd has increased its financing of energy efficiency projects over recent years, it is also continuing to invest in a very different spectrum of projects.
all such improvements require a complete vat system that can adapt to changes in the economic and technological environment.
all such improvements require a comprehensive vat system that can adapt to changes in the economic and technological environment.
eib financing operations should contribute to the general principles governing the union's external action as set out in article 21 of the treaty on european union, the promotion and consolidation of democracy and the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the implementation of international environmental agreements to which the eu is a party.
at the same time, however, the objective should be to seek to create conditions that minimise the need for personalised assistance in a genuinely barrier-free environment.
most member states only formally assess the quality of the legislative environment for smes and do not even bother to implement european law in this area.
the huge potential it offers should be used as a lever to create sustainable growth and jobs, to expand consumer choice and to provide new opportunities for businesses.
justice is essential in environmental, labour and international economic relations.
adequate information on dispute resolution options for citizens and smes can save significant energy and costs for society and the economy.
it is clear that price alone cannot be the deciding factor social aspects, as well as sustainable job creation issues are now of paramount importance.
it is therefore necessary to approach these modernisations in a systematic way, with a focus on sustainable development.
its objective is to guarantee the free movement of these economic machines while reducing the permitted level of exhaust emissions from engines in order to protect the health and quality of life of citizens and the environment.
− the maximum exhaust emissions of carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter from diesel engines of non-road mobile machinery are regulated in directive 97/68/ec.
the directive is an important part of the union's environmental legislation, it makes a major contribution to reducing emissions and i believe that its revision should seek to achieve consistency between the relevant requirements and the legislation.
at the same time, it is essential to make efforts to create conditions that minimise the need for personalised assistance in a truly barrier-free environment.
for the reasons stated above, i support the use of european structural funds to create a barrier-free environment and i vote in favour of the report on mobility and inclusion of people with disabilities.
i also believe that our aim should be to reach a compromise on issues such as environmental and social challenges in public procurement policy, the quality of work done, including adequate pay, equality and social cohesion - all in the interests of achieving optimal conditions for citizens, businesses, employees and taxpayers.
public procurement must not lead to a reduction in environmental and social standards.
i therefore take the view that the criterion of the lowest price should no longer be the determining criterion for the award of contracts and should be replaced by the criterion of the most economically advantageous tender in terms of economic, social and environmental benefits, taking into account the life-cycle costs of the goods, services or works concerned.
it is necessary for the union to promote fair trade, democracy, human rights, decent work and sustainable development in its trade policies at all times, in accordance with the treaty of lisbon, its internal programme and the millennium development goals.
we also need to reduce our energy dependence so that we can curb imported inflation and restore the balance of trade with oil-producing countries.
− organized crime creates significant social costs as it misappropriates resources, disrupts the common free market, damages the transparency of businesses and the legal economy, promotes corruption, pollutes and destroys the environment, violates human rights and undermines democratic principles.
the union is not only one of the most important donors of official development assistance, but also offers developing countries a comprehensive set of measures to promote sustainable development, in particular by working with partner countries to develop an aid delivery strategy.
the council had warned us on several occasions that it would not waste its time with the excesses of its institutional partners.
the marked ageing of european society and the decline in birth rates indicate that in the current legal and social environment, the personal care of mothers for their children is not sufficiently valued.
this is to support a smart, sustainable, inclusive economy that contributes to job creation.
the 2012 draft budget will undoubtedly also focus on achieving the objective of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, setting out, inter alia, priorities such as investments to support growth in times of fiscal consolidation, strengthening the budgetary dimension of the europe 2020 strategy or strengthening the priority areas of the lisbon treaty.
the 2012 draft budget will also focus on achieving the objective of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, setting out, inter alia, priorities such as investments to support growth in times of fiscal consolidation, strengthening the budgetary dimension of the europe 2020 strategy and strengthening the priority areas of the lisbon treaty.
tax competition in the eu is stagnating, public sector policymaking is becoming more rigid, and it is also more difficult to ensure a more sustainable and socially integrated society, as capital and profit transfers are very easy and very lucrative for some and unaffordable for others.
in order to deal with the situation more promptly, the union has sought to strengthen its european refugee fund and adopt a sustainable european refugee agenda.
the nature and manner of committing these offences in the anonymous, often criminogenic, environment of the internet is also changing significantly, and legislation needs to be sufficiently flexible to address and respond to this without any legal gaps remaining.
the organisational separation of the railway infrastructure network from the transport and service operators will certainly help to make the competitive environment in the railway sector more attractive.
while member states are free to regulate their own environment to a certain extent, this must be in line with european internal market legislation.
we should therefore jointly seek the appropriate framework for the responsible regulation of this environment.
in central europe, the biodiversity of the flora is relatively well preserved, which makes it possible to produce high-quality flower and honey honey without major investment.
failure to maintain domestic bee lines risks their replacement by lines or species that cannot be accepted in densely populated countries, with negative consequences for biodiversity and consequently for bee health.
and last but not least, we need sustainable and high-quality jobs.
they must be adapted to the environment in which they will be applied so that they can be used in the environment of small local authorities as effectively and efficiently as in more complex cases.
− i would like to highlight the importance of education in the fight against poverty and also the crucial role of volunteering and active citizenship as instruments of cohesion and of combating economic, social and environmental disparities, as they encourage citizens to engage in public life through sport, culture, the arts, social and political activities.
− the structure of the framework programme, to be implemented through indirect actions and implementing the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training (2012-2013), consists of two types of activities: indirect actions for fusion energy research and nuclear fission and radiation protection research, and direct actions for the activities of the joint research centre for nuclear energy.
− the european community framework programme for research and training in the field of atomic energy (2012 2013) is to be implemented through specific programmes, which define the detailed rules for its implementation, determine its duration and provide for the means deemed necessary.
the structure of the framework programme (2012 2013) consists of two types of activities: indirect actions for fusion energy research and nuclear fission and radiation protection research and direct actions for the activities of the joint research centre in the field of nuclear energy.
− the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training for the years 2012 to 2013 has the same overall scope and principles as the seventh framework programme of the community adopted by council decision 2006/970/euratom of 18 december 2006 on the seventh framework programme of the european atomic energy community (euratom) for nuclear research and training (2007 to 2011).
beekeeping also provides important ecosystem services through pollination.
changing climatic and environmental conditions, loss of biodiversity of plant species, land use change, but also incorrect beekeeping practices result in weakening the immune system of bee colonies.
that is why i think we need to monitor how the environment, beekeeping practices and farming techniques affect bee health.
there is a key link in this report between the need to preserve a quality driven agriculture and the fundamental challenge to preserve the biodiversity and this should also be in my view the strong link behind the reform of the common agricultural policy.
i would like to close by reminding the necessity to invest in a quality and sustainable agricultural system that could stand the competition with other regional markets and relaunch the consumption of 0km products.
to take more account of efficiency aspects, they should not only focus on economic criteria but also take into account social, territorial and environmental aspects, while taking into account criteria such as quality, results and sustainability.
if the kyoto protocol were not to be continued after 2012, durban would go down in history as the scene of the defeat of global efforts to bring climate change under control.
where the personal dimension of aid is lost, there is waste, corruption, market distortion and top-level conferences.
without measures to stimulate growth, this will not be sustainable.
member states and the eu must seek alternative sources of financing for european rail projects, stimulate private investment and, above all, make the rail market attractive to private investors through a transparent legal environment.
− the overwhelming scientific evidence points to climate change, and therefore action is needed to help tackle this major challenge of the 21st century effectively.
a broader and more effective european climate diplomacy is needed by all eu institutions ahead of the durban conference, which should aim to present a clearer eu climate policy profile, bringing new momentum to international climate negotiations and encouraging the introduction of binding emission reductions and adequate climate mitigation and adaptation measures.
in my view, it would be beneficial for the eu to take the lead and push for an ambitious climate policy, thereby encouraging other countries to follow suit in doing so.
at the same time, members of civil society, including representatives of gender equality organisations, should be given the opportunity to actively participate in the activities of the green climate fund management board and all its subsidiary boards.
adaptation efforts should systematically and effectively address the impacts of climate change in terms of gender equality in energy, water, food security, agriculture and fisheries, biodiversity and ecosystem services, health, industry, human settlements, disaster management and conflict and security.
− climate change is one of the biggest environmental, social and economic challenges.
despite various conspiracy theories, the warming of the climate system is a confirmed fact.
global warming is causing the air and oceans to warm, accelerating the melting of snow and ice, and raising the global average water level.
as with the economy and the global financial crisis, it is clear that we are all on the same page when it comes to climate change, because whatever the states decide to do, the consequences will be felt around the world.
the need, or rather the necessity, to keep the global average temperature rise below two degrees celsius is one of the european union's top priorities in environmental matters.
unfortunately, the failure of a new climate treaty based on the kyoto protocol and its replacement by a voluntary and non-binding framework will simply not be enough to reach the limit of a temperature rise of below 2 degrees.
the mobilisation of domestic resources in partner countries is key to sustainable development.
maybe then we'll be able to coordinate some of our moves in this environment better.
the european union's 2009 telecoms reform package was intended to improve the competitive environment for telecommunications services in the internal market.
the european atomic energy community framework programme for nuclear research and training follows on from the nuclear research and development measures implemented under the 7th framework programme of the european atomic energy community for 2007 2011. in line with the current financial perspective and time horizon of the 7th framework programme, the proposals cover only the two-year period up to 2013, but are designed in line with the europe 2020 and energy 2020 objectives.
in particular, research into nuclear fission is bringing new insights and more efficient and secure access to a stable carbon-free energy source.
the international thermonuclear experimental reactor, with its accompanying research and development programmes, remains the most important bearer of the perspective of the significant potential of safe, ecological, sustainable and economically accessible energy sources for europe.
i say this despite the fact that some of our member states have decided to phase out nuclear energy.
central european countries, including slovakia, are heavily dependent on nuclear energy.
research relying on co-financing submitted by euratom will greatly facilitate the production of energy based on nuclear fission.
the proposals for the framework programme are also clearly linked to the objectives of the europe 2020 and energy 2020 strategies, which contribute to the expansion of employment in a number of areas.
it not only trains new specialists but also increases the competitiveness of the existing nuclear industry, particularly in the field of fusion energy.
we need reliable and secure sources until the end of the project's life, as fusion energy can provide a sustainable solution to europe's and the world's energy problems.
freedom, the rule of law and the fight against impunity are pillars of sustainable peace, as they guarantee respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
− europe's seas and coasts are important to europe's well-being and prosperity they are european trade routes, climate regulators, sources of food, energy and supplies, and a favourite place to live and recreate.
technology and knowledge are bringing more capital from the seas, and more and more people are coming to europe's coasts to exploit this capital, but at the same time the cumulative impact of such activity is creating contradictions in the use of the marine environment on which everything else depends, and leading to a deterioration in its quality.
in the context of rapid globalisation and climate change, europe needs to respond promptly to this situation.
the commission proposes an integrated maritime policy that will strengthen europe's ability to face the challenges of globalisation and competitiveness, climate change, pollution of the marine environment, maritime safety and security, energy security and sustainability.
− in march of that year, the commission issued a package of legislative proposals for the continuation of the european atomic energy community (euratom) nuclear research and training activities in 2012 and 2013. research co-financed by euratom plays, inter alia, an important role in increasing the safety, resource efficiency and cost-effectiveness of nuclear fission and other uses of radiation in industry and medicine, and some research projects are key to the european industrial initiatives launched under the european strategic energy technology plan (set plan) last year.
the proposals for the euratom framework programme are clearly linked to the objectives of the europe 2020 and energy 2020 strategies.
the programme is expected to contribute to the objectives of the innovation union initiative, to bring growth and new job opportunities in a wide range of scientific disciplines by emphasising training in all its activities, to increase competitiveness in the current nuclear sector or to create a new sector of the advanced sector, in particular in the case of fusion energy.
i am convinced that, in order to avoid similar disasters, it is important that europe has stronger nuclear research to help it move forward in the field of nuclear energy.
− many global challenges in the fields of foreign policy, security, development and the environment require common action and transatlantic cooperation, but the economic crisis has now come to the fore, making it one of the main challenges to be addressed today.
sustainable development is important, taking into account the union's climate change objectives and developing the southern corridor.
georgia plays a key role in improving the eu's energy security.
in order to advance equality of opportunity in the vision of sustainable development of the peoples of europe and in the work of the committees, i am in favour of introducing family mainstreaming to achieve real and sustainable equality of opportunity for all citizens.
such fishing is one of the most serious threats to the biodiversity of the world's oceans.
it is also a major environmental and economic problem worldwide for both marine and freshwater fisheries and undermines efforts to manage fisheries.
it also threatens the sustainability of fish stocks and food security and distorts the market, with incalculable social and economic impacts and, above all, a negative impact on society as a whole.
in the press releases cited above, luigi de magistris published information concerning a subsequent written question to the european commission requesting more detailed information on the irregularities in public procurement identified by the commission in may 2009. he asked for more detailed information on the alleged waste of public funds in the naples area, where bagnoliafutura operates.
they are experiencing or threatened with particular severe difficulties, mainly related to their economic growth and financial stability and to the worsening of their deficit and debt situation, which is, inter alia, caused by the international economic and financial environment.
a better framework for economic governance should be based on a variety of interlinked policies for sustainable growth and employment.
we must also help in the negotiations with russia and in the field of energy security, so that we can strengthen energy cooperation with the european union.
the current customs system faces a rapidly changing environment changing production and consumption trends, growing international trade, global threats such as terrorism, organised crime, climate change and new dangers such as trade in dangerous goods.
to prevent a deepening energy crisis, europe must ensure the conditions for a long-term and sustainable energy supply.
fusion energy can also provide a sustainable solution to europe's and the world's energy problems.
the process does not produce greenhouse gases or long-lived radioactive waste and can therefore be a large-scale, permanent source of basic energy for sustainable development.
iter will demonstrate and refine the key technologies needed to develop fusion as a safe and environmentally friendly energy source, a field in which europe has been a leader for the past 50 years.
i believe iter will bring the promised revolutionary breakthrough that could provide a long-term, radical solution to our energy problems.
− the objectives of the common fisheries policy, in particular to ensure the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources from an economic, environmental and social point of view, while applying the precautionary principle and an ecosystem-based strategy, also apply to waters beyond the territorial waters and the waters of the european union.
the eu, together with bulgaria, cyprus, france, greece, malta, romania, slovenia, italy and spain, are parties to the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), which can adopt recommendations and resolutions based on scientific information in order to promote the development, conservation, rational management and best use of living aquatic resources in the mediterranean and black seas at low risk and at levels considered sustainable.
any obstacles resulting from the inconsistent application of bilateral, plurilateral and multilateral trade rules are unjustified and regulatory dialogue should, in particular, respect the right of all states to strengthen human rights, environmental rules, social rules and public health.
therefore it should be effectively mainstreamed into eu policies and mechanisms, including those such as development, energy, environment and trade.
in other words, the use of phosphates is harmful to the environment.
they contribute to the accelerated growth of algae and higher plants, thus disturbing the ecological balance in our waters, especially in particularly vulnerable areas such as the baltic sea and the danube basin.
the general objective of this proposal is, in particular, to reduce the negative impact of such substances on the aquatic environment.
in an increasingly complex and unpredictable security environment, it is desirable that all member states cooperate more closely and coordinate their actions against the common threats identified in the european security strategy and fully assume their share of responsibility for peace and security in europe, its neighbourhood and the world.
for example, security of energy supply is one of europe's greatest challenges and one of the main areas of cooperation with russia.
their joint efforts should be directed towards the efficient use of energy and energy systems and should be further developed as appropriate.
the european union has very few effective tools to shape its environment.
more than a quarter of emissions are produced by the transport sector.
administrative pressure to reduce emissions in all modes of transport should therefore be a permanent and serious part of european transport policy.
the risk of fraud, corruption, non-compliance with rules or efficiency criteria is very high in such an environment.
european policy must be an innovation orientation capable of ensuring a long-term and sustainable energy supply for the whole of the european union.
the russian gas crisis, the fukushima nuclear disaster and the depletion of our fossil fuels are all driving us to find answers to the energy question of the future as soon as possible.
the intelligent energy europe programme developed by the commission certainly represented such a direction.
its main objective is to provide clean, safe and sustainable energy for future generations.
it promotes energy efficiency, the use of renewable energy sources and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
i think that despite the concerns about fukushima, nuclear energy can be considered as a smart energy.
it has been demonstrated that nuclear energy is capable of producing unlimited, clean, safe and carbon-free energy.
nuclear energy should therefore be given a stable place in the intelligent energy programme.
to achieve sustainable economic growth, the european union needs to be secure in its energy resources.
europe does not have the oil or gas resources to afford not to look for alternative energy solutions, so it was natural to launch the smart energy programme, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources and modern sustainable energy solutions.
however, the smart energy programme is only scheduled to run until the end of 2013, and therefore we need to ask ourselves today how we will continue with the initiatives on innovative energy and solutions beyond 2013. i, like my colleagues, expect the european commission to give us an answer to this question, which is very topical today, in the near future.
similarly, the steady increase in energy prices is seen and marked by a strong distrust of consumers and a belief that energy suppliers are abusing their dominant position.
greater transparency in energy pricing and better supervision by regulatory authorities could help to restore consumer confidence in this area as well.
the provisional measures and exemptions should be lifted as soon as possible and as soon as the economic situation allows otherwise the situation may not be sustainable.
competition policy is a policy conducive to a healthy, competitive business environment.
however, it is of serious concern that a significant part of international aid is lost in the distribution chain, in particular through waste, excessive costs of intermediation and security, excessive invoicing and corruption.
the overall objective of eu development assistance to afghanistan should be to support the long-term and sustainable development of the country, including the improvement of socio-economic standards, facilitating job creation and the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises, strengthening the education sector and ensuring gender equality.
because only in this way can sustainable development be achieved and the situation be resolved in the long term.
it is noteworthy that while the environment in which eu competition policy operates is undergoing profound changes such as rapid technological development, enlargement or globalisation, the various provisions of the 1957 treaty prohibiting certain anti-competitive agreements and the abuse of a dominant position are not affected by time, nor are the state aid provisions, which testifies to their inherent applicability in different circumstances.
at the same time, competition policy supports the european union's main objectives, as enshrined in the treaties: a competitive market, economic, social and territorial cohesion and sustainable development.
the report covers a number of sectors, including the call for the swift implementation of the internal energy market package to achieve an open and competitive single energy market.
− following the erika oil tanker accident and the significant oil pollution caused by it, the commission proposed a regulation at the end of 2000 establishing the european maritime safety agency (emsa) as a body of expertise to guarantee a high, uniform and effective level of maritime safety and prevention of pollution from ships in the eu.
oil and gas exploration and production activities at sea pose risks to maritime transport and the marine environment.
however, it must be sustainable in the light of the new challenges facing society.
in implementing the strategy, the eu launched important initiatives and programmes over the past four years to support priorities such as good governance, the rule of law, human rights and democratisation, education and training, economic development, trade and investment, transport and energy, environmental sustainability and water management, and tackling common threats and challenges.
the countries belonging to this region have had a really turbulent history, during the cold war they were part of the soviet union and after gaining independence they have been and are still undergoing a difficult test of the sustainability of democracy.
azerbaijan is a friendly country of the european union and is making efforts to progressively democratise its political environment.