you have mentioned many issues here, such as the deepening of democracy, refugees, the business environment, visa-free travel, the situation of minorities.
− that is a very difficult question, because all priorities are linked, so we need to complete the energy market – we need an integrated energy market.
this is also a way to have renewables and energy efficiency.
energy efficiency is certainly a priority, but we also need to invest in low-carbon technologies, because there is also an external dimension and we need to pursue our external ambitions – to speak, as far as is possible, in unison with our partners in the energy field.
there are four priorities which i would like the european council to address on 4 february: completion of the energy market and implementation of all the rules of the internal market; energy efficiency; low carbon technologies; and accepting joint efforts where the external dimension is concerned.
the european union now has to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020. at the political level, however, we are also talking about a more ambitious target and it is known that in this case the sectors within the ets, in particular the energy sector, would bear the greatest burden.
what additional measures should the european union introduce in the field of energy, and do these include the conditions you mentioned in your answer to my colleague's question?
in this context, i would like to mention in particular energy security and the sustainable supply of energy, infrastructure and the possibility of influencing the resolution of conflicts and open issues in the region, as well as the development of partnership with russia and turkey.
in the energy field, we have set targets covering all three pillars of the common energy policy: competitiveness, the environment and sustainability.
two large packages have already been adopted to achieve these objectives: one is the climate and energy package and the other is the liberalisation package.
i therefore believe that we do not need new legislation in the energy sector at the moment, but that we need to focus more on implementing existing legislation.
we need to improve the credibility of the union, and i do not think we need any new requirements for improving energy efficiency.
we also need to create an environment that encourages investment in infrastructure.
energy is included in the ets and the carbon price must be the main driver of development.
in the energy sector, we also need better cross-border coordination and strategic planning of new infrastructure, and the acer energy agency, which will start operations in ljubljana in march, needs all the support it can get to carry out its tasks effectively.
and it seems that what we mostly see as waste today may become a source of health for us or for someone else.
i wish the government and the european commission a lot of determination, patience, perseverance and energy to complete the reforms and perhaps mark the 20th anniversary of croatian independence by the end of the negotiations.
president, commissioner, minister, the dramatic and profound political changes are a reminder that democratization is taking place in the arab world, and that we are becoming increasingly aware of our vulnerability and energy dependence.
today, it is necessary to stress the need to open the energy chapter as soon as possible and to tell our cypriot friends in nicosia firmly that the opening of this chapter is in our, cypriot and turkish interests.
if we're serious about our climate goals, then nuclear power will remain part of our energy mix.
we need to assess the competence and independence of regulatory bodies, which play a key role in ensuring a safety culture, and ensure the safe disposal of high-level radioactive waste and spent fuel.
i therefore think it is high time that the european parliament was given more powers in the field of nuclear energy and that we should reach some kind of interinstitutional agreement to have the power of co-decision.
in conclusion, i should like to say that we are in the process of adopting a directive on radioactive waste and that we will be able to show our seriousness here.
but i'm against these victims being used to fight against the use of nuclear energy, which is ideological.
all this must become an integral part of the policy that the european union, also through its diplomatic service, promotes in its environment in the future.
in short, i would like to conclude by saying that we must harness all the positive energy we feel here in the european parliament, the temple of european democracy, and in the european commission, and make sure that this report is not just a letter on paper.
this year's volunteer year also demonstrates our commitment to a clean environment.
but i want to invite you to not just stop at this signature, but to help make this action, this one-day action to clean up our environment, succeed in as many countries as possible next year, in 2012, in more countries than ever before, and in this way also support the environmental societies in your countries.
and the next question: what will the consequences of the closure of german nuclear power stations be for the internal european energy market?
as for the nuclear waste directive, i would say that we will have more opportunities to discuss it next time, because you mentioned it in your speech, and i hope that the european commission will take the european parliament's proposals into account, because in the itre committee we voted on a number of stronger proposals than those originally proposed by the european commission.
− we are considering a draft legislative document introducing for the first time european standards for the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel.
the european parliament has also repeatedly requested a directive on the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel.
we have paid particular attention to the protection of workers handling spent fuel and radioactive waste, to the observance of the professionally established principle of alara (as low as reasonably achievable), to education, training, as well as to the development of scientific and technological skills.
i would like to stress in particular the position on the export of radioactive waste.
we want the radioactive waste to be safely disposed of.
for example, countries without a final disposal site should not export radioactive waste.
we also tabled an amendment requiring the european commission to evaluate the concept of radioactive waste and spent fuel management after the mutual expert reviews.
the situation is that, for geological or other reasons, the most suitable sites for the storage of nuclear waste and for nuclear power stations are often border areas, so that an indivisible, equal participation of citizens and transparency and the corresponding rights are necessary at european level.
− i am very pleased that this debate has also shown that many of the points on which we have similar views are almost identical and that these are the points which are crucial to ensuring the safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste.
i am of course in agreement with all those members who have mentioned the sole competence of the european parliament to consult on nuclear energy.
i would like to ask my colleague what terrible tragedy she had in mind in france in connection with nuclear energy and what she thinks is the realistic scenario if we in the european parliament demand that we give up nuclear energy.
how can we ensure greater security and sustainable development for the people of the world?
we are talking about sustainable development and international negotiations, and i have noticed that members of this house have been faced with dilemmas on several occasions since i have been in this parliament.
the nuclear energy paragraph in the resolution is wrong and does not represent a solution.
no country will give up nuclear energy at the european parliament's request.
if we want to do good, we have to provide people with a healthy environment and safety.
in the context of nuclear energy, we can help to achieve this by demanding the highest possible nuclear standards and the international harmonisation of these standards.
we are threatened by climate change, and nuclear power is the only energy source that produces electricity without emitting greenhouse gases.
energy is an important part of the transition to a green economy and i myself support the development of sustainable energy sources and a strong focus on energy efficiency.
first of all, as rapporteur for the itre opinion, i would like to thank my colleagues for the good cooperation in both the envi and itre committees, and in doing so we have recognised the truly horizontal role that climate change plays.
sustainable technologies will play a key role in the transition to a low-carbon society.
we have already adopted a climate and energy legislative package in the union and have also committed ourselves to financial assistance to developing countries.
however, the union will not be able to stop global warming on its own.
so we are not just looking for a balance between environment, safety and the economy, but also a balance between responsibility between the union and the rest of the world, and in this context i very much agree with what the commissioner said about the bridge, the conditions and the timetable.
measures should not merely divert pollution outside the union and lead to carbon leakage.
we must prevent products from being imported into the union which would be competitive because of lower environmental standards.
we have to consider the possibility of carbon leakage.
the eu should also emphasise in the climate negotiations that a healthy environment is a fundamental human right.
although not all member states use it, the importance of this energy does not mean that research at european level should be abandoned.
in particular, i would mention research areas such as, for example, sustainable use and resource efficiency (this is mainly the fourth generation of reactors), and then nuclear fuel reprocessing, nuclear safety, nuclear waste disposal, decommissioning of power plants.
the area of recruitment is particularly important, as for a long time this energy has been neglected and as such has not presented a specific perspective for young people.