what are the effects on global fish stocks, on employment and on the environment in papua new guinea?
let me mention a few: a successfully concluded visa liberalisation process, regional cooperation in both transport and energy, a political will to contribute to the reconciliation process in the region, and a new political leadership, most visible in president boris http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/boris_tadi%c4%87" \o "boris tadiæ" visits to both srebrenica and vukovar.
i think it is well balanced and takes account of both those who want to exploit natural resources and those who are seriously concerned about the climate consequences.
i believe that the best protection for the arctic would be a global climate agreement, but in the meantime we need to develop more short-term solutions to limit the warming of the arctic.
i would like to see the european parliament acknowledging that emissions of carbon monoxide are a major contributor to the warming of the arctic.
i would therefore also urge the commission to make the necessary amendments to the directive on national emission ceilings for certain air pollutants so that emissions of carbon monoxide are also included.
in terms of the energy and climate crisis, what is the response from the council?
the world outside of europe is facing the energy challenge head on.
in last week’s state of the union address, president barack obama emphasised energy efficiency and the possibilities offered by green technology.
you do not even dare to discuss a binding energy efficiency target.
energy efficiency is the favourite theme of every energy speaker or politician, and the council defers it until 2012. china is investing heavily in research and new technologies.
the competition and innovation programme, the cip, is struggling for support and the financing for set, the strategic energy technology programme, is at less than half.
we even have member states which are already planning for a 30% reduction in emissions, like germany, but the council does not dare to move; neither does the commission, by the way.
according to a recent joint report from barclays and accenture, the shift to a low-carbon economy is leading to a remarkable development of sustainable low-carbon technologies.
the council is haggling about the energy target.
nor do you see that the member states are fulfilling the third energy market package and there is even a debate on funding for research and innovation in the long-term budget.
that is where we are in europe, and the council shows no leadership at all when it comes to energy, climate, competitiveness and jobs.
yesterday, as martin schulz has already said, the socialist group in parliament held an alternative summit on energy policy.
we did so at a time when more and more families and citizens cannot afford to keep their homes warm, and at a time when the energy-dependent, competitive industry has been suffering.
our message from the alternative energy summit to tomorrow's eu summit is very simple and clear.
make sure we get binding energy efficiency targets that are also being met.
investing in them to prevent today's energy leakage would bring both economic gains and new jobs.
invest in renewable energy if you don't think we have an infinite supply, and invest in distribution networks that are modern and efficient for all types of energy.
provide consumers and citizens with strong and clear rights vis-à-vis energy companies.
ensure that the energy market is both transparent and monitorable.
demonstrate with radical initiatives that energy is a matter of social responsibility and political decision-making, not a private matter for individual citizens left to their own devices.
we must show that we see, as martin schulz also said, that energy policy is also social policy, industrial policy and future policy.
secondly, regarding energy, we need energy efficiency.
that is one way of using energy sources efficiently.
secondly, we also need to ensure that we have the production needed to leave fossil fuels and make it possible to have low prices without carbon dioxide emissions.
using our energy sources, together with a common grid and a common energy market, is one way forward.
we certainly live in a wasteful society if we call this waste.
to reduce our dependence on imports of key raw materials and to avoid the release of heavy metals and other toxins into the environment.
it's a pure profit to take care of this waste, it shouldn't even be called a cost.
we also need to vote in favour of the amendments which call for better control of nano-waste.
we must stop the export of waste to poor countries.
yes, they will in asia, and there will be a demand for extremely energy-efficient vehicles.
the deal will not benefit the environment either, because even if each truck emits 28 percent less, no one believes that traffic will not increase until 2020. the 30% reduction targets which we are likely to achieve through the negotiations in durban, south africa, will also not be reached.
so unfortunately, competitiveness, the economy or the environment are not going to win this deal.
it's the same with supercredits: it tricks us into thinking that emissions are less than they are if you count an electric car three times.
so no, 2010 was a very hot year, climate change is real and the measures we are taking are good for the economy.
we are finally getting a regulation of emissions from light commercial vehicles too, and that is important.
what we are seeing is an environmental and industrial policy decision that has clearly been affected by the economic crisis and by the fact that so many european governments, conservative right-wing governments, have chosen to meet this economic crisis with only cuts and no investment.
the commission has therefore been more ambitious than even parliament's committee on the environment, and that is not common.
i am grateful that this decision does contain a review of the emission targets for 2014. i hope that we will then have a second chance to show that we are serious about the fact that competitiveness and high ambitions in climate policy are not in conflict with each other, but can, on the contrary, help each other to move forward.
i think we should dare to say, as commissioner andris piebalgs did, that the world bank has a very conscious energy strategy.
often when we talk about alternative energy sources we talk about wind and solar energy and of course we should.
we need binding commitments to reach headline targets and legislation in key job-creating areas, such as energy efficiency targets at a common european level.
existing initiatives, such as the strategic energy technology plan, the lifelong learning programme and the energy efficiency action plan, have already been adopted, but you in the council failed to bring the money to the table.
work on climate-smart and resource-efficient processes and products, green energy and green jobs needs to be intensified.
fourthly, the commission we must have a clear commitment to energy efficiency policy.
the low level of ambition and lack of political will is surprising, especially as energy efficiency improvements are one of the best and smartest ways to reduce economic costs for consumers, empower businesses and make a difference.
secondly: a raising of the ceiling for projects against climate change.
i do not, however, support the view of nuclear power as a clean source of energy.
it is urgent to discuss the possibility of financing infrastructure projects using, for example, european project bonds, as well as a possible solution for european carbon taxation to convert european production to sustainable development.
sometimes it is fisheries, sometimes farming, sometimes maritime transport, energy or tourism that sets the agenda.
we must remember that some policies such as fisheries and agriculture are mostly decided at eu level, but with environmental policies it is member states that are mostly responsible.
cooperation with other states in the atlantic region is also absolutely essential; in order, for instance, to decrease the amount of microscopic plastic debris, to fight illegal fishing or to ensure that fisheries and environmental regulations are effectively controlled and enforced.
we all depend on healthy seas and good environmental status.
therefore environmental objectives are not only about the environment, but also about a prosperous atlantic region.
the importance of ecologically sustainable fishing and the importance of the eu not renewing the fisheries agreement with morocco, which is contrary to international law.
the commission's strategy for the atlantic region must therefore give high priority to the issue of ecologically sustainable fishing.
for example, we had a visit from the swedish minister for the environment and public health, who was then president of the council of ministers of the european union, to deal with this issue on the same day as we had the president of the european agency for the prevention of infectious diseases there, and they said two very different things.
i would also like to highlight the positive climate aspects that would result from growing more protein crops in the eu.
the more money we make, the more meat we eat, the more climate impact we have, and the more protein crops we consume.
this choice was because, as the europe 2020 negotiator of the alde group, i would otherwise have risked undermining the group's negotiating position on issues that are important to us, such as the importance of creating a real internal market, enabling the financing of infrastructure projects with european project bonds and a possible solution for a european carbon tax.
the report on innovative financing addresses a number of important aspects, such as the importance of creating a genuine internal market as the basis for european growth, the importance of enabling the financing of european infrastructure projects through european project bonds, and a possible solution for a european carbon tax, in order to convert european production to sustainable development.
sustainable solutions are needed for displaced persons.
today, it is also about contributing to the great transition the fundamental transition to environmental and climate sustainability and not being a hindrance to it, but contributing to such a transition.
it's about everything from energy efficiency, it's also about resource management and recycling, for example in the form of what we call urban mining.
another key issue for a modern and sustainable industry is recurrent training programmes.
it should contain sustainable and resource-efficient management, innovation and access to raw materials for european companies.
we need better management of raw materials supply within europe and effective measures to encourage recycling and reducing waste.
with minerals, metals and forests, northern europe has the potential to respond significantly to eu raw material needs in a sustainable way.
the eu strategy must be based on free trade and must ensure that both developed and developing countries can benefit from the sustainable supply of raw materials.
there have also been environmental and occupational health and safety conflicts.
that is where we are - that is, the member states with the vulnerability look different, but we have this in common nonetheless and energy supply requires long-term thinking.
we simply need to re-engineer our energy systems to reduce risk and unilateralism.
we must give serious priority to research and development, investment and the development of long-term sustainable and renewable energy sources.
what we should do now instead is to have a serious discussion about raising the eu's renewable energy targets and ambitions and to decide as soon as possible on binding energy efficiency targets and a long-term plan for our energy supply a transition to renewable energy.
but one thing should be obvious: we have to reform our energy production and to rely instead on renewable energy and we have to do it now.
it is about research and development, transport and energy infrastructure and the realisation of the real potential of the single market - a well-functioning eu labour market and a solid basis for growth and competitiveness.
now each member state must respect and implement the directive, which aims to harmonise the protection of refugees and to build a sustainable european asylum system by 2012. we have committed ourselves to implementing it and we must do so in a spirit of solidarity and with full respect for international commitments for the common security and stability of all.
we must have european safety standards in the system and finally we must ensure that the council of ministers also comes up with proposals on energy efficiency, alternative energy sources and a timetable for this.
yes, we do, but i would add that we need a locomotive for social justice and for a sustainable society.
on the contrary, it is the prerequisite for a sustainable and social economy and for growth.
nuclear power is a different kind of energy source.
i am therefore pleased that there seems to be a strong and broad consensus on nuclear energy and security issues in the european parliament.
in the longer term, the situation shows the unsustainable state of our current energy supply.
we don't have a sufficiently diversified energy mix.
the efforts to promote renewable energy and energy efficiency must be translated from words into action.
what we need is nothing less than a paradigm shift in energy policy, but that is not what this resolution is about.
it must be the beginning of a new start in the transition of our energy system towards sustainability, and of course preparation for a strategy which also phases out nuclear power.
lastly, it is essential that we should now also draw the lessons for alternative energy and energy efficiency.
the strength and sustainability of the european economy require greater investment in railways and ports.
environmental, poverty and development aspects should always be taken into account when the investment bank takes decisions.
i would therefore like to take a few seconds to point out that this is perhaps the first tangible evidence of what will happen to our agriculture when the climate changes violently.
so it's very important that we start vaccinating now, but it's also very important that when we talk about climate, environment and the future, we realize that it's not just drought and rain that's going to change.
a strong climate change will mean something quite different, diseases with epidemics and epizootics, both among humans and among animals.
first of all, when it comes to the increase in oil prices, there are actually two sectors which are exempt from all energy taxes already and those are aviation and shipping – including fisheries.
yet at the same time we are making lots of promises in the international arena to reduce co2 emissions, in fact by 80-95% by 2050; we have also promised in nagoya to eliminate environmentally harmful subsidies by 2020; in the wto negotiation context we are also focusing on how to eliminate the distortion of fishery subsidies.
the agenda includes the report by gunnar hökmark, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on radio spectrum policy (com ((2010) 0471 - c7-0270/2010 - 2010/0252 ((cod)) (a7-0151/2011).
we must then ensure that we have that policy space and that investment must also adapt to a further development of modern environmental and social work.
it is not certain that we want foreign state-owned or even dictatorial companies to whom we give maximum protection here at the expense of human rights and the environment.
investment agreements are not intended to achieve social objectives, but they should not prevent us from achieving social and environmental objectives either.
we are in favour of respect for human rights, including workers' rights, social and environmental standards and democratic principles, and of making these a permanent condition of trade agreements.
as shadow rapporteur, i have tabled amendments on behalf of the gue/ngl on origin labelling, compulsory labelling of animal products and ethical and environmental labelling.
if we do not make the necessary efforts at this stage to create a sustainable banking sector, sooner or later it will cause a burden on public finances that even the strongest countries will find it difficult to cope with.
many of us are outraged that europe, despite a wide public debate on the subject, is still dumping hazardous waste in poorer countries.
not only do we use products that wear out and destroy the environment, but we also neglect the products when we no longer want them.
instead, we dump hazardous waste that harms the health of innocent people, often children, and poisons the soil and water of other countries for generations to come.
the best thing, of course, as always, is that there is no hazardous waste.
since the ban on the export of hazardous waste is not working, i think we should be particularly pleased that we have strengthened legislation on waste containing electrical or electronic equipment (wees) by setting high collection targets.
as many have said, and the commission has also said, there is a need for some clarification and simplification of the actual rules governing the transport of toxic waste to developing countries, so that it will be easier for the police and other border controls to prevent the environmental crimes that the export of hazardous waste actually involves.
the main problem with the proposed climate and forest regulations is that forests are a key to the eu achieving its climate goals.
for example, it is very strange to propose binding sustainability criteria for a renewable resource such as forests, but not to have similar criteria for fossil fuels such as coal.
instead, i want to invest resources in research, education, information and innovation on how we can prevent the impact that climate change will have on our forests.
finally, the innovation union can be a really good tool in solving climate issues.
it is extremely important that we have a climate and environmental policy that is based on facts.
the same conditions apply to environmental policy as to economic policy, redistributive policy, development policy and industrial policy.
it is also of great value that we coordinate environmental statistics at european level.
this will make it easier to compare the effects of environmental policy across member states, and it will give us a better picture of which policies are actually working and which are not, and which may even be counterproductive.
i think one of the striking things we have experienced is that the mobility we can achieve via the framework programme is creating the special climate and the special pre-conditions for excellence.
of course we will have to make clear environmental demands in these free trade negotiations.
the new rules, as many have pointed out, only call on the member states to use mortgages to improve the environment, and it is therefore important that we, as mr sterckx said, here in the european parliament, repeatedly remind our governments of the importance of following these recommendations.
the idea is not that our drivers should pay for noise and environmental impact unless we also introduce measures to solve the problems, such as road treatment and other noise abatement measures.
we must continue to improve the environment and reduce carbon dioxide in europe, and it is therefore crucial to ensure that environmental taxes are actually used to reduce and eliminate the environmental problems that arise.
we will address environmental and climate challenges and a sustainable energy supply.
it addresses climate and environmental issues as part of all policy areas, the struggle for democracy, peace and freedom globally, and the critical need for both research, innovation and infrastructure.
despite all the wishes for an inclusive, sustainable and competitive europe, there is no way in the world to finance everything at once from the eu budget.
− we welcome the report's focus on the common challenges we face: climate and environmental issues, the fight for democracy, peace and freedom globally, and the critical need for both research, innovation and infrastructure.
although all the wishes for an inclusive, sustainable and competitive europe are shared, it is impossible to finance everything at once from the eu budget.
- when the european parliament voted on wednesday 8 june on investing in the future: a new multiannual financial framework for a competitive and sustainable europe for all, i chose to vote against.
in addition, the old member states do not take account of the needs of the new member states for new contracts, and the rights of investors are not balanced in any way by environmental, social and other legal requirements.
this includes the issues that you raised, commissioner, of security in respect of decommissioning and waste.
looking ahead, we should implement stricter safety standards than the international atomic energy agency recommendations and the rest of the world.
i also think that the wording is too vague when it comes to energy policy.
in fact, the criteria we set for climate and the environment must also apply to oil or gas imported from russia.
it's the climate, it's the biodiversity, it's the fertile waterways.
it is in agriculture and forestry that the best tools are found and it is the use of these environmental tools that the farmer should be paid for, and the farmer should be paid well for this!
the environmental services can't be paid for there.
we agree that we want the highest possible level of safety, and that of course also applies to nuclear waste, for which we will be responsible, regardless of the lifetime of the nuclear power plant, for ourselves and for many, many generations after us.
the waste must be managed in the best possible way and the eu directive must be designed to meet these objectives.
the question of the export of nuclear waste, which has already been mentioned by several speakers, is of particular importance.
of course, eu countries must continue to be able to conclude agreements with each other on waste, but we should not export to countries outside the eu.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
a regulatory framework that does not provide a reasonable margin for forward-looking investment and good growth cannot be sustainable in the long term.
we also do not agree that efforts to make the transition to more environmentally friendly and sustainable agriculture can only be undertaken without reducing the competitiveness of eu farmers.
the committee also calls for the commission to be given the right to adopt a decision on the application of the directive on the protection of the environment.
what a waste.
we asked the stakeholders to accept their shared responsibility – with regard to the environment and corporate social responsibility – and to continue to innovate as they are doing.
i am also pleased that hungary, despite the difficult circumstances, has skilfully and with conviction steered the energy dossiers, including such issues as nuclear safety – with stress tests following fukushima – transparency and integrity of energy markets – with the remit regulation – the council conclusions on energy efficiency and the energy road map.
following poland’s behaviour at the last environmental council, i am deeply worried that it is not taking the energy climate issues as seriously as it should and as hungary did.
they really welcome this to give the consumer the opportunity to make a choice that is better for the animals and for the environment.
but i want to be straightforward: there is one issue that worries us, and that is climate policy.
it is poland, as the eu presidency, which is responsible for whether this climate agreement is followed by something new or whether it runs into the sand, and that is no small thing.
the eu stands for ambitious and realistic climate goals.
the ultimate aim is, of course, to prevent disasters, but it is also a matter of linking crisis and employment policies with climate policy.
the call to you, mr prime minister, is to push forward the eu's climate policy and not to bury it, because this is a serious matter.
how could a single member state do something about climate policy?
they have already said that resource efficiency, recycling, urban mining are extremely important investments in jobs, growth and in the protection and care of our environment, but with innovation, with a modern mindset, with a modern approach as a tool.
we have the whole of northern europe, where there is a wealth of skilled technology, research, high-quality raw materials and a working environment which is also very good for those who work in this part of the industry.
as we europeans find ourselves in an increasingly globalised world, we face the dual challenge of securing european prosperity and fighting climate change.
over the coming decades we need to restructure the european economy in order to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth for the whole continent.
according to some estimates, investment needs for transport, energy, ict and other sectors will amount to eur 4 000 billion up to 2050. to achieve this, a secure supply of raw materials is the key to a future where europe leads the world in green technology.
the raw materials strategy needs to be connected – or more connected – to other important european policies, for example on industry, research, trade, transport and sustainable economic growth.
apart from being green and trade-oriented, the eu raw materials strategy must also ensure that both developed and developing countries can benefit from the sustainable supply of materials.
contrary to frequent assertions, europe is still rich in natural resources and, with its minerals, metals and forests, northern europe in particular has the potential to meet many of the eu’s raw material needs in a sustainable way, provided there is transport.
a functioning price mechanism determines whether we can have a functioning energy market.
a functioning energy market is the cornerstone of smart climate policy.
i want to make one thing very clear, however: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the detriment of the environment.
however, the energy production facing the consumers of the future will look different.
with the help of, among other things, the legislation we are voting on tomorrow, policy can contribute to an incentive structure that makes investments in smart energy infrastructure more profitable.
it will increase transparency in the energy market.
general and long-term rules of the game that contribute to a better and functioning market are necessary to achieve both economic growth and climate objectives.
here in the european parliament we often discuss energy poverty.
we're talking about energy supply and energy conversion.
in that sense, a weakly regulated energy market is as bad as a weakly regulated financial market.
i am not a big believer in the free market, which is very clear in the energy sector.
i am thinking of e-health, e-democracy, smart and efficient transport, smart metering for energy and smart grids.
i would like to thank mr caspary for bringing up all the issues that are important to us - human rights, labour law, social responsibility, the environment, climate, consumer protection, not least the protection of generics, and the right to non-protectionist safeguards against unfair competition and dumping.
then i wonder how the policy - it's even called growth - can be compatible with our climate ambitions?
show me an analysis, and show me that there has been some disconnect between global trade, growth, emissions and resource consumption.
i believe that trade can contribute to peace but of course more trade does not automatically result in a more peaceful environment.
in this context, it is clear that the commission must be very strict, very observant and active when there is competition or risk of competition based on lower climate and environmental ambitions leading to carbon leakage.
of course, we must also stand up for the principle of exempting sectors which are de facto exposed to carbon leakage, and apply that principle wisely.
this should not be interpreted as allowing european industry to escape its responsibility for overall climate policy.
furthermore, as a result of the committee’s amendments, the governor of the erbd for the union should now report annually to parliament on the promotion of the union’s objectives with regard to the eu’s external action policy, the europe 2020 strategy and the significant increase in transfer to renewable, energy-efficient technologies.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the taxation of energy products, which is a matter for the member states.
in a socially sustainable society, there is no double discrimination against women with disabilities.
in a socially sustainable society, women and men with disabilities enjoy a good quality of life and are not socially excluded.
however, current austerity policies are seriously hampering the prospects for achieving a socially sustainable society.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion.
in view of the eu's sustainable development objectives, the rules on public procurement must be amended to encourage all public actors to set high environmental, climate, animal welfare and social standards throughout the production process.
i am glad that this report seeks to broaden the perspective of what is economically sustainable.
but a low price also has its price, for example in terms of its impact on social and ecological sustainability.
life cycle analyses and a sustainability and gender dimension in procurement are therefore required.
production methods, environmental awareness, sustainability and animal welfare are very important criteria, but they should not provide an opportunity or excuse to discriminate against operators or suppliers from other european countries.
without active and strong social action, sustainable growth cannot be achieved.
a comprehensive and sustainable fiscal consolidation is necessary, because the debt crisis is also a fiscal crisis.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
now more than ever we need to invest in jobs and growth - research, development, climate and education.
there was a window of opportunity at the copenhagen climate summit, which many have already mentioned here.
our second task must be the comprehensive climate agreement after 2012. then, as one of the world's strongest and richest regions, despite the mistrust and the objections expressed in this debate, we must actually show that we are taking a leading role.
the truth is, if global warming continues at the rate it has for some time now, it will affect us, not just for a crisis, but for all eternity.
cohesion, energy and transport was the most error prone group of policy areas of european union spending.
europe today is in great need of strong and sustainable growth.
perhaps the most obvious are labour market and social policy, but also, of course, transport policy, climate change, cultural policy, education policy, etc.
it is one of the major causes of loss of biodiversity on the planet today, and the emptying of the world’s oceans of its living creatures is also degrading marine ecosystems so the oceans to a lesser extent are capable of doing their job as carbon sinks absorbing co2.
we, the eu, have signed up to a lot of international obligations to eradicate hunger, halt the loss of biodiversity and fight against climate change – and fighting against the very concrete threats to the ocean that international illegal fishing represents is one of the most evident steps that the eu can take to try to achieve all of these objectives.
i would like to thank the shadows, of course, for their excellent work and all the opinion-makers in the committee on development and the committee on the environment as well.
finally, this report also calls for the international oceans governance to be made a priority at the next world summit on sustainable development in rio – the rio+20 next year.
we've put all our energy into military force.
we are also convinced that the increase in eu support for croatia is not really a cost but an investment in human and democratic development, in a better environment and in better economic growth which will benefit all of europe.
the risk is that we will not be able to provide new resources for what is really needed: research and development, infrastructure, energy and climate change.
however, we would like to stress that additional funding for iter must not be at the expense of other existing research in the field of renewable energy sources.
europe has been an example for inclusive and sustainable development.
there are ways to reduce emissions, including from agriculture.
a climate of confidence is necessary to achieve complex negotiation like trialogues.
the ten-t should be launched rapidly to link transport systems, improve freight transport and significantly reduce climate emissions.
we should also dare to consider the idea of not just reducing co2 emissions by 20% in 20 years but going a little further.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.