i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr alejandro cercas, and all the others who have worked with such enthusiasm and energy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy efficiency of buildings is not compromised by the lack of energy saving in the community.
when the court of auditors' recently published special report reveals that eu investment in energy efficiency under cohesion policy has been set at an average payback period of 50 years, often many times longer than the lifetime of the refurbished components and buildings, it is clear once again that more efficiency is needed.
the significant changes in the economic policy environment mean that the targeted support needs to be increased.
mrs harms, you did not specifically refer to energy policy in cyprus and in europe.
can you say something about what cyprus could do for renewable energy?
the approaches such as mobility in the city centres, energy renovation of obsolete residential buildings, construction of new social housing, etc.
at the same time, cities should actively participate in development, for example in mobility in city centres, energy renovation, social housing.
the vicious circle of uncertainty, instability, poverty and poor governance can only be tackled successfully by a holistic approach to sustainable development of countries.
high technology in the agricultural sector, land scarcity and high demand (for example for biofuels), as well as aesthetic and sustainability requirements of the modern consumer have further promoted monocultures.
the fact that this has a massive impact on nature, especially biodiversity, has been evident for a long time.
while research into biological resources is welcome to maximise their use, the depletion of research contributors through product piracy is a challenge for the eu, as these practices are contrary to the eu's commitment to poverty reduction and biodiversity protection and to the principle of policy coherence for development enshrined in article 208 of the lisbon treaty.
the importance of biodiversity cannot be overstated, particularly in relation to poverty reduction, improving the world food situation, preserving biodiversity and as a response to climate change.
this is also, and above all, a sustainable way of becoming european, because you have seen that we can only solve the crises together and not each one by himself.
mr helmer has spoken of a waste of taxpayers' money.
i think that the real waste of taxpayers' money is a well-paid member of parliament who does not even have time to wait for the response he gets to his speech, ladies and gentlemen.
please take the helm with your fellow heads of government, and together, let us all row in the right direction, in a sustainable direction!
we are faced today with a climate of uncertainty, sometimes even of rejection.
the implementation of the european semester, sixpack, twopack, fiscal pact - all these are part of the necessary, sustainable, stronger coordination of public budgetary policies.
that would be very helpful, because youth unemployment is an enormous waste of economic resources.
- in principle, the sustainable management of fishery resources in the mediterranean should be encouraged.
although the legal component of this report is predominant, environmental aspects are also included: on the one hand, member states are encouraged to step up their efforts to implement the regulation so that the change to the common fisheries policy will allow a new regionalised framework to be established quickly.
the second point is that the commission is supporting the sustainability and conservation of resources in so far as it is to decide on the application of the ordinary legislative procedure.
the additional protocol on liability and compensation adopted in 2010 established rules on liability and compensation for damage to biodiversity caused by living modified organisms.
this additional protocol specifically addresses liability and compensation for damage caused by living modified organisms (such as the 2004 european environmental liability directive).
− the treaty of lisbon gave european energy policy its own legal basis in primary law for the first time.
this means that the objectives of 'security of supply' and 'economy of energy supply' can now also be pursued explicitly.
the eu's energy strategy is geared towards achieving three objectives in the long term.
the eu wants to tackle climate change, reduce the eu's external vulnerability due to its high dependence on fossil fuels, and promote growth and jobs through a competitive energy supply.
looking at the eu's overall energy mix, fossil fuels continue to account for the largest shares of the total: oil (36.9%), gas (24%) and coal (17.8%).
nuclear energy accounts for 14% and renewable energy for 7.1%.
i voted against the report because i believe that the individual member states should take greater care to ensure that energy is supplied autonomously.
this would not only have the great advantage of eliminating dependence on fossil fuels from crisis regions, but would also be the best way to protect the climate, since many member states, such as austria, can only do so if they rely more on renewable energy.
the needs of individual countries and citizens are taken into account as well as the requirements of environmental policies and the economy.
the emphasis on renewable energy, the adaptation of energy to the needs of individual regions and the well-considered financial approaches to support and cooperation between the union, member states and third countries are noteworthy.
stability bonds should, inter alia, ensure the sustainability of the budgetary position of the member states and provide liquid assets for investors.
in the explosive environment of new territorial disputes, this could all too easily lead to violence and even to the disintegration of iraq.
they look the other way when it comes to wages, health, working conditions or environmental protection.
that is why i have a specific question for the commission: how do you intend to comply with parliament's repeated requests and guarantee that imports from third countries are subject to the same production, social and environmental standards as eu products?
i would therefore like to reiterate my request and that of the european parliament: compulsory sustainability chapters must be integrated into trade agreements, linked to safeguard clauses.
equivalent production, social and environmental standards must be applied to imports from third countries in trade agreements.
what is the commission's position on the mandatory integration of sustainability chapters in trade agreements, as called for by the european parliament in its report of 27 september 2011?
i am clear that imports from third countries must be subject to the same production, environmental and social standards as eu products.
i therefore reiterate my support for a binding sustainability chapter in trade agreements, linked to a safeguard clause.
imports from third countries must be subject to equivalent production, social and environmental standards.
it will regain competitiveness by innovating through investment in research and development, new technologies and the environment.
sustainable methods should also be applied and the eu should be more vigilant in controlling imports from third countries to avoid unfair competition with local products.
a functioning internal market is built on the participation of all people; the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
i saw you there as a true champion of biodiversity and biodiversity.
i can therefore agree with you, commissioner, that i too would like to see you in many more meetings in this house, as would the commissioner for health, because i believe that we as european parliamentarians have committed ourselves to a principle, namely to fight for the quality of life of people and animals in this europe, in this world, and we can only do that if we take environmental and health aspects into account in all areas.
we tend to have these short-term economic interests in mind, without thinking long-term in terms of the ecosystem services that we need as a humanity to survive.
it is a fact that the best way to protect endangered species is to make sustainable use of the fauna and flora, to make sustainable use of tourism, such as phototourism on the one hand, but also hunting tourism.
the local people are there to protect their biodiversity.
i therefore urge you to respect this and to work towards ensuring that sustainable use is best achieved through hunting and phototourism.
social responsibility and sustainability should be taken for granted by companies.
but environmental declarations and social information from companies must also be transparent.
sustainable management and social responsibility are different from promises in brochures that are not meant to be kept.
we are calling for greater transparency and disclosure, not just financial disclosure, but also for you, commissioner, to legislate on reporting on compliance with social and environmental standards.
i understand the social responsibility of enterprises, as the commission has already said, as part of the framework of values with which we want to create a sustainable economic system in europe.
it is the small and mediumsized enterprises in particular which demonstrate their social responsibility: to their employees, to their environment and to society.
i think we can now dispute that noise is a health and environmental problem.
but unfortunately, dear joseph, there are people in your faction who poison the climate again and again.
− the aim of the common fisheries policy is to ensure that fisheries and aquaculture are conducted in a long-term, sustainable and ecological manner and that food supplies are guaranteed.
the objective is to return fish stocks to levels that can produce the maximum sustainable yield by 2015 at the latest and by 2020 at the latest.
in order to ensure sustainability and planning certainty, long-term plans should also regulate the management of fish stocks.
- the keyword in this vote is sustainability.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
but more importantly, we need to be clear about what we want for 2015, for the new global climate regime that is coming in 2020. that is the question of substance which we must settle.
the central problem that we have is that the issue of climate change is clearly losing relevance in public perception, in public debate.
it is also pointless to paint these horrors on the wall when citizens are on the streets complaining about rising energy costs, when they are complaining about unemployment, and we are enacting policies that go in that direction, and they feel that we are putting them at risk.
in particular the main function of an interconnected network of court coordinators would be to enable judges to readily confer on their day-to-day work with their counterparts in other member states on matters such as the interpretation of the applicable european law in a secure, digital environment.
this includes the legal coordinators, and this includes electronic tools that must be developed in a secure environment.
we have seen it in the emissions trading system, and estimates suggest that vat fraud in europe is roughly equivalent to the european budget.
i did not vote for the report because it is doubtful whether an artificial change in the social structure and the environment will actually make life more pleasant for the elderly.
this means that the voluntary contribution of the economy to sustainable development must go beyond the legal requirements.
social responsibility is essentially three-fold: responsible business practices, environmental aspects and relations with employees.
corporate social responsibility is the commitment of companies to the environment and to society.
the development of trans-european energy infrastructure should be promoted.
the development of infrastructure is particularly necessary through the use of renewable energies, as these provide for extreme peak power in the grid that must be covered.
so wind farms are of little use to us if the energy cannot be transported on windy days.
question for the commissioner: the commission is not we have also made a success story here in europe in reducing co2 emissions.
can you imagine that instead of the ets system we would introduce a so-called carbon footprint tax, whereby for those products and services that are produced with very little carbon footprint, we would reduce the value added tax for consumers accordingly, in order to make energy more affordable?
if the target is to achieve an 80% emission reduction by 2050, with transport likely to achieve only 60%, energy production would have to be virtually co2-free.
so it's not surprising that renewables are not doing well in the energy roadmap.
last but not least, in recent years there has been a lot of pressure at eu level to promote renewable energy.
without pressure, european energy companies alone are unlikely to raise the estimated 10 to 25 billion euros for retrofitting.
if we really do a full cost calculation - taking into account really all costs - then it will become clear that nuclear energy is a very expensive energy.
then i'm sure we can rely on other forms of energy and not on this dangerous technology.
it is also clear that any energy technology has an impact.
but we must minimize the impact as much as possible, and nuclear energy is hardly possible!
we must therefore draw the only correct conclusion: a gradual phase-out of nuclear energy throughout europe and a reorientation of euratom towards renewable energy sources.
it is precisely because of the incalculable risks of serious accidents and the lack of sustainability that leading nuclear nations such as germany have finally decided to withdraw.
basically, what we have to say is that the important thing in climate policy is that we spread the burden across all sectors.
it is also important that we are aware that we are still at the beginning of climate policy.
the fact is that europe has taken a leading role in climate change policy.
but it's also a fact that other parts of the world have more greenhouse gas emissions, but they're making efforts.
emissions trading is a misconception.
for example, given the current decline in the price of co2 allowances and the current low price of coal, it is worthwhile to supply climate-damaging coal-fired power.
the automotive industry is also considering ways to prevent fines for emissions from suvs.
if we are to find solutions to climate change, then at least we must put an end to emissions fraud.
the success of the allowance trade, whose hidden development aid does not reduce overall emissions but at best redistributes them, remains questionable, even if all possibilities of fraud are eliminated.
the fact that the annual expenditure on allowances is ten times the amount of the support for renewable energy is a source of distortion.
in the long term, therefore, emissions trading must be either fundamentally restructured or completely abolished.
− the development of transeuropean energy infrastructure should be promoted.
the development of infrastructure is particularly necessary because of the use of renewable energies.
so wind farms are of little use to us if the energy cannot be transported on windy days.
- in my view, it is still untenable that nuclear power is accepted cheaply in the energy mix.
nor is there any explicit reference to abolishing nuclear power and building up the energy mix without the risk factor of nuclear power.
− the extension of vienna airport was subject to an environmental impact assessment (eia) by the responsible federal ministry.
as a result, several complaints have been lodged with the eu commission since 2006, claiming that these environmental impact assessments do not meet the european standard and that the commission should respond by asking the operators' organisation for further eias.
- the proposals for the harmonisation of accounting standards mentioned by the rapporteur are very welcome, as they will make the management of greenhouse gas emissions and their reduction more transparent and fair.
the collection, analysis and provision of sufficient and comprehensive data on greenhouse gas emissions is an important basis for addressing climate change.
this voluntary system will not, however, be sufficient to improve consumer protection in a sustainable way.
the report also calls for the adoption of a new policy on the environment, which will be based on the principle of subsidiarity.
− to date, eu environmental policy has failed in many areas or has proved to be a toothless paper tiger.
for example, the success of the trading of allowances, which by concealing aid does not reduce overall emissions but at best redistributes them, even if all possibilities of fraud are eliminated, remains questionable.
the fact that the annual expenditure on allowances is ten times the amount of the support for renewable energy is a source of distortion.
in the long term, therefore, emissions trading must be either fundamentally restructured or completely abolished.
the environmental commitments often do not go beyond the paper on which they are written, given the billions of dollars of subsidies that are used to the contrary.
− full implementation of eu environmental legislation can create jobs and save a lot (according to studies, €72 billion per year).
poor application is harmful to the environment and human health, causes insecurity for businesses, affects the internal market and causes additional administrative burden and costs.
the aim of eu legislation is to tackle the causes of environmental damage.
this concerns provisions on the legal and social responsibility of enterprises, which commit enterprises to open up to the strategy for sustainable development.
a high level of environmental protection is one of the eu's fundamental objectives and brings direct benefits to citizens, such as better living conditions through better air quality, less noise and fewer health problems.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
but in some areas, i fear they are not going far enough to make this change sustainable.
one of the key requirements in this context is the inclusion of the greening programmes, so that there is no entry barrier for the agri-environment programme and organic farms or natura 2000 farms.
the agri-environment programmes go much further in the environmental field than the three greening proposals.
the eligibility of agri-environmental and bio-greening programmes would simplify administration and avoid disadvantages for those farms which have voluntarily opted for additional services.
cooperation, regional cycles and sustainable investment are other priorities and thus also important areas of rural development.
waste of money such as the €300,000 spent on a cocktail bar in 2009 or the €790,000 spent on the internet layout of a directorate-general needs to be critically examined.
we are also in favour of making the rapporteur's report a majority report and of a formula which will be sustainable in the future.
we need to continue to build on this and we should support partner countries in making the right choices to become more sustainable.
to achieve this sustainability, it is necessary to provide tools that enable countries themselves, but also ngos, to identify problem areas and address improvements.
the amendments proposed by the rapporteur to the commission's proposal extend the considerations on improving statistics, inter alia, in terms of transparency, environmental aspects and user needs.
- the vote on the cap reform is a balancing act between production and environmental protection.
the european parliament has today expressed its support for the idea of making agriculture even more ecological in the future.
these include a ban on the conversion of permanent grassland, diversification of crop production to three crops and the reservation of 7% of the area as 'ecological priority area'.
i am also in favour of simplifying and simplifying the greening requirements: the 'ecological priority areas' are to be introduced gradually and areas are to be used in a region in the common interest of the environment.
it is important that the ecological priority areas continue to be suitable for cultivation.
− one of the epp's key demands in designing rural development programmes is to take the agri-environment and organic programmes into account for greening, so that there is no barrier to entry for these programmes.
these second pillar programmes go much further in the environmental field than the three greening proposals.
the agriculture committee proposed that the 'green by definition' credit be provided through equivalence lists, which allow the commission to establish that an equivalent environmental performance is achieved by another measure.
the agricultural reform was intended to provide an incentive for greater greening, not to remove the need to comply with strict ecological rules.
− in principle, the objective of reducing co2 emissions is clearly stated in this report, and a number of measures have been mentioned.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one.
the energy supply of the future must go a path without nuclear power.
as long as the eu, which is responsible for 15% of global carbon dioxide emissions, is the only one willing to lead by example, while the big climate sinners india, china, south korea, japan, australia and the us have little concern for the environment, eu trade in allowances is at best a nice gesture.
as long as the annual expenditure on allowances is ten times the amount of aid for renewable energy, the system itself will remain a flawed design in my view!
written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr peter liese, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on a temporary derogation from directive 2003/87/ec of the european parliament and of the council establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the community (com (2012) 0697 c7-0385/2012 2012/0328 (cod)) (a7-0060/2013).
we all hope that what is on the table will really be in line with our intentions, namely to include air transport, which is growing so rapidly, in international climate policy.
i personally find it regrettable - both in the previous debate and now - that the member states are not prepared to commit these funds they receive from emissions trading.
the commission is now making a statement that it wants to look at the member states' fingers, but the member states should finally be fair enough to tie up the money from emissions trading.
to date, emissions trading has failed to significantly reduce co2 emissions or to stimulate the development of environmentally friendly technologies.
the present structure is therefore a disservice to those european companies which have been at the forefront of environmental protection for decades.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the system must finally be redesigned to provide real incentives for low-carbon innovation.
three points: an integrated energy market - we can still talk about whether this will solve the crisis.
- i voted against rejecting the backloading proposal for three reasons: i am convinced that a functioning emissions trading system is a tool, albeit one that deserves improvement, for achieving the energy transition needed to meet climate goals.
- in the interests of jobs in austrian industry, i abstained on the report on the timetable for auctioning greenhouse gas emission allowances in the vote on am 20. the principle is, of course, to keep co2 emissions as low as possible, but it is questionable whether emissions trading is the appropriate control instrument.
- in the interests of jobs in austrian industry, i abstained on the report on the timetable for auctioning greenhouse gas emission allowances in the vote on am 20. the principle is to keep co2 emissions as low as possible, but it is questionable whether emissions trading is the appropriate control instrument.
- in the interests of jobs in austrian industry, i abstained from voting on the report on the timetable for auctioning greenhouse gas emission allowances in the vote on the 20th report.
the principle is, of course, to keep co2 emissions as low as possible, but it is questionable whether emissions trading is the appropriate control instrument.
this report is about the timing of auctions of greenhouse gas emission allowances.
the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) is an important tool for cost-effectively reducing industrial emissions in the eu.
since the start of the eu ets, emissions have been declining and are currently marked by severe imbalances.
therefore, this does not promote sustainable scientific and technological innovation.
- from a purely ecological point of view, i cannot in principle agree with this proposal to suspend the eu ets for certain areas, even if only for a period of one year.
trade and investment are instruments to achieve the objectives, but cannot be the only determinants of growth and sustainable development, as structural deficits, such as in infrastructure, impede full access to world trade.
nationalist slogans, both foreign and domestic, are creating a climate which is increasingly distancing hungary from europe.
i have rejected this report on the discharge of the european parliament in protest at the waste of taxpayers' money.
costs for energy consumption, parliamentary assistance, the fitting-out of premises and other reserves were considerably decreased, which led to a direct decrease in the ep’s annual administrative costs and, as a consequence, to a decrease in the final expenditures of the ep for one financial year.
the danger of further bankruptcy and waste of taxpayers' money is therefore a factor which has led me to vote against the proposal for a regulation.
it has the term ‘ecological country’ in its constitution, but i think it still needs to work more on, for example, renewable energy and energy efficiency, and also on tourism to preserve the beauty in its country.
for example, the spokesman for global 2000 austria writes to me that one year after the start of preparations for the citizens' initiative 'my voice against nuclear energy', the efforts are being suspended again because of insufficient conditions.
according to this report, because of the diversity of hazardous substances on board a ship, any ship leaving the eu for scrapping is considered hazardous waste and can therefore only be legally scrapped in oecd countries.
according to the eu impact assessment, over 90% of eu-flagged vessels were scrapped outside the oecd in 2009. this has serious consequences for both people and the environment in south-east asian countries.
the energy sector will be the main burden, and it is here that the major changes will take place.
it is therefore important to maintain these three objectives, because we do not have cost neutrality in the various energy sources at present.
the fact is that renewable energy in particular is already very diverse and that there are various compensatory mechanisms.
i would like to make three points: there is no denying that renewable energy is a booster for the economy and the trend is growing.
we are creating sustainable jobs, we are supporting the sme sector and we can give a new perspective to young people who are particularly interested in new technologies.
without this cooperation and, in my view, unconditional compliance with existing environmental legislation, we shall not get very far in the short and long term.
no one will seriously doubt the benefits of using renewable energy sources, but the measures and their consequences will be the ones with which the eu is making an impact.
energy must also remain affordable, both for citizens and for industry.
the following principles are therefore essential: no zigzagging in energy policy, laying down and observing the rules of the game, no further expansion of taxation.
renewable energy is making an important contribution to a more independent and low-emission energy supply in europe.
europe is a pioneer in the development of renewable energy technologies, which should be further developed.
the gradual shift to renewable energy sources must, however, be carried out in a way that does not affect the competitiveness of european industry and businesses.
international agreements should be concluded which also commit the usa, china and other industrialized countries to increase the use of renewable energy.
the principle is that energy which is not consumed in europe, for example in the form of gas or oil, is consumed elsewhere.
the right of each member state to choose its own energy sources must not lead to eu countries pushing for nuclear power and selling cheap nuclear power to countries with high shares of expensive renewable energy.
accidents - whether tanker accidents or sinking oil platforms - are more spectacular, with monstrous oil carpets that show off oil pollution, but they are not responsible for the bulk of oil pollution.
so when we talk about the safety of offshore oil production sites, we should also be thinking about reducing the environmental impact of the normal operation of oil production and production facilities.
so this concerns energy.
again, the council will be talking about energy, but this parliament has been talking to the formal energy community for years already.
the commission president is right: we have to invest publicly and privately in order to make the energy market and the energy community workable.
whatever you do, consider the environmental question, because we are much more concerned about the environmental damage it could cause.
i know it is not the council's top priority, but many of the current discussions about europe relate to youth unemployment and investment against youth unemployment, which may include energy policy.
a word about energy: low carbon energy that means nuclear power included.
bilateral air transport agreements facilitate the solution of common problems, for example in the fields of safety and environmental protection.
the target company should act in a sustainable and long-term manner in the interests of the european economy as a whole and in particular in the interests of its employees and stakeholders.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
sustainable regeneration of former industrial regions is very costly, so eu public cohesion policy funds must play an important role.
and while we are talking about the safety of offshore oil production sites, we should also be thinking about reducing the environmental impact of the normal operation of oil production and production facilities.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat pollution.
− as renewable energies make an important contribution to a more independent and low-emission energy supply in europe, their share needs to be progressively increased.
the european leadership in the development of renewable energy technologies should be further developed.
international agreements should be concluded which also commit the usa, china and other industrialized countries to increase the use of renewable energy.
the energy transition must also be financially viable for small and medium-sized enterprises.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of renewable energy sources, in particular nuclear power stations, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of renewable energy sources.
- the rapporteur has dealt with the complex issue of the combination of renewable energy sources and the european internal market in a very nuanced way.
it clearly identifies the benefits, explains the challenges and sets ambitious targets for the integration of renewable energy in the internal market.
in addition to the positive effects of these objectives, the rapporteur has also taken account of the interests of other areas: for example, it emphasizes food security in parallel with the use of biomass as an energy source, or it explicitly includes the situation of agriculture, which may change significantly as the share of biomass increases.
acceleration of energy infrastructure projects, expansion of hydroelectric storage in different countries) makes it impossible to agree with the report as a whole.
a sustainable pension system is one of the most important tools for redistribution and for combating old age poverty.
− the report highlights the need, in the current difficult economic environment, to set the right fiscal priorities that stabilise or stimulate demand in the long term or provide incentives for research and development.
− i voted in favour of the report because in my opinion the tax systems in europe should encourage, not discourage, the business environment.
we have to help european countries to ‘get back on track’, and we have to have tax policies, directives and rules that help the business environment meet the challenges and objectives set out by the eu 2020 strategy.
among other things, investor confidence will be rebuilt, fostering economic growth and new employment opportunities, and financing methods and loans will strengthen, which will translate into better and more transparent credit availability for the business environment.
it is a very sensitive area, and yet it is exposed to extremely high pressures - particularly from traffic and pollution and the like.
but we must also do our utmost in the field of biodiversity, environmental protection and so on, so that the alps can continue to play the role they are supposed to play.
it is a habitat where, thank god, biodiversity still exists in large areas, but which is of course threatened by the demands of tourism, by the demands of transport, by the demands of energy.
it is committed to the objectives of preserving cultural diversity, sustainable management, protection of the sensitive alpine region and protection of social standards in this area.
but there can be no concepts in the direction of tourism, transport, energy without the interaction with the surrounding regions or with the cities.
in recent decades, social developments, as well as environmental developments, have led to a decline in the number of farmers and a decline in the use of the alpine regions for agriculture.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the alpine regions are protected from the effects of the climate change.
so, in order to continue to protect the landscape and the environment, especially in times of climate change, we must maintain and promote the agricultural settlement of the alps and counteract the tendency to move to the countryside.
the protection of human rights, the improvement of labour, production and environmental standards and the creation of wealth are tasks that must be undertaken.
a label that guarantees sustainable production, fair wages and safety at work is as ambitious a step as the signed agreement itself.
written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the report by mr horst schnellhardt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the non-commercial movement of pet animals (com ((2012) 0089 - c7-0060/2012 - 2012/0039 ((cod)) (a7-0371/2012) and the report by mr horst schnellhardt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 92/65/eec as regards animal health conditions governing trade in and imports into the union of dogs, cats and ferrets (com ((2012) 00907) - c7-0061/2012 - 2012/0040 (cod)) (a7-036/2012).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are not used to the detriment of the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
it should be noted that isds procedures are possible under the energy charter even without this regulation.
corporate social responsibility, responsible and sustainable trade and investment can help to combat poverty and ensure that a wide range of people benefit from the measures.
at the same time, attention must be paid to the protection of the environment, which is likely to suffer from development.
− in my view, a long-term strategy promoting sustainable growth in our ‘european alpine region’ has only positive aspects at economic, environmental, social and cultural level.
− this report looks at european consumer protection policy for the period 2014-2020. ensuring food safety, health, energy security, financial and online products should be a top priority on the european consumer agenda.
the consumer agenda is necessary to reduce inequalities between consumers and to contribute to a low-carbon economy.
the eu has a long history of food waste, and the eu is currently producing more than 90 million tonnes of food each year.
for reasons of sustainability and environmental protection, this project should be approved.
the commission's approach is based on a holistic approach, which takes into account not only the mafia structures themselves but also the whole environment of organised crime.
construction, renovation of buildings, efficient energy industry – green jobs) and creating new (local) employment opportunities.
i agree with commissioner barnier that environmental and social responsibility should not only apply to these industries but to all the major economic operators, because only in this way can we actively combat tax evasion and corruption in the long term.
i think it is an absolute anachronism, which is entirely in the interests of the french state, that we are still travelling back and forth between brussels and strasbourg with a huge travelling circus, which is incredibly expensive and a complete waste.
i am a supporter of sustainable management of our oceans and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
− the fight against and prevention of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is of key importance to protect and preserve marine biodiversity.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new community guidelines on the environment.
the strong pressure on public budgets to save is increasingly crowding out long-term investment for sustainable growth, employment, social cohesion and economic growth.
only a social investment package can create sustainable economic growth.
the eurozone as it stands today is not sustainable.
however, the most effective way of preventing unemployment in the long term is to promote sustainable economic growth.
i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the extension of the scope of technical roadside inspections to commercial vehicles of less than 3,5 tonnes may be justified, given that these vehicles also cause damage to other road users and the environment if they are poorly maintained.
and third, it wants to achieve good ecological and chemical status for our waters by 2015. and now we have this subsidiary directive which we have worked out together and which sets out specific chemical quality standards so that this good chemical condition can be achieved.
unfortunately, research shows that there is still a long way to go in terms of both ecological and chemical good health, especially of surface waters.
the environmental quality standards now proposed in this new directive concern 15 new substances.
we have already identified 33 priority substances in previous directives from 2003 and 2008 which are considered to be particularly hazardous to the aquatic environment and to humans.
so it is not just about providing clean water for people, for our fellow citizens, but also about actually looking at the impact of various chemicals that are classified as hazardous on the natural environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new substances.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
the vote will take place on tuesday, 2 july 2013, at 12.00 p.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the report by mrs patrizia toia, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the contribution of cooperatives to overcoming the crisis (2012/2321 (ini)) (a7-0222/2013).
if i look at it in detail, i have to say that this report asks for too much, namely for too much regulation, although it has to be noted very positively that there are cooperatives which are active in the field of renewable energy.
they should be strongly supported, especially in view of the 2020 priorities defined in the renewable energy sources directive of 2009.
the debate is closed.
the vote will take place on tuesday, 2 july 2013, at 12.00 p.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr paolo bartolozzi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on innovation for sustainable growth: a bioeconomy for europe (com (2012) 0060 (ini)) (a7-0201/2013).
we are facing an increase in the demand for food and energy.
for us in europe, this means finding sustainable options.
it promotes sustainability and ensures rural development that reduces greenhouse gases.
many agencies are unnecessary, waste a lot of money and have no real use.
the aim is to ensure that the parties to the vienna convention ratify or conclude the 1997 protocol, which represents a significant step forward in terms of its content, namely specific rules on civil liability in the field of nuclear energy.
the eu must defend european interests and standards in labour and environmental standards, air passenger rights and compliance with european regulations.
the aim of this proposal is to promote and strengthen the system of technical surveillance of motor vehicles for road safety and environmental protection.
- the extension of the scope of technical roadside inspections to commercial vehicles of less than 3.5 tonnes may be appropriate, given that these vehicles, if poorly maintained, also harm other road users and the environment.
the aim is to improve road safety, environmental protection and a level playing field.
the provisions on road and traffic safety inspection are designed to improve road safety and environmental protection.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat pollution of our waters.
whether it's overfishing or the environmental impact of offshore installations, there are no good concepts or they're simply not feasible because they're not controllable.
the use and expansion of offshore wind energy is also to be welcomed.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
it also seems appropriate to promote coastal and maritime tourism, taking into account sustainability and environmental obligations.
− cooperatives not only fulfil basic tasks of general interest, but they are also locally rooted, safeguard jobs and stimulate economic, social and sustainable innovation.
it is also in the interests of the environment to promote renewable energy from the bottom up, a process in which the cooperatives take a leading role.
− given the importance of sustainability, particularly in the food and energy sectors, the eu is forced to act.
the bioeconomy is a suitable method for optimising the production cycle and at the same time reducing greenhouse gases.
what your government has been doing with the changes to the constitution and your activities is creating an environment of fear for people from minorities.
the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has recently published a report on the implementation of the new rules on the environment.
the emissions trading system (ets) involves the auctioning of emission allowances, known as allowances.
the basic idea is that certain companies can only emit as much carbon dioxide as they have a right to, or they have to buy a right from a more economical company on an exchange.
the eu-wide scheme, introduced in 2005, is designed to reduce emissions from production.
since relatively little has been done in the field of renewable energy since the introduction of the emission allowances, and at the same time there has been an imbalance, with some countries complying with the requirements, but others still having very high co2 emissions, i voted against.
it should also be noted that the certificate system is a threat to jobs in europe if only europeans adhere to climate protection standards.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
since the often dramatic impacts of natural disasters are due to human-induced activities such as sustainable deforestation, intensive agriculture, large-scale construction projects, urbanisation and sealing of land along rivers, etc., the report calls for greater emphasis on sustainable land use policies in the future.
i have to say, madam president, we all know that waste and mismanagement are common in state enterprises, and not just in southern states like greece.
so what we've been suspecting since the bug scandal of 2003, we now know for sure: the european union has also been involved in a number of other international agreements, including the international atomic energy agency (iaea) and the international atomic energy agency (iaea).
i would also like to mention that it would be great if georgia used the eu money not just for economic adjustments, but also for ecological transformation, for example investment in renewables and energy efficiency, which is also important for economic renewal.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
i would like to make a request to postpone the zanoni report on the environmental impact assessment, which was referred back to this house last week because we believe that it can be better dealt with at the october i plenary.
i do not deny that the proposal also includes multiple invoicing for waste products.
the use of renewable energy sources only makes sense in my view if there is no damage to the environment or if the final result is a positive ecological balance.
the environmental impact of nuclear-powered electric cars, for example, is questionable.
the increase in the share of biofuels should take account of climate protection, but a number of factors seem not to have been taken into account.
europe is currently a net importer of foodstuffs, so the use of agricultural land for energy production should be carefully considered and thought out.
in the context of environmental and climate protection, renewable energy sources are the central pillar of a renewable electricity system.
the cost of eco-energy machines is usually much higher than that of fossil-fuel plants in the comparable range of performance.
written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mr mojca kleva kekuš on the implementation and impact of energy efficiency measures under cohesion policy (2013/2038 (ini)) (a7-0271/2013).
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the european union has created a market-based instrument in its fight against climate change - the european emissions trading system.
the ets market is structured in such a way that approximately 7% of the participants are responsible for 80% of emissions and approximately half of the allowances are used by, say, 20 companies.
it also extends the legal framework to all financial instruments, including carbon credits.
as reducing co2 emissions is a major objective for many eu member states, a functioning emissions trading market must be ensured.
this is in contrast to a future-oriented industrial policy which takes environmental protection more seriously.
that is why i am pleased that this report is the first to define insider dealing at european level and to extend the concept of market manipulation to include collusion and price fixing in such important areas as exchange rate markets and energy and oil and gas commodity markets.
− all the eu's energy policy considerations and actions, such as privatisation and liberalisation of the energy market, have so far failed to deliver the promised cost reductions for consumers.
the internal energy market is a major potential for vat fraud.
the gaps in energy trading must be closed and the rules changed so that the customer actually has a chance to benefit from lower prices on the wholesale market.
− the assessment of the baseline situation is correct in the legislative proposal: reducing the eu's energy consumption is of far-reaching importance.
it is also foreseeable that the eu's rather ambitious target of reducing overall energy consumption by 20% by 2020 will not be achieved under the current trend.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the energy sector.
the legislative proposal now presented a number of practical measures to reduce such types of waste in day-to-day operations.
we have to fight poverty and youth unemployment, ensure data security, increase competitiveness, respond to globalisation and tackle environmental and climate change.
we do not want lotteries to win a temporary job: we want a european employment policy to get permanent jobs, sustainable jobs.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
this is the case when the crop can be kept in the same order as in the case of rapeseed or when the waste product can be used to produce fodder.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
certain environmental activists in parliament first wanted a high percentage, now everything is supposed to be different.
− the eia directive is an important instrument for protecting the environment and biodiversity in the european union and is to be adapted and renewed to meet current challenges through amendment.
this is a waste of billions on short-term numbers.
another challenge will be to cope with and adjust to technological change, environmental, economic and financial problems, increasing but also ageing populations, and many others including migration.
the commission has submitted a proposal for an amendment of directive 2011/92 on the assessment of certain public and private projects on the environment.
this proposal has broad support - it has been supported by the committee on petitions and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety - and i now expect that the co-legislators can conclude the negotiations as quickly as possible.
financing methods and loans will strengthen, translated into better and more transparent credit availability for the business environment; cash and credit flow will increase as well having a direct effect on companies (institutions, corporate and smes) activity and monetary transmission and transfer will improve.
− this report aims to achieve sustainable optimisation and legal certainty by introducing clear definitions and enhancing transparency.
it is very welcome that all this should be done on the basis of the nagoya protocol, an international environmental agreement under the un convention on biological diversity.
the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european environment agency.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
as mr florenz has already said, we in the epp are clearly committed to the measures adopted at european union level to protect the climate: the three objectives, the 2020 objectives.
i think we all agree that climate change is one of the biggest challenges facing humanity.
but let's not forget that we only account for about 10% of global emissions, and only collective action makes sense.
that is why we should now focus our full attention on these joint negotiations in 2015 and, above all, on the report already under preparation: 2030 energy and climate action together.
it is important that we then set the right framework after 2020 to make our economy, our continent more efficient and above all to pave the way for renewable energy.
it must be clear to everyone that if europe is to continue to succeed, we must rely more on renewable energy, we must rely more on energy efficiency.
the measures taken so far have not been sufficient to reduce co2 emissions as planned.
and it is hardly possible to distinguish between normal business investments and those aimed at improving energy efficiency and climate protection.
the fact is that the eu's emissions trading system, which uses the carbon price to encourage investment in low-carbon technologies, is not working well.
at best, the european ets cannot provide any incentives for investment in efforts to reduce co2 emissions.
at worst, it will only encourage relocation to low-wage countries where environmental protection is a foreign word.
the temporary withdrawal of allowances from the market so-called backloading in turn overrides the market mechanisms underlying the emissions trading system.
as long as the real big environmental sinners like the us and many emerging countries are left out, we need not be surprised by the ets crisis.
instead of trading in carbon credits, which is a hidden development aid, and redistributing total emissions, and converting nuclear power plants into climate-friendly plants, we need to promote renewable energy more.
when one considers that the fishing agreements with third countries are aimed at putting a strain on european fishing fleets, that the state of the stocks concerned is at best secondary, if not sufficiently taken into account, and that compliance with fishing quotas is rarely or hardly controlled, it becomes clear that the eu is mostly trying to wrap itself in fisheries agreements as an ecological cloak.
they have been encouraged by their environment, but they are also being seduced.
it is one of the great advances here in europe that we really have an environmental policy - and a climate policy, because the commissioner is sitting here - who, thank god, has shown progress.
we all know that humans are part of an ecosystem.
this is why this environmental impact assessment tool is so important.
as regards shale gas - i know that this is of particular interest to our polish colleagues - we are in favour of the introduction of an eia from the exploration phase onwards, because from this stage onwards there will be environmental impacts.
at this point the union and member states should concentrate their strategies on long-term investments in smart, sustainable and economic growth projects.
− this report aims to provide a long-term fisheries strategy for the western and central pacific region, thus contributing to the promotion of sustainable use of fisheries resources by promoting the socioeconomic development of the region through adaptation to climate change and regional circumstances.
we need to make a major contribution to sustainable fisheries policy and to harmonise the relevant rules and agreements at international level so that future generations can also have access to sufficient and healthy resources.
we must also be able to enforce our environmental standards.
we are a country or something that is very strongly oriented towards human rights, towards social standards, towards environmental protection.
for example, public services must be excluded from the negotiations, restrictions must also be imposed in sectors where there is a legitimate public interest, and of course - very important and already mentioned today - we want to ensure that important european social, environmental and data protection standards are respected.
chinese investment is fine and dandy, but certainly not with social and environmental dumping in europe!
to cover the latter in a comprehensive way, the agreement should include binding clauses on social and environmental standards, the protection of european public services, intellectual property rights and data protection.
the harmonization of environmental standards is welcome in that it avoids the need for manufacturers to comply with different standards for different markets and thus improves competition.
we believe that this is important and necessary, because we have long recognized that research and technological development, education and training, youth employment, energy, entrepreneurship, etc.
cadmium is a highly toxic substance which affects and damages not only the environment but also the human body.
unfortunately, this has also had negative effects on people and the environment.
this is particularly important because button cells are often not disposed of via the special waste and are therefore particularly harmful to the environment.
the use of this metal is not only harmful to man but also to the environment.
health and environmental protection are very important to me; i therefore voted in favour of this important directive, even though the ultimate aim must be an absolute ban on the use of cadmium.
the aim of this report is to protect the interests of consumers and businesses, while at the same time protecting the environment and human health.
i would like to send a message in advance that the epp is clearly committed to climate protection.
these climate conferences have a special dynamic and they deal with a subject which has a special significance for all mankind.
however, we should be very careful about words like 'success' and 'no success' that are very often given to individual climate conferences.
if we look at the big competitors around the world, like the united states and china, we see that they're making great progress in reducing carbon emissions without having such a climate agreement.
it is therefore also worthwhile to consider how we can put our european economy on this path: as much energy efficiency as possible, as much renewable energy as possible and as much co2 savings as possible.
the fact is that the united states has now saved 200 million tons without having a climate agreement.
innovative approaches, including at these climate conferences, are key to success here as well.
i think with the three goals that we have now, and as we hope to have in the future, we will get those goals, so that means higher energy efficiency and also a lot more renewable energy.
i firmly believe that we need to drive these changes in the energy system.
only with an ets, with a huge carbon price, you're not going to get that because it's too one-sided.
i have to say, madam president, the basic strategic objectives of eu climate policy are quite decent and, to a large extent, sincere.
a new climate study proves what we've been seeing around the world for years: human action is based mainly on short-term incentives, and vague prospects for the benefit of future generations are not sufficient motivation.
in this context, climate-friendly technology and basic financial incentives for its development, use and export should be given greater prominence.
so material gain here and now can also be a major catalyst for climate change.
in particular, the recycling of ships under european flags should not be a burden on the environment or the economy.
− this report focuses on the approaches and the sustainable prevention of corruption.
these objectives and the sustainability of the report make it a positive report.
the emff must become an instrument to promote sustainable fish stocks and thus provide european fishermen with a long-term livelihood and career prospects!
peaceful protest in the name of the environment is not a crime and certainly not piracy.
this is all bullshit, this is an attempt to criminalize people, to lock them up, to put them in jail for years, just because they have paid attention to the fact that the environment on this planet must be protected and not exploited for decades.
i am also glad that mr ulmer has already indicated that he is in favour of dealing with the whole environmental aspect in a separate directive.
it is not easy today for the commissioner responsible for the environment to make progressive proposals.
however, i am convinced that this programme is a step in the right direction, because we must be clear: the environment action programme is not something on the fringe of community policy, but it is central.
all activities - economic, political, social and cultural - take place in a real environment.
it is only when this real environment is working well that all the other activities we put in place, especially the economic ones, will have the right result.
so if i may just take the chapter on climate and energy for a moment: it is important for us that we really maintain these three objectives for the framework we are discussing, including the 2030 agenda.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of the community's transport infrastructure.
the future of energy, i believe, will be solved by renewable energy.
voting in favour of the draft general budget means supporting all eu member countries in areas like economic and sustainable growth, competitiveness, unemployment (especially youth unemployment), infrastructure projects, research and innovation, and education (directly linked to youth initiatives and youth unemployment).
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the marine environment.
− climate action is an investment in future quality of life.
while leading industrialised countries such as the usa, japan and germany are working to reduce their emissions of climate-damaging co2, emissions are rising in emerging countries such as china and india.
because if in the name of co2 control, we are betting on electricity and heat, we cannot possibly be talking about climate and environmentally friendly.
instead of a trade in allowances, which does not reduce but at best redistributes the hidden development aid of total emissions, and a conversion of power stations into climate-friendly plants, more promotion of renewable energies, more energy efficiency and renovation of old buildings is needed.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european network of national experts in the field of environmental protection.
i think there is urgent action needed in areas like: investments for smes – alternative financing resources should be found; competitiveness – the european business environment should be more competitive; tax havens, combating tax fraud – better tax policies that would actually encourage investors – sound public finances; new employment opportunities for our youth generation; education; research and innovation.
− the european union sets out the medium-term objectives of european environmental policy for several years each by means of an environment action programme (eap).
the sixth environmental action programme, which covered the period 2002 to 2012, expired at the end of july last year.
the commission is now preparing a seventh environmental action programme.
an important objective is to take measures to protect the environment.
as a comprehensive concept, the 7th environment action programme can serve both as the european union's major environmental manifesto to its citizens and the rest of the world, and as the founding document of a european ecological new deal ahead of the 2020 horizon, as a driver of 'greener' growth and a tool for job creation.
there is no question that we must not continue to exploit the environment and must also be careful to exploit the resources that we have, such as oil and gas.
in addition, a minimum level of environmental technology standards should be respected in the extraction of raw materials.
i think it makes little sense for the eu to behave like an 'environmental police'.
− this resolution sets out a new general environmental action programme of the european union for the period up to 2020. the programme covers topics such as the destruction of ecosystems, energy consumption and pollution.
the programme should combine an environmental message with economic and industrial concerns, and the actors should work together to develop an innovative and forward-looking approach.
however, in order to achieve 'green growth', more and more complex environmental regulations are emerging, which overlap and are difficult to understand.
in addition, eu environmental legislation is not based on a solid scientific basis, and therefore has little acceptance and is difficult to enforce.
i think that the environment action programme does not yet have a clear strategy.
what is the role of the citizen and how can environmental awareness be raised among the citizen?
i voted against the environment action programme because of the many ambiguities and the lack of a clear strategy.
− this report aims to create a new european union environment action programme for the period up to 2020, under the theme 'living well within the limits of our planet'.
the aim is to link an environmental message with economic and industrial policy concerns and to optimise the use and effectiveness of eu grants.
- when radiation is mentioned in the context of nuclear energy, it refers to a very specific type of radiation: ionizing radiation.
it is produced by the decay of radioactive atoms, which release energy in the form of radiation, ionizing radiation.
the dangers of ionising radiation depend on the nature, energy and duration of the radiation and the route of exposure.
the rapporteur notes that the proposed provisions on environmental criteria are intended to ensure that the protection of humans is also ensured by means of rules for the protection of non-human species.
- the concerns raised by the committee on the environment and public health regarding the feasibility of a combined directive were the main reason for my abstention.
a clear pro is the enforcement of eu standards in procurement rules: environmental aspects may be taken into account in the award of contracts very welcome, punishment of wrongdoing by companies by future exclusion from the award of contracts also very positive.
will there be problems with the responsibility or sustainability of foreign investors?
but as the representative of a member state which, as a net contributor, is a very important contributor to the financing of this financial framework, i must say very clearly to you that as long as this european union fails to deal with what olaf and in particular the court of auditors have been finding in its reports for years and days, namely that there is a misappropriation of eu funds worth billions of euros, fraud, abuse of funds, waste of eu funds, disappearance in mafia channels as long as i am not prepared to vote for any budget or medium-term financial framework which will further burden my country.
environmental aspects may now be taken into account in the award of contracts and the punishment of misconduct by companies by future exclusion from the award of contracts is also allowed.
the extent to which a correct sense of responsibility or sustainability in the actions of foreign investors can be expected here remains questionable.
− the connecting europe facility serves as a tool for the growth and competitiveness of the european union at global level, while also enabling a synergy of energy, transport and telecommunications technologies, offering more opportunities for participation by individual states and, in particular, for more remote areas and regions, better external connections.
let us stop the waste of talent and the waste of resources.
in addition to the cost of €200 million, which represents around 10% of the parliament's budget, commuting is a major environmental burden and severely limits the work of members.
i am campaigning for reducing the number of seats to one to put an end to this waste of money and pollution.
and the co2 emissions are 11,000 to 19,000 tons, depending on where you're from.
in addition to the cost of €200 million, which represents around 10% of the parliament's budget, commuting is a major environmental burden and severely limits the work of members.
i am campaigning for reducing the number of seats to one to put an end to this waste of money and pollution.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
when the first proposal was put to us, i was disappointed in the environment committee with what was put forward.
we would have had the chance to achieve what the agricultural reform is about, namely to ensure food production in europe, to create the best, highest quality and to allow farmers in all parts of europe to have a biodiversity in their farming.
we have not achieved the priority areas which we really know would be 10% needed to take account of the ecology and, above all, the biodiversity of europe, the biodiversity strategy, and here i am really hurt by the words of my colleague, mr deiss, who said that we would only need 3%.
our agri-environment programmes are actually in line with society's desire for more environmental services and they are targeted.
they take account of regional conditions and provide an incentive for farmers to implement additional environmental requirements.
however, parliament was able to negotiate that those member states with a strong focus on the second pillar programmes should be able to count environmental intermediate consumption on the greening measures.
the rural areas need our support, they need investment to be sustainable!
the reforms are designed to ensure a sustainable economic recovery and boost competitiveness.
the aim of better channelling the areas of use of financial resources is to achieve more efficient and sustainable support.
the simplified investment framework also allows for better coordination of the funds, which creates benefits in many areas: infrastructure, the environment, support for small and medium-sized enterprises and, in particular, the balancing of the level of development of the different regions.
− the european union cohesion fund finances projects that make sense, because they are designed to promote both the environment and integration into trans-european transport networks.
− cohesion fund funds are particularly important for latvia, as they will be used to invest in the construction of the ten-t transport network and environmental protection.
it is important for latvia that the cohesion fund objective has been extended to include support for energy efficiency measures and renewable energy in the housing sector.
− the repeal of regulation (ec) no 1084/2006 appears to be a significant step forward in the fields of environmental protection and sustainable energy.
the report emphasises that improving transport infrastructure in the inner european area is an important component of sustainable urban development.
the new provisions are mainly aimed at implementing the europe 2020 strategy: the efforts to promote private sector support for renewable energy and energy efficiency thus put environmental protection at the forefront.
− this will ensure a more competitive environment for the farmers within the countries of the european union.
the development of agriculture in europe has to be carried out in a balanced manner that will create sustainable jobs and offer more efficient and comprehensive assistance to ‘simple farmers’ about funding tools and instruments that could help them in the future in order to become more competitive.
these programmes allow member states to tailor packages of measures to the needs of their farmers and the demands of their consumers, and agri-environment programmes, for example, respond to the 'social desire for cap reform' to increase environmental performance.
the natura 2000 site or sustainable forest management will preserve valuable recreational areas.
parliament was able to negotiate that member states, with a strong focus on the second pillar programmes, should be credited with environmental priorities.
the objectives of the cap post-2013 remain sustainable food production, sustainable management of natural resources, climate action and a balanced territorial cohesion.
the author therefore opposes the protocol as it only benefits a few large ship owners and does little to improve the sustainable management of fish stocks.
the attempts of the opponents of strasbourg to sell a move to brussels under the guise of a 'single-seat campaign' are therefore a gross electoral deception and a waste of money, since the building in strasbourg is not to be used for anything else.
the environment for entrepreneurship will play a very special role in the future and we must of course also try to create programmes that we can use to create leverage.
here too, in the environmental sector, there is a huge opportunity for us to contribute to a clean continent, and that is why we should give young, strong entrepreneurs the chance to succeed there, to make profits and then to have the equity to also get the loans for the necessary growth in the future.
this justifies targeted and sustainable support for smes, which should be implemented under the programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and smes.
i am very pleased that we have here, with the life programme, a genuine instrument to support environmental projects and, more recently, climate protection projects.
since 1992, when this programme was launched, we have supported 3 700 environmental projects to a considerable extent and now have over 3 billion euro available for this programming period.
we have had to make cuts everywhere, but we have had an increase of 42% in the environment, as i said, and a tripling of the budget for climate action!
i think this is europe's commitment to do something about climate change and adaptation.
the new programmes with these integrated projects are really important so that we too can gain experience in the practical implementation of the environmental protection programme and, above all, in the further implementation of the policy.
but very often, as we know, it is really only a matter of implementing the environmental regulations we have created, and also of cooperation.
i think that in the last few days we have had to suffer setbacks in terms of conservation of species and nature, if we think of the common agricultural policy, where we have only achieved 5% of ecological preferential areas.
- it is essential for me to abstain from voting on this report, particularly because of my position as an austrian member of parliament, but also because of the need to preserve our environment.
unfortunately, this report also assumes that nuclear power will be retained as a 'clean energy'.
− the main objectives of the environment and climate action programme life are: climate protection, adaptation to climate change as a cross-cutting eu priority, and administrative practice and awareness-raising.
the new life programme, which will run from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020, is intended to contribute to sustainable development and to the achievement of the objectives and targets of the europe 2020 strategy.
in particular, this programme aims to contribute to the transition to a resource-efficient, low-carbon and climate-resilient economy, to the protection and improvement of the quality of the environment, and to the reduction and reversal of biodiversity loss.
i voted against the report because i believe that climate action in its current form makes little sense unless the 'global players' such as the us, china and russia are involved and also show a willingness to make changes.
moreover, as studies and scientific reports have repeatedly shown, the extent to which man is actually to blame for the also purported climate change has not yet been proven.
− climate and environmental protection is one of the most important issues of our time.
networks such as natura 2000 in particular are an essential part of the work to protect our climate and environment.
this action plan is very welcome as it also puts the spotlight on sustainable entrepreneurship and links it to social components, including consideration of young people, the elderly, people with disabilities and migrants.
we austrians are not a nation of deep-sea fishermen, but the ecological situation of the world's oceans is something that concerns us.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
− in china, there are still many issues that urgently need to be changed, including respect for human rights, freedom of the press and environmental protection.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and climate change, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment.
greater transparency creates more comprehensive control possibilities, which in turn should prevent overfishing and the resulting environmental impact.
the withdrawal of subsidies for deep-sea trawl fishing is therefore right for economic, social and environmental reasons, which is why i voted in favour of the respective amendments.
strict rules ensuring the conservation of species and the protection of sensitive ecosystems, while keeping market economy aspects and sustainability in mind, are urgently needed in this sector.
− in recent years and decades, a large number of natural disasters with devastating consequences have been recorded, and this is unlikely to change in the foreseeable future in view of climate change.
this regulation also contains a reference to sustainable management and to fair working conditions for workers.
− the eu-wide system, introduced in 2005, is designed to reduce emissions from production.
since relatively little has been done in the field of renewable energy since the introduction of the emission allowances, and at the same time there has been an imbalance, with some countries complying with the requirements, but others still having very high co2 emissions, i voted against.
it should also be noted that the certificate system is a threat to jobs in europe if only europeans adhere to climate protection standards.
− the crisis of the emissions trading system has been and remains a serious threat to the fight against climate change.
i welcome the agreement of government representatives at the beginning of november to give the european commission a mandate for urgently needed reform of the carbon trading system.
the idea behind the emissions trading system is the basis for a good way to effectively tackle climate change, which is why i agree with this report.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the next council meeting will deal with the common foreign and security policy, economic and monetary union, enlargement and energy.
the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of national experts to assess the impact of the eu's policies on the environment.
in addition to peace efforts in the balkans, it is important to improve relations with russia, a country which has not been included in the european neighbourhood strategy, although it is an important strategic partner for europe not only in terms of energy supply.
in addition to economic benefits, particularly in the european market, europe and its partners are better equipped to implement much-needed climate action and to adapt economic standards.
there is a lack of sustainability and coordination of activities.
we need the right structures for sustainable employability and active labour market policies.
− the transport of radioactive material is a high-risk activity for man and the environment.
− radioactive waste is a serious danger and environmental burden for our children and grandchildren.
to prevent this, member states have developed a number of national solutions for the registration and transport of radioactive material, including nuclear waste.
nor is there any distinction made between the transport of radioactive material for medical purposes and the transport of radioactive material for the production of nuclear energy.
− 80 million people with disabilities live in the european union and are in dire need of a physical, mental and social environment free of barriers and prejudice, free from stereotypes that prevent them from fully enjoying their fundamental human rights and citizenship of the union.
the full participation of women with disabilities in the economy and society is fundamental to the success of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
we have created the instruments to ensure that trade policy at european level is now also social policy, human rights policy and environmental policy.
where it makes environmental and economic sense, the concept of green infrastructure needs to be implemented more systematically.
clean air, clean water, flood protection green infrastructure can often deliver more cost-effective and sustainable environmental, economic and social benefits than conventional solutions.
in times of economic crisis, high unemployment, high energy prices, scarcity of raw materials and dependence on imports, the creation of sustainable jobs and economic growth is essential for social cohesion.
the eco-innovation approach, which combines environmental protection with growth, competitiveness and job creation, offers a way to do this.
environmentally friendly innovation is fundamental to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, using resources such as water and raw materials more efficiently, increasing the use of recycled materials and producing higher quality products with lower environmental impact, to name a few.
the current focus areas of the eco-innovation 2012 call are: recycling of materials, sustainable construction products, food and beverage industry, water management and green enterprises.
these are complex challenges, including food security, climate change, soil quality, raw material scarcity, the transition to renewable energy systems, energy efficiency and more.
a new, sustainable eu economy must ensure balanced economic and social development that benefits all markets and business models.
it can give new impetus to traditional industries and existing jobs by adapting to sustainable, resource-efficient production and working methods.
our report 'eco-innovation - jobs and growth through environmental policy' addresses the challenges and opportunities of the transition to a more resource-efficient and lower-carbon economy.
environmentally friendly technologies not only create sustainable economic opportunities, they also create many jobs and provide the basis for more environmentally friendly production processes and services.
especially in times of increased greenhouse gases and resource scarcity, such innovations need to be encouraged.
it is important to keep sustainable development in mind in this area and to support blue growth in the maritime sector in the long term.
the report is generally agreed as a european maritime and fisheries fund is needed, but the precise provisions on sustainability should be reviewed and revised if necessary.
− it is the responsibility of man to take care of his environment and ecosystems so that they can be passed on to succeeding generations in a functioning way.
i also believe that sustainable infrastructure and its long-term planning will be necessary to maintain the quality of life of people, especially in the urban centres.
the resolution on green infrastructure is very welcome, as unfortunately far too little attention is still paid to environmental protection and the preservation of our habitat.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.