while restructuring and relocation have existed before, it is undeniable that the negative economic environment of recent years has contributed to the proliferation of such practices on our continent.
in voting this resolution, parliament expressed its ambitions for urban redevelopment as they should be developed in the next cohesion policy programming for 2014-2020 (a minimum of 5% of european regional development fund funding will now be devoted to sustainable urban development).
it emphasises, among other things, better energy efficiency in buildings and the renovation of suburbs.
cities are the main focus of the effects of the economic crisis, the challenges of combating climate change, job creation, well-being and quality of life.
while cities are the engines of the economy, production and employment, they are the context in which the problems of suburbanisation and, more generally, social exclusion and segregation, as well as environmental pollution, are manifested.
cities are the main focus of the effects of the economic crisis and the challenges of combating climate change, creating jobs, well-being and quality of life.
this can enrich environmental, spatial planning, trade, transport and traffic policies through a mixed use of land that integrates physical infrastructure and intangible networks.
territorial development plays a key role in cohesion policy in encouraging the creation of new sustainable jobs by smes and in the development of vocational training programmes.
genetic resources are particularly crucial for sustainable agriculture and food security.
moreover, genetic diversity is one of the most important aspects for the survival of species and the resilience of the ecosystem.
the eradication of extreme poverty and hunger and the promotion of biodiversity and healthy ecosystems for agriculture, forestry and fisheries in a sustainable development perspective are therefore very important issues.
mr langen, you are completely caricaturing mrs goulard's report and, of course, i am not going to answer you because it would be a waste of my time.
we believe that encouraging larger trucks is contrary to the objectives of the white paper which calls for a modal shift from road transport to more sustainable means of transport over longer distances.
a revision of the dangerous preparations directive (1999/45/ec) was necessary to ensure the protection of health and the environment.
as is often the case, some countries are not playing the game and today's vote in the european parliament on the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean is timely.
it was important that meps, by amending the legislation on fisheries in the mediterranean, support an ambitious approach to greater sustainability of fisheries and better protection of natural resources.
i hope that with the reform of the common fisheries policy, a new regionalised framework will make it possible to find quickly an appropriate regulatory solution for the mediterranean, which will be accepted by the member states and the parties concerned, while taking into account the specificities of this sea basin, but also ensuring in an effective way the sustainability of fisheries and the protection of resources and the environment.
biodiversity has long been a major concern of the european union.
as early as the 1990s and 2000s, the convention on biological diversity (cbd) and the cartagena protocol on the prevention of biological hazards were drafted to ensure the safe transfer, handling and use of living modified organisms (lmos) that have the potential to cause adverse effects on the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity or that present a priori a risk to human health.
in 2010, a major agreement was also adopted on "access and benefit-sharing" (abs), regulating the sharing of profits by the pharmaceutical and cosmetics industries from genetic resources from the "biodiversity reservoir" of the south.
in line with the eu environmental liability directive adopted in 2004, the additional protocol specifically addresses liability and redress for damage to biodiversity caused by lmos.
but it is essential that an emphasis on sustainable growth, economic development and social protection should go hand in hand with these improvements.
we must give the euro countries more time to reduce their budget deficits and more room for sustainable and social investment.
the main objective of the plan was to ensure that the baltic cod stocks could be exploited under economically, environmentally and socially sustainable conditions.
i welcome the vote on this resolution, which aims to ensure that the structural funds are used optimally in the energy sector during the next programming of the 2014-2020 cohesion policy, especially as european funding in this area is expected to increase from eur 5 billion to eur 17 billion.
security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness are common objectives of european energy policy.
it is also important for europe to ensure the security of energy resources, diversification of supplies and affordable prices for the user.
i welcome the overall approach of linking cohesion policy to the europe 2020 objectives and flagship initiatives in order to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and support the shift towards an energy-efficient and low-carbon economy across all sectors.
moreover, this can only be achieved by considering the importance of increasing the administrative capacity of member states at regional, local and stakeholder levels, with a view to making full and effective use of the funding allocated to energy projects under cohesion policy, overcoming the obstacles to effective synergies between the structural funds and the other funds and supporting effective policy design and implementation.
it should be noted that this measure must complement, not replace, direct subsidies and co-financing of energy projects.
i agree with the rapporteur responsible for this dossier because i believe that cohesion policy needs to be linked to the europe 2020 objectives and flagship initiatives in order to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and support the shift towards an energy efficient and low carbon economy in all sectors.
in addition, the structural funds and the cohesion fund are crucial elements for achieving these short- and long-term objectives, in line with the spirit of solidarity between member states enshrined in the treaty of lisbon, and for combating energy poverty in the most vulnerable households and the least developed regions of the union.
i would also add that the planned increases in energy prices will clearly put the citizens of the less developed regions of the union at a disadvantage.
therefore, the joint issuance of bonds requires the establishment of a sustainable budgetary framework beforehand; this means that, through a culture of stability and growth and credible arrangements, the existence of stability bonds could foster stability in the euro area; the issuance of stability bonds could reduce the pressure on sovereign debt and thereby promote growth and employment, stimulate the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and contribute to the completion of the internal market.
we have supported and continue to support the european position of saying 'everything but military intervention', given the context, the environment.
and the environment is anything but friendly, with iran facing us, with syria exploding, with al qaeda being in syria, with iraq, with the porousness of the syria-lebanon border.
but if this conference does take place, you have spoken, madam minister, of a climate of confidence; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the epa should help the four countries to promote sustainable development and reduce poverty.
it is clear that zimbabwe's "national unity government" is failing to implement the reforms contained in the comprehensive political agreement, which are essential for the country to hold credible, free and fair elections in 2013. to do this, the zimbabwean government must now level the playing field and create an environment that respects human rights.
the signing of the epa is a necessary step on the path to sustainable growth in the region.
it is also important that afoa partner countries contribute to this reform process through a review of their trade and economic policies aimed at creating a better climate for trade and investment.
secondly, i would like to stress in particular the need for competition policy to provide appropriate public support for the green transformation of the economy, in particular in the field of renewable energy and energy efficiency, and for this principle to underpin the new guidelines.
i insist that trade agreements should always be accompanied by acceptance conditions linked to social and environmental criteria.
what has industrial policy in europe been up to now but giving tax or regulatory gifts by relaxing social and environmental standards?
in the real economy, increasingly greedy and less patient shareholders must be offered profits that are actually incompatible with a competitive and sustainable market economy.
it is by innovating to become the world champions in resource and energy efficiency that we will best secure the future of our industry.
finally, we must get away from the logic of free trade agreements aimed solely at trade at the cost of lowering social and environmental standards.
finally, i am convinced that the industrial strategy will ultimately require the recovery of budgetary investment capacity and the necessary and fair environmental and social reciprocity.
what i am asking you today is first of all to make it clear very quickly and very quickly to your working party that it is not necessarily environmental issues, as has been said, that are causing the steel industry to be overburdened.
thirdly, i think we must work to protect our innovative technology through external environmental and social tariffs.
how do we solve the financial crisis, how do we solve the economic recession, how do we solve climate change?
agricultural activity, in its most modern sense, is inextricably linked to sustainable economic, social and ecological development.
these measures will ensure sustainable plant and animal diversification and will contribute to better self-sufficiency of the local population, which will then reduce imports.
they will encourage innovation and research leading to sustainable agricultural production.
the city is the solution when it comes to climate issues, when it comes to space use, when it comes to proximity, but then we have to have the courage to actually solve some of the persistent problems in our cities.
one of them has to do with noise and noise pollution.
a modern, competitive, high-quality industry that is a key player in the green economy and therefore also in our action to combat climate change.
i am sure that a balanced policy, where industrial policy, environmental policy and health policy can work together and all have the same objective, which is to make life better for our fellow citizens.
but we are thinking of a green car, a car that is less polluting, not only in terms of co2 emissions but also in terms of noise pollution.
the commission proposal for a regulation seems to me to be a proposal which seeks to balance the different interests: the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment.
it is not an exaggerated proposal, it is not an extremist proposal, but it is a proposal which seeks to reconcile the interests of a modern and competitive industrial policy and the protection of the environment and therefore of the health of citizens.
noise pollution is undoubtedly causing serious health problems.
yesterday we applauded mr hollande for proposing that we invest in more sustainable development and in young people.
thirdly, it is not right that our trade agreements do not take social and environmental constraints into account any more.
'there is something rotten in the kingdom of denmark', as shakespeare would have said, but without falling into protectionism, we must insist on the fair reciprocity of trade agreements by including social and environmental criteria.
we need to invest in sustainable and growth-oriented investments and in people (for example, the erasmus programme or the youth guarantee scheme).
the european parliament voted in favour of an ambitious reform aimed at making fishing in the european union more sustainable by ending overfishing practices that are causing the decline of fisheries resources.
however, eu waters are equipped with all the conditions necessary for economic, social and environmental benefits to be derived from fishing.
it is therefore essential to make changes to this policy in order to develop this sector in a sustainable way that is beneficial for fishermen, citizens and the marine environment.
to do this, fishermen must respect their quotas, adopt a no-refuse policy and thus reduce waste.
at the moment we are all concerned with environmental problems, so it seems to me also vital to pay particular attention to small fishing enterprises, which, through their non-industrial techniques, contribute to the respect and balance of nature.
adopting this reform means making the fisheries sector sustainable, profitable and environmentally friendly.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
not only is overfishing a scourge that is destroying the marine environment, it also risks destroying almost 100 000 european jobs and putting entire communities that depend directly on the sea at risk.
the european union already applies type-approval criteria in co2 emissions legislation, in particular regulation (ec) no 715/2007 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 june 2007 on the type-approval of motor vehicles with respect to emissions from passenger cars and light commercial vehicles.
given that the type and quality of the road surface also influence road traffic noise emissions, it is therefore necessary to adopt a comprehensive european approach which takes into account the acoustic performance of the road surface.
the objective of reducing ambient noise by lowering noise limit values and introducing a new and refined test method for measuring noise emissions is important for the protection of the environment and public health.
i am in favour of a balanced decision which moves towards protecting the environment and public health and incorporates economic factors, without neglecting the job losses which this could cause in some countries if manufacturers were to go bankrupt or move elsewhere.
according to the european environment agency, half of the eu population in urban areas is exposed to intolerable traffic noise.
noise pollution from traffic kills 50,000 europeans every year.
the main objective of the commission proposal for a regulation on the noise level of motor vehicles is to protect public health and the environment by means of measures to reduce the noise emitted by these vehicles.
the aim is to introduce a new test method for measuring noise emissions and new noise limit values for different categories of light, medium and heavy vehicles.
i agree with the general approach of this proposal, which is a step forward in counteracting the effects of noise emissions from motor vehicles on public health and the environment.
i would, for example, be in favour of introducing a system of labelling of vehicle noise emissions, in order to promote low-noise vehicles and to enable consumers to make an informed choice before buying a vehicle.
while most of them have had to take drastic measures to reduce their debt levels and budget deficits in order to put public finances on a sustainable path, some countries have been hit so badly that they have had to resort to the union's financial support mechanisms.
to make fishing sustainable, it is imperative to take account of its resources and thus avoid depleting fish stocks.
to ensure the sustainable development of this sector, all fishermen must comply with the standards for the equipment used.
the best possible result will be achieved by respecting the marine environment and the rules governing fishing.
not only is overfishing a scourge that is destroying the marine environment, it also threatens to destroy nearly 100 000 european jobs and to put entire communities that depend directly on the sea at risk.
in view of the ageing of the population, appropriate measures must be taken to enable older people to develop in an appropriate environment.
to be able to remain active, independent and healthy, one needs, of course, adequate infrastructure and easy access to services, but also an ecological environment, a social and cultural life, etc.
a person who lives in an environment where he has everything he needs is a person who remains dynamic, independent and healthy.
at present, large areas of land, particularly in africa, which are designated for environmental protection, are beyond the control of the state, its sovereignty and its security.
if nothing is done to prevent this, the situation will worsen and will have disastrous consequences for the environment and stability of many countries.
− this report goes hand in hand with the report on promoting the interests of society and a path to sustainable and inclusive recovery.
this provides for the promotion, enforcement and monitoring of social and environmental standards by enterprises.
it not only contributes to the europe 2020 strategy by promoting sustainable growth, safeguarding jobs and revitalising the economy, but also helps to mitigate the social consequences of the financial and economic crisis.
i also welcome the promotion of innovative solutions that enable businesses to tackle social and environmental challenges, such as intelligent transport systems and environmentally friendly products.
if they incorporate this principle into their sustainability strategy, everyone will benefit.
on the one hand, the process of globalisation and the emergence of 'global' markets are fostering the emergence of social and environmental standards within companies; on the other hand, an increasingly attentive and informed civil society is 'calling' for more responsible behaviour on the part of companies.
i am not inclined to accept an approach to csr which assumes that business takes over the primary functions of government in promoting, implementing and monitoring social and environmental standards.
although there have been marked improvements, many european companies have not yet fully integrated social and environmental concerns into their activities and strategy, which undermine labour rights and human rights in general.
the report calls on responsible companies to demonstrate their active commitment to mitigating the social consequences of the crisis and by launching a number of csr actions: job creation for young people, health at work, sustainability of pensions, promotion of the 'minimum living wage', combating labour exploitation practices in business supply chains and promoting new markets for socially and environmentally useful products and services.
between june 2008 and december 2009, for example, an estimated €5 billion was lost as a result of vat fraud in the context of greenhouse gas emission allowance trading.
in particular in times of crisis, not only should there be budgetary discipline with high-quality monitoring and evaluation of public finances, but also, and above all, investments in sustainable growth.
the european contract for growth is simple: it is a question of activating all possible levers to allow a vigorous and sustainable recovery of growth, a necessary condition to support our social systems.
the single market has a key role to play in achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the eib's lending to projects that are harmful to the environment, climate or developing countries must be stopped quickly.
the eib's mission is to contribute to the eu's climate and development objectives.
in 2011, the eib froze loans to the trading company glencore, whose subsidiary was involved in corruption, tax evasion and serious pollution around a copper mine in zambia.
between 2007 and 2011, as much as 30% of eib energy budget lending went to fossil energy.
unfortunately, too many politicians still believe that we can delay the choice of sustainability forever.
europe must take active steps to improve inclusive growth and its prospects, strengthen its capacity for innovation and its knowledge-based industry, increase investment in infrastructure, develop networks and strengthen social and environmental policies.
first, 75% of the energy investments for the connecting europe facility must be dedicated to the electricity grid.
if we are really to make the energy europe primarily a renewable energy europe, this requires a complete transformation of our electricity grid infrastructure.
we know that we have to make some progress on energy efficiency.
and then, in the run-up to 2030, again setting clear targets on renewable energy, for example 45 percent renewable energy but also, of course, on greenhouse gas emissions and energy efficiency.
commissioner, the roadmap is an interesting document and i hope that our advice will also interest you, but you are not the head of the energy studies service or the chairman of a think tank, you are a policy maker.
i think we have to decide now, that on the basis of those no regret options, we make sure that we are completely energy independent by 2050, because then we are completely dependent on renewable energy.
it is a different debate, but i am convinced that the current ets system is not working and that we need to move to a system where a kind of carbon footprinting for a product actually works and ensures that the products we buy, whether they are made in the european union or outside, have the same quality requirements.
if you really go through with this and really want to insure everything, then it turns out that nuclear energy is not insurable.
the need for sustainable, safe and affordable energy is one of the major challenges that unites europeans, from civil society to policy makers, industry and environmentalists.
however, european energy policy is making slow progress.
although the commission has set ambitious energy policy objectives competitiveness, security of supply, sustainability and decarbonisation , we are still faced today with insufficient integration of the internal energy market, significant energy isolation of certain geographical areas, insufficient access to diversified energy sources, which contribute to energy security, and the absence of tangible benefits for consumers and businesses in terms of prices and sustainability.
it is also important to make it compulsory to account for all carbon and greenhouse gas sinks for each type of activity.
needless to say, the protection and respect of the environment is one of the european union's top priorities at the moment.
up-to-date, reliable and accurate data, particularly on greenhouse gas emissions, are therefore essential.
while this regulation is largely based on the monitoring mechanism established by decision no 280/2004/ec, it does introduce certain changes and clarifications, for example to improve the transparency, timeliness and comparability of data or to facilitate the development of new instruments to combat climate change.
i supported this report for the improvements it proposes to streamline and improve the union's rules on reporting and monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions and to enhance the union's credibility vis-à-vis developing countries by providing transparent and comprehensive information on the different types of support and the scale of such support.
the european commission has also published a report on the implementation of the european union's new rules on the protection of the environment.
the text calls on the european union to define a set of environmental and social standards to be respected in the proposals for public contracts financed by the european development fund (edf) in the acp countries.
i therefore welcome the adoption of this report which calls for the protection of human health and the environment from the harmful effects of radiation by the development of minimum standards and monitoring of radioactive contamination to ensure that more ambitious limits are applied throughout the eu for the concentrations of radioactive substances in drinking water.
access to safe drinking water for all eu citizens is one of the main objectives of our policies on human health and environmental protection.
access to safe drinking water for european citizens is a central concern of policies in the fields of human health and environmental protection.
the epp has been campaigning for greater eu budgetary integration and monitoring to support member states in drawing up sustainable budgets, the basis for growth and jobs.
the annual cost of environmental enforcement failures is some €50 billion in direct health and environmental costs.
member states must take all necessary measures to protect the environment and support sustainable development, taking into account a healthy and competitive economy.
the availability of reliable, comparable and easily accessible information on the state of the environment is essential to monitor the progress of implementation in an effective manner.
citizens must be actively informed about environmental policies at an early stage in order to be involved in the development and implementation of these policies.
this report responds to the commission's communication exploring ways of strengthening the implementation and enforcement of eu environmental legislation, in order to improve the state of the environment and reverse trends that are moving us away from sustainability.
the report advocates improving the methods of collecting information on the state of the environment, through the implementation of more efficient information systems, both at member state and union level.
it is essential that it enables us to ensure sustainable and high-quality agricultural production.
i am of course in favour of the principle of environmental responsibility, but farmers are not just gardeners.
i voted in favour of this report which also proposes to strengthen the commission's proposal as follows: the data provided should be as complete as possible to ensure maximum transparency, in particular with regard to the public sector, and it insists that such data be produced and published taking into account the needs of the user; further methodological work is needed to provide a more complete picture of environmental aspects, household activities and the public sector.
safe, sufficient and sustainable food is and remains crucial.
we are of course in favour of sustainability, but we must also leave room for agriculture in densely populated areas such as flanders.
in addition to the proposal on direct payments, the package for the future of the cap includes three other proposals, which i also welcome, because all three are intended to lead to a more sustainable, more transparent, less administrative and more efficient agriculture.
the aim is to achieve profitable food production, sustainable management of natural resources and climate protection measures.
in line with the europe 2020 strategy to promote resource efficiency for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in eu agricultural and rural areas, the reform of the common agricultural policy (cap) sets the following specific objectives: sustainable food production; sustainable management of natural resources with climate action; balanced territorial development to maintain the two pillars of the cap, namely pillar i or the direct payment regulation, covering direct payments and market-related measures providing support for farmers' annual income, with a safety net in the event of market instability, and pillar ii or the rural development regulation, covering rural development in regions where member states draw up multiannual programmes and participate in their financing.
the concern to ensure a secure and secure food supply for europeans, the will to work towards sustainable agriculture and a sustainable rural policy, and the concern to ensure the viability of the agricultural sector.
unused direct support resources should be reused in a sustainable rural policy.
in line with the europe 2020 strategy to promote resource efficiency for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the eu's agricultural and rural areas, the cap reform sets the following specific objectives: sustainable food production; sustainable management of natural resources with climate action; balanced territorial development.
we have fought to try to achieve a cap that is fairer, simpler, more sustainable and more in line with the realities on the ground.
we have struck a balance between food security and increased environmental protection, so that the new eu agricultural policy can deliver even more public goods to european citizens.
we have fought to try to achieve a cap that is fairer, simpler, more sustainable and more in line with the realities on the ground.
we have struck a balance between food security and increased environmental protection, so that the new eu agricultural policy can deliver even more public goods to european citizens.
by voting for this report, the european parliament is sending a strong signal that it is putting renewable energy and energy efficiency at the heart of the strategy for transitioning to a decarbonised system by 2050. the european parliament thus supports the conclusion that the rise of renewables and the improvement of energy efficiency are the 'perfect solutions' to achieving a low-carbon energy europe.
we also invited the commission to explore a scenario combining a high level of renewables and energy savings, and called for a post-2020 strategy compatible with the eu's 2050 decarbonisation agenda.
this requires benchmarks and targets for carbon emissions, renewable energy and energy efficiency in order to establish an ambitious and stable legal and regulatory framework.
today, and for some time now, energy has been the focus of all the concerns.
indeed, given that security of supply is one of the pillars of the eu's energy policy and that it is in the interest of all member states to reduce their dependence on energy imports, it is imperative to set an agenda for the coming decades and to stick to it.
its different objectives (such as regional energy specialisation such as solar in the south and wind in the north), its long-term strategy based on renewable energy, its innovative ideas and its social dimension make this roadmap for energy to 2050 a coherent and promising action plan.
− this report deals with the european parliament’s position regarding the commission communication on future eu energy policy up to 2050. it backs the commission’s finding that res (renewable energy sources) and ee (energy efficiency) are ‘no regret’ options.
it also notes that since massive investments are required even under a ‘business as usual’ scenario, it is preferable to use them to modernise and develop our energy system towards a decarbonised future.
our shadow rapporteur calls for a clear statement from the european parliament indicating that we want to see clear support for a high renewable and energy efficiency scenario.
moreover, unacceptable sections of the report should be removed, such as the call for the commission to actively promote nuclear energy and discussion of scenarios for increased dependence on nuclear energy and gas.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i am fully aware that the eu-china strategic partnership is of considerable importance for the eu-china relations and that this relationship is crucial to responding to global concerns such as international and regional security, economic crisis, global financial and market regulation, energy security, weapons of mass destruction and nuclear non-proliferation, climate change, economic and social development of a market economy, the promotion of democracy and human rights and the fight against organised crime, terrorism and piracy, as well as to creating a framework to address bilateral concerns between the eu and china.
this deleterious climate has left deep traces.
emissions trading is an important element of climate policy and that is why i support the european commission's 'backloading' proposal.
the success of the instrument is currently in danger of being completely undermined by the extremely low carbon price resulting from an excess of emission allowances on the market and the slowdown in industrial activity due to the economic crisis.
the consequence of a low carbon price is that incentives for energy efficiency and renewable energy production are lost.
the stabilization of the price should enable us to correct some of the design errors in the emissions trading system in cooperation between parliament, the council and the commission, because that is what is most urgently needed.
but if we do not pause now and put some of the allowances on the market later so that the carbon price has some room to recover, the whole system will collapse before we can begin to adjust it.
emissions from international aircraft represent a rapidly growing contribution to global greenhouse gas emissions.
yet, after nearly two decades of negotiations, there has been no internationally-agreed principle on who has the responsibility – and who has the authority – to control emissions from international flights.
this is a problem, not only because of the emissions themselves, but also – as mr liese has just stated – for reasons of fairness.
how can we explain to our citizens that we are taking measures to reduce emissions from their use of cars, transport or the heating of their house, farms or whatever it is, if at the same time we do nothing about the very significant emissions every passenger causes when taking an intercontinental flight?
that is why, years ago, the european union decided to include aviation in our emissions trading system.
if you wanted to move on nationally or regionally, it should be through some kind of emissions trading scheme.
when they realised that the eu was actually serious about acting – when we started to include emissions in our scheme – many third countries seemed to have second thoughts about this idea.
but the fact is that the european union has always made it clear that a global approach to addressing the fast-growing emissions from international aviation is our preferred option.
in 2010 the icao assembly agreed to an aspirational goal of carbon neutral growth by 2020. the industry (iata) has adopted this goal and set itself a target of 50% emission reductions from 2005 levels by 2050. however, all trajectories show that, without market-based measures, these targets will be missed.
the swift adoption of the ‘stopping-the-clock’ decision, discussed by parliament today, would ensure legal certainty for national authorities and aircraft operators with regard to compliance for 2012 emissions.
for us in the committee on transport, emissions trading, particularly in the aviation sector, has always been an international issue.
i would like to thank michel barnier, who is the driving force behind the commission's efforts to achieve sustainable financial regulation.
their second point or conclusion is that a new german currency, a deutschmark, would immediately slump to parity with the dollar, immediately losing 20% of its value and making imports – and certainly energy imports – over-expensive.
at the risk of being shocked, the great european challenge is not to solve the present crisis, the great european challenge is to be able to cope with this new world situation and, in direct connection with this new situation, in particular to cope with the energy challenges.
the ex ante assessment of the current conditions of the fisheries sector in mauritius with a view to a new partnership agreement and protocol, prepared with the support of the commission, indicates that 'the impact assessment does not identify any likely negative economic, social or environmental impacts'.
- this vote demonstrates that reconciling the environmental challenges with the preservation of european competitiveness is a difficult - but necessary - balancing act.
the european parliament, when introducing the emissions trading system, ensured that sufficient exemptions were built in to safeguard the competitiveness of energy-intensive sectors such as the chemical and steel industries.
at the same time, we must also tackle the climate problems in a balanced way.
however, the emissions trading system - one of the pillars of europe's climate strategy - is currently under severe pressure.
this vote does not in any way relieve us of the task of finding a solution to our emissions trading system, which is in danger of being overturned.
the structural problems of the system need to be addressed if the european union is to remain on track towards a low-carbon economy.
the european parliament sent the worst possible signal this afternoon in the fight against global co2 emissions, rejecting the groote report by 334 votes to 315. the european parliament voted no to the european commission's exceptional intervention in the carbon market to temporarily remove 900 million tonnes of co2 in this third phase of auctions.
and it accepts the gradual collapse of this mechanism with the identified flaws: vat fraud of more than 5 billion euros and a ridiculously low price of 5 euros per tonne of carbon, which does not incentivise large industrial facilities to invest to reduce their carbon footprint.
i am surprised at this anti-european commission vote that turns its back on 10 years of environmental leadership by the european union, and gives the green light to "polluter rights" in this time of economic instability.
you said carbon free market?
- i supported this proposal because it addresses the current oversupply of allowances and the plunge in carbon prices.
the european carbon market is currently at a low point, with a carbon price that has collapsed from €30 per tonne to €4.
if no permanent solution is found, the emissions trading system will continue to fail to achieve domestic emission reductions and to stimulate investment in green technologies.
adjustments to the system are necessary to accelerate the modernisation of the energy sector, particularly in central and eastern european member states, and to maintain the competitiveness of european industry.
a thorough adaptation of the emissions trading system is also needed to confirm and strengthen the eu's leadership on climate change in the run-up to the 2015 paris climate negotiations.
the eu must get its own emissions trading system out of the way if it is to maintain its leadership.
it also stresses the need for developing countries to improve local governance and social, environmental and labour standards, as well as respect for human rights as a key criterion for improving and strengthening trade relations, which i believe is essential for improving the living conditions of the inhabitants.
i would also like to stress the importance of decent wage levels and acceptable safety conditions at work for a sustainable system of global trade and new global production chains.
they should take into account the needs and capacities of beneficiary countries, encouraging instruments such as regional integration to ensure better exploitation of these synergies, and prioritise measures aiming, inter alia, at: promoting sustainable and inclusive development; creating jobs and enhancing skills and human capital development while reducing social inequalities; to improve resilience to economic shocks; supporting the development of the private sector, in particular small operators, including micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to promote their participation in trade and investment at local, regional, cross-border, bilateral and multilateral levels; and improve fiscal governance and the fight against corruption, tax fraud and evasion, money laundering and tax havens, including through the establishment of information exchanges and control mechanisms on payments made by companies.
a month ago, before that famous weekend, it took 17 billion to make the cypriot debt sustainable.
you doctored the figures on the sustainability of the greek debt.
i voted in favour of this discharge, stressing that the commission should demonstrate that the financial corrections have compensated for errors and have contributed to sustainable improvements in the management and control systems.
it should be reiterated that the european court of auditors considers that the transactions underlying the annual accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2011 are legal and regular in all material respects.
i also note that the european environment agency is a valuable source of environmental information and knowledge on which the commission services rely heavily for policy development, monitoring and evaluation.
in the current austerity climate, long-term investments such as parliament's building projects need to be considered with caution and in a transparent manner.
they forget about energy productivity.
huge, breathless, living carcasses, dismembered in catastrophic environmental and sanitary conditions.
tons and tons of steel, but mostly chemical poisons: asbestos, pvc, pcb, cfc, oil sludge, heavy metals, gases, electrical waste, and even radioactive... don't throw any more, the cup is full.
due to the multiplicity of hazardous materials on board a ship, any ship leaving the european union for dismantling is hazardous waste and therefore can currently only be legally dismantled within the oecd.
in 2009, more than 90% of eu-flagged vessels were actually dismantled outside the oecd, mainly in south asia (india, pakistan and bangladesh), using the 'sand-by' method and with considerable environmental and health consequences.
the ep also called for efforts to be made in structural economic reforms, linked to improving the business environment, fighting unemployment and the sustainable management of natural resources.
it has an extremely impressive energy resource.
renewable energy is the future.
fossil fuels are finite, incompatible with our climate goals, and they're racking up the bills.
investing in renewable energy is, as the commission points out, a 'no regret' option: it always pays off.
whether we choose to replicate the current situation or to build a system based on renewable energy, the costs are the same.
in the medium term, by 2030, we need to get to 45% renewable energy, so that the trend is set towards a fully renewable energy-based system by 2050.
oil and gas, as was also shown in the previous debate on mr reul's report, will remain essential for our energy supply for several decades to come.
the extraction of oil and gas in european waters is of great importance from the point of view of our energy independence and will remain so for a long time.
a very important aspect is that there are strict provisions on the financial capacity of oil and gas operators, so that those who want to get started, even in extreme circumstances, have the technical and financial capacity to cope with the ecological and economic consequences of a possible incident.
another important element: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
these rules are the maximum steps we can take to ensure maximum protection for workers and the environment.
despite the fact that we have often disagreed - for some the glass is always half empty, for us it is indeed half full - we are taking a big step forward today and tomorrow in the interests of both the workers and the environment.
and that brings me to the second subject of the council, namely energy.
the energy challenges are enormous.
if we do what we have to do, we can make a lot of investment in the energy sector and we will create jobs for a lot of young europeans and others, of course.
two, go with renewable energy.
not all the possible interim solutions, but choosing renewable energy and adapting the infrastructures to it.
and finally , energy efficiency.
you have to give member states and europe the ability to invest massively in energy efficiency and that brings millions and millions of jobs.
this is how you tackle both the socio-economic and the climate challenges.
the fragmentation of european airspace has significant negative impacts on airspace users and the environment.
first, the agreement confirms eurocontrol as the technical and operational body of the union in the development and implementation of the eusc; it shall set out the areas of cooperation and define the forms and mechanisms thereof and shall aim to generate synergies with the european aviation safety agency (easa) and to avoid unnecessary duplication of its work on safety-related air traffic management and environmental issues.
in recent years we have seen large-scale environmental disasters caused by oil exploration and production.
the measures envisaged in this report, including the exchange of information and cooperation with third countries, will make it possible to provide rapid and effective assistance in the event of an accident linked to this type of activity that may affect european citizens and the environment of the european union.
− the deployment of renewable energy is vital for europe to become less dependent on oil and gas imports and is a key factor for growth and jobs.
it is in the interest of all of us to avoid the fact that member states, because of their geographical location, have to subsidize certain renewable energy sources too heavily to make them competitive with conventional fossil energy sources.
the development of a fully-fledged european energy market is therefore essential.
this is the only way to get renewable energy from one side of europe to the other.
i welcome the adoption of this report on renewable energy production in europe.
the outlook is that our continent will become increasingly dependent on energy imports to meet domestic demand in the coming years.
unlike other countries or continents, we do not have the natural resources to meet our energy needs.
it is therefore imperative to define an energy policy which takes into account the following three parameters: security of supply, competitiveness, and economic and environmental sustainability.
the completion of the internal energy market by 2014 should promote smes active in renewable energy production.
i am therefore pleased with the framework voted in this report which will allow for greater public support for research and development in renewable energy production which i personally would like to see reaching 40 to 45% of our total consumption by 2015.
in writing.
− increasing the use of renewable energy is of paramount importance to increase europe's energy independence, to promote sustainability in the eu and to boost the competitiveness of european industry.
this is why renewable energy needs to be given special attention in the european energy market.
this is the only way for the eu to achieve its target of producing 20% of its energy from renewable sources by 2020. this report is welcome, as it calls for, among other things, the further development of renewable energy infrastructure and draws attention to the uncoordinated cross-border energy flows caused by insufficient network capacity and storage, and insufficient cooperation.
it also advocates increasing the social acceptance of renewable energy sources by end-users.
the basis for this, in addition to the accessibility of energy from renewable sources, is, in my view, above all, easy-to-understand information for consumers about renewable energies and their uses.
this own-initiative report should be limited to reference to already established energy targets and should avoid the introduction of new binding targets for renewable energy by 2030.
in writing.
the european union is heavily dependent on energy imports.
the promotion of renewable energy is essential to reduce the eu's dependence on third countries, but also to combat climate change and to ensure sustainable economic growth.
i voted for the amendment asking the commission to propose a binding eu-wide target for energy from renewable sources by 2030, but i voted against the amendment proposing to set this target between 40 and 45% of energy production because it is not sustainable for belgium.
addressing the energy challenge is a major challenge for the union.
the european union has no choice but to win the battle for energy independence, or else it risks becoming the only net energy importer on the continent, since the united states and canada discovered the oil shale.
this is reason enough to support the reul report this afternoon, which stresses the essential role of renewable energies in the energy mix and their contribution to the fight against climate change.
this concerns a wide range of energy sources: hydroelectric, geothermal, solar, tidal, wind, biomass, biofuels, which already offer different services in the fields of electricity, heating, cooling and transport, but are unevenly distributed across europe.
belgium, for example, is one of the countries with limited room for manoeuvre: no mountains and rivers to invest in hydraulics, little sun to make photovoltaics a dominant energy source.
the european union cannot ignore this reality; the principle of unequal access to natural resources should now be a priority criterion to be taken into account by the commission when establishing the share of renewable energy in the union's energy mix for 2030.
in writing.
the 2020 renewable energy targets for the european union as a whole, as well as for member states, set by the renewable energy directive, have accelerated the uptake of renewable energy in europe, in particular in rural areas.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
how can we contribute to fair, equitable and sustainable development if half the population does not enjoy the same rights and continues to be discriminated against?
gender equality and the empowerment of women are key elements of growth, economic development and sustainable development.
although pensions remain a national competence, the european strategy for adequate, secure and sustainable pensions voted this afternoon in plenary is an excellent instrument for initiating discussion and then implementing further reforms.
this non-binding own-initiative report aims to reduce the gap between the different pension systems and ensure both their sustainability, solidarity between generations, the principle of equity between members (employees, civil servants, self-employed) and a guarantee of protection for the most deprived.
the european strategy for adequate, safe and sustainable pensions for young people and older people, presented in the white paper, is an excellent instrument for initiating discussion and then implementing reforms, notably through soft law, but also through legislation where necessary.
we must work together, with due respect for the responsibility of the member states and the social partners, to establish systems which are adequate, safe and sustainable.
− only through results can we regain the trust of people and businesses and promote sustainable growth.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
this audiovisual sector is defined by its content, by its cultural specificity, and not by the technology it uses, and the european public service audiovisual sector is destined to continue to develop in a digital environment.
the union is clearly in a weak position in the negotiations with the united states: social, health, environmental, etc.
or in the environment (kyoto, doha, shale gas, etc.).
within this timeframe, not only was it necessary to revise customs regulations in depth with a view to simplification, but also to adapt them to the electronic environment.
but the eu's core values (including social and environmental standards) must be incorporated, as must a uniform opening of markets.
will we give up our hard-won european environmental standards?
by becoming the third macro-region of the european union, after the baltic sea region and the danube region, they will be able to benefit from the cohesion funds and thus improve their competitiveness by developing or strengthening research and innovation, the establishment of a macro-regional strategy for the alps is a useful and necessary instrument for solving all the rural development problems such regions may face, such as employment, the environment, economic development, and the environment.
i voted in favour of this resolution to underline the importance of aligning the content of the alpine strategy with the alpine convention by emphasising that this macro-regional strategy takes into account the preservation of traditional forms of land use in order to encourage biodiversity and the preservation of existing protected areas.
this actually proves that the social model as it has been set up in the past is not sustainable, and that it is built on debt - we saw that during the debt crisis.
improving the sustainability of social policy does not necessarily mean spending more, but more importantly, spending differently, adapted to globalisation, adapted to our modern times and, above all, more efficiently.
firstly, the need for a strong signal from the european parliament in view of the negotiations to make european-funded food aid sustainable as from 2014, as we wished in my report on the platform for the fight against poverty.
finally, i am pleased that the text refers to the fight against food waste with a view to extending local initiatives throughout europe to complement european aid to food banks.
it is therefore essential to ensure that fisheries are ecologically sustainable, in line with economic and social objectives, and that this long-term plan contributes to the availability of food resources.
therefore, i welcome this new agenda which will ensure online protection and legal certainty and reliable delivery services while contributing to the development of a low-carbon economy.
ensuring food safety, health, energy, financial and digital product security should be the top priority of the european consumer agenda.
we need a european consumer agenda that will reduce inequalities between european consumers and contribute to the development of a low-carbon economy.
the construction of more social housing will boost the economy and employment and improve the energy efficiency of the housing sector in general.
in addition, all new housing must be low-energy.
low-income households are particularly affected by high energy bills due to inefficient heating appliances and/or poor insulation.
this is the only way that tolls can make a significant contribution to the sustainability of transport and not be seen as a mere 'go-to-the-box' for car and truck drivers.
less money, better for the environment and a more pleasant family life for all concerned.
illicit, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing is a major threat to the sustainable exploitation of aquatic biodiversity by depleting fish stocks, destroying marine habitats and distorting competition for honest fishermen.
it accounts for about a third of the world's fish catch and is the backbone of any policy to make fishing more sustainable.
and that is precisely what the european parliament is trying to achieve together with the european commission, environmental organisations and some member states.
this is a means of pressure to put countries that don't seem to care about sustainable fishing, like south korea, in the right direction, because once they are on the list, they will be subject to possible sanctions.
because it is caught without respecting ecological and social standards, among other things, it is usually sold by fishermen at a lower price.
but that free movement and open borders are only sustainable if security is also guaranteed.
the commission's proposal is to be based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the environment.
improving the sustainability of the social sector will strengthen social cohesion in the european union and competitiveness within the union.
will we give up our hard-won european environmental standards?
the acp-eu relationship is faced with fundamental challenges (food, energy, economic and financial crisis, climate change) at the global, european and acp levels.
on the positive side, specific targets are suggested to close the gender gap in education, to curb all forms of violence against women, to ensure better access to basic health care, safe drinking water and sanitation, to introduce minimum social rights, to regulate funding beyond 2015 through binding legislation, namely through the 0.7% of the development budget, to create own resources in the eu budget and to reserve parts for sustainable development and climate change.
the european union must formulate a coherent position, building on the mdg framework and on future achievements in the field of sustainable development goals.
i support a framework for the period beyond 2015 that is global and accountable, based on the principles of human rights, equality, non-discrimination, sustainability, good governance and coherent development policies, with the aim of building a just and sustainable world in which every human being can claim their rights and live free from poverty.
and last but not least, there is a positive impact on the environment.
increasing the quality and efficiency of services to citizens, facilitating access to markets for smes, ensuring compliance with good working conditions and environmental criteria: this text represents a clear step forward for all the actors in our society.
the fluid management at airports and the emissions trading system are good examples.
the eu must be a serious negotiating partner at international level, particularly on security, environmental protection and social matters.
the eu must negotiate more closely with its partners, and bring european standards in the fields of environment, employment and safety to the forefront, as this is the only way to ensure that european aviation continues to prevail in the face of increased competition.
this is particularly true for the reporting of annex i non-financial items, such as the treatment of environmental risks in the calculation of the oce premiums and compliance with the union's foreign policy objectives.
such a status will also make it possible to put greater resources at the disposal of the member states in key areas such as training, research, social action, health, culture and the environment.
ships which do not meet the standards are unacceptable both in terms of workers' rights and in the interests of safety, security and environmental protection.
it will also make it possible to monitor pollution from vehicles and to avoid excesses by facilitating vehicle control.
this proposal, as part of the 'technical inspection' package, aims to promote and enforce the rules on the technical inspection of motor vehicles in order to enhance road safety and environmental protection.
in order to be placed on the market, a vehicle must meet all the requirements of type-approval or individual approval and ensure that it meets an optimal level of safety and environmental protection.
this resolution will further improve the control of water pollution in order to combat it as effectively as possible.
clean and pure water is essential not only for the protection of the environment but also for the health of human beings.
there are also provisions for the chemical nature of water to make the public aware of the quality of their water in their environment.
european citizens are also very concerned about water pollution: according to a march 2012 eurobarometer survey, 80% of them believe that chemical pollution is a threat to the water environment.
this call for improving water quality was heard by the european parliament and the irish presidency of the council, which agreed to strengthen existing standards by including in the eu list of 12 new priority substances dangerous to the aquatic environment.
the proposed directive sets out a list of priority substances in the field of water policy, namely chemical substances presenting a significant risk to or from the aquatic environment at union level.
to meet the definition of good chemical status for surface water, bodies of water must meet environmental quality standards (eqs) established for these substances.
measures adopted under the water framework directive aim at a gradual reduction of emissions of priority substances into the aquatic environment or, in the case of psds, at a phase-out or phasing-out.
in a time of economic crisis and reduced spending in the eu, it is important to find new growth potential to exploit while using the wealth of our planet in a sustainable way for our ecology.
new technologies, such as advanced underwater robotics and equipment, are now enabling eu researchers and businesses to turn to the sea to help combat climate change, develop therapies for serious diseases, exploit rare minerals, etc.
europe's long and important maritime tradition is being strengthened by new development actions such as offshore wind energy and aquaculture.
the need to reduce carbon emissions allows for a focus on short-sea shipping and opens the way for renewable energy on the high seas.
we are facing an increase in energy demand and a shortage of natural resources.
sustainable solutions must therefore be found and i believe that the bioeconomy is an adequate solution to meet the challenges of the future.
to achieve this, it is necessary to lay the foundations for a clear and stable regulatory environment and to ensure the harmonisation of agricultural, industrial, environmental, fisheries, research and innovation policies, which are relevant to the bioeconomy sectors.
what we didn't hear is that the financial transaction tax is causing climate change, apparently, and, subject to analysis, the financial transaction tax would not cause, at least not immediately, the end of the world.
at international level, the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) develops harmonised requirements to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties to the revised 1958 agreement and to ensure that such vehicles offer a high level of safety and environmental protection.
at international level, the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) develops harmonised requirements to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties to the revised 1958 agreement and to ensure that such vehicles offer a high level of safety and environmental protection.
due to a growing surplus of emission allowances on the market, the price of co2 emission permits has become so low that companies have little incentive to emit less greenhouse gases.
the measures proposed in this report should raise the price of co2 emission allowances to a level that provides sufficient incentives for european industries to pollute less and invest more in low-carbon innovations, which will reduce greenhouse gas emissions and combat climate change.
the european emissions trading system (eu ets) has created the first major global carbon market, with an eu-wide carbon price as a tool for cost-effectively reducing industrial emissions in the union.
although the ets has reduced carbon emissions since its implementation, it still has serious imbalances.
the current economic crisis, combined with the increase in credits during the first two cycles of the allowance trading scheme and a large influx of external credits for emission reductions from the clean development mechanism (cdm), has led to a considerable increase in surplus allowances and resulted in the price falling to around €4/tnco2 (compared to the €3/tnco2 envisaged when the energy and climate change package was adopted).
the eu ets is one of the pillars of our climate policy.
it proposes better planning of preparation and coordination, to be developed in the context of a discussion between the european commission and the member states; extend the early warning and response system for communicable diseases established in 1988 by improving its resources, networks and structures; it extends the scope of risk assessment and coordination measures to all threats to health, whether biological, chemical or environmental in nature; and strengthens the role of the health and safety committee.
such events are likely to become more frequent in europe for several reasons, including climate change, according to recent assessments by the european environment agency (eea).
i am particularly concerned to achieve the union's objectives of reducing energy consumption, traffic noise, air pollutants, greenhouse gas emissions, accidents and land use, so as to mitigate the impact of transport on climate change and contribute to improving the health and quality of life of the citizens of the union.
i voted in favour of the report on the functioning of the internal energy market which calls for the implementation of a genuine european energy community.
this market should enable the eu to combat energy price rises effectively and thus protect the purchasing power of european consumers.
this report represents a real step forward in the integration of the energy market at european level and i welcome it.
i welcome the main points of the communication and the accompanying action plan, which summarise the progress made so far and the difficulties to be overcome in the future in order to achieve an internal energy market.
however, it must be acknowledged that the upward trend in energy prices is likely to continue, as they are currently linked to the price of a barrel of oil for gas and to the volatile prices of fuels for electricity, and that their evolution is also influenced by europe's dependence on oil and gas imports, the effect of intervention measures, the inadequacy of energy efficiency measures and the lack of investment in the maintenance and modernisation of energy networks.
cohesion policy plays a key role in achieving the eu's target of reducing its overall energy consumption by 20% by 2020. the aim is to improve the eu's energy bill and thus increase its competitiveness, while having a positive impact on the environment and consumer purchasing power.
for these reasons, i welcome the adoption of this report, which will double the share of the budget allocated to cohesion policy to achieve the energy efficiency objective and ensure its effective implementation.
indeed, at the heart of the european strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, the benefits of energy efficiency have long been recognised in europe.
however, the union is facing serious difficulties in achieving its target of reducing its overall energy consumption by 20% by 2020, to which energy efficiency policies could and should make a greater contribution.
improvements in energy efficiency are crucial for european competitiveness and have only advantages in the fight against climate change.
investing in energy efficiency measures has immediate and tangible benefits for households and businesses, whether in terms of cost reductions, job creation and growth, or in encouraging the transition to a low-carbon economy.
− the commission recently signalled approval for a draft maritime strategy for theadriatic and ionian seas, one of the four pillars which are intended to promote sustainable fishing.
i am happy to hear from rapporteur giovanni la via that parliament is willing to confirm the first step but this, of course, is not the end, and we are immediately following on with the next step, namely with eur 3 9 billion, as we cannot waste scarce european budget resources on the payment of late interest or hamper economic development by not paying out to the member states.
why waste months and months on defining a mandate on this and have nothing to show for it when the elections are here?
and with this reform, we are also encouraging electric driving (based on renewable energy), which is fine.
such biofuels were hailed 10 years ago as the solution for renewable energy in transport.
in fact, the overall environmental impact is often negative.
i am also pleased that stricter criteria are being put in place to determine which biofuels are sustainable and which are not, and that from 2020 onwards the indirect environmental impact of biofuel cultivation will be taken into account.
existing projects can therefore continue, but a signal is given to steer future investment in a more sustainable direction.
this creates room for new investment, including in advanced biofuels, derived from waste or algae, and that is good news.
renewable energy sources, and therefore those receiving public subsidies, will have to take direct and indirect effects into account in calculating the greenhouse gas emission rate.
in addition, the european parliament has established a framework to limit the transition from food crops to energy.
the race to new agricultural land for energy purposes has disastrous social and ecological consequences.
the cap on biofuels at 6% of total energy consumption is a minimalist compromise and the implementation target for 2020 is very late.
the text not only supports the european commission's objective of capping the addition of first generation biofuels to traditional fuels, with a ceiling of 6%, but also sets out the way forward and identifies the investments to be made in so-called advanced biofuels, produced from agricultural or forestry residues, non-food materials such as algae, or industrial and municipal waste.
europe and its member states must maintain the target of 10% renewable energy in transport by 2020. it's good for innovation, it's good for the climate, and it reduces the volatility of food prices!
that's important for investors and energy companies.
the energy mix of biofuels must therefore be changed in favour of those that are the most efficient and neutral in terms of their impact on the soil, agrofuels produced from waste or plant residues, which do not compete with food for humans or animals, and the trail of algae and non-food plants.
the european eel stock is facing a multitude of problems: overfishing, loss of vital habitats, pollution, pests, changes in ocean currents due to global climate change, etc.
the rapporteur also proposes to limit the delegation to a period of five years (renewable) and to control the delegation of powers by asking the commission to report on this before the end of each five-year period.
relations between the european union and the republic of cape verde are governed by the acp-eu cotonou partnership agreement, signed on 23 june 2005 and revised since, by a special partnership between the union and cape verde and by a mobility partnership, signed on 5 june 2008. in the context of the special partnership, the european union has embarked on a policy that goes beyond the traditional donor-beneficiary relationship and aims to deepen its relations with cape verde, to promote good governance, security and stability, sustainable development and the fight against poverty, culture and the building of an information and knowledge society, as well as regulatory and technical convergence.
relations between the european union and the republic of cape verde are governed by the acp-eu cotonou partnership agreement, signed on 23 june 2005 and revised since, an eu/cape verde special partnership and a mobility partnership between the european union and cape verde, signed on 5 june 2008. in the context of the eu-cape verde special partnership, the european union has undertaken a policy that goes beyond the traditional donor-beneficiary relationship and aims to deepen its relations with cape verde, to promote good governance, security and stability, sustainable development and the fight against poverty, culture and the building of an information and knowledge society, as well as normative and technical convergence.
the commission has also introduced controls and set up a biodiversity fund with the proceeds of genetic material whose country of origin cannot be determined.
the loss of biodiversity is increasing and accelerating.
beyond an ethical and moral responsibility, the economic and social impact of such a decline is immense: 7% of global gdp lost annually by 2050. in order to contribute to the conservation of biodiversity, its peoples and associated knowledge, it is now necessary that the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge be shared in a fair and equitable manner.
this sharing should contribute to the preservation of biological and cultural diversity in situ and ensure its sustainable use by local populations.
in the implementation of a strong european energy policy, the european union must attach importance not only to transnational energy projects but also to micro-projects enabling european citizens to become energy self-sufficient.
this micro-aspects will directly contribute to making the european union energy independent.
this micro-energy policy must be part of an ambitious european policy which should take the form of a european energy community.
'microgeneration' refers to the whole range of small and medium-sized electricity generators, including solar, wind, hydro, biomass and waste.
proponents of microgeneration (also known as distributed or decentralised power generation) argue that a decentralised energy market is a prerequisite for achieving europe's renewable energy and energy efficiency targets, but they lament the significant barriers to their ability to compete with the largest electricity producers.
this represents 90% of extra-european trade, 40% of intra-european trade and is an indispensable resource in terms of biodiversity.
the european union has a vital interest in the establishment of a safe, open and clean maritime environment that allows the free movement of trade and people and the peaceful, legal, fair and sustainable use of the oceans' wealth.
it shares a common history with these eastern european countries and has established over time economic, political, energy, trade relations, etc., which it intends to maintain.
all the proposals of the commissioner, supported by the council, and of our committee on energy, research and technology, with our excellent rapporteur, deserve broad support in this parliament.
i think it is important that additional issues such as biodiversity and, above all, climate, should also be addressed.
a nightmare in terms of the impact on the environment.
if we are going to change the environmental impact assessment it is important to involve the whole unconventional gas sector in the debate right away.
environmental impact assessment should also be made compulsory for this sector.
in other words, environmental impact assessment should be made compulsory for all unconventional energy sources, both in the exploration, exploitation and extraction phases.
this agreement allows europeans to actively contribute to the development of the country while preserving the sustainability of mauritania's seabed.
the union should also provide sectoral assistance to enable mauritania to manage fishing activities in its waters in a sustainable manner in the long term and to combat illegal fishing by applying the principles of good governance and by respecting international standards on the law of the sea.
the balance shifted to a policy of strict austerity, with far too little attention paid to sustainable investment and socioeconomic recovery.
it is precisely this kind of investment, in sustainable development, employment, innovation and support for smes, that europe needs most.
in order to make fishing sustainable, in the face of the increasing population and urbanisation along the mediterranean coast, it is imperative to take account of resources and therefore avoid depleting marine stocks and resources.
eu waters are equipped with all the conditions necessary for economic, social and environmental benefits to be derived from fishing.
it is therefore essential to bring elements of coastal control, surveillance and safety to this policy in order to develop this sector in a sustainable way that is beneficial for fishermen, citizens and the marine environment.
that is a euphemism and a thinly disguised request to remain silent as much as possible about the unacceptable waste and misuse of taxpayers' money in various european institutions.
the agenda calls for the debate on:- the question with request for an oral answer to the council on the finalisation of the european research area by 2014 by amalia sartori, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000081/2013 - 2013/2695(rsp) - b7-0503/2013), and- the question with request for an oral answer to the commission on the finalisation of the european research area by 2014 by amalia sartori, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000082/2013 - 2013/2695(rsp) - b7-0504/2013).
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to all the members who have helped to achieve such an important result for the protection of the environment but also for a modern and competitive industrial policy.
- shale gas is highly controversial because of the potential impact on the environment of the so-called fracking technique.
so it's good that we're linking this to strict environmental conditions.
the extraction of shale gas has potential advantages: it can reduce the price of our energy and our dependence on foreign suppliers.
but a clear european framework is essential to minimise the risks to people and the environment.
therefore, shale gas drilling should be preceded by a mandatory environmental impact assessment.
as the sustainable environment is one of the main challenges for the future of our planet, i welcome mr zanoni's report on the assessment of the environmental impacts of private or public projects.
it has many positive aspects, clear rules on conflict resolution and real environmental impact assessments.
the energy challenge is one of the most important challenges facing europe.
by 2020, the european union will put in place an ambitious framework for an innovative energy policy, with citizens at its heart.
they must be assured of the highest standards of quality, safety, and security for the production and use of energy.
i supported this afternoon a european parliament resolution to measure the impact of projects on the environment.
the text provides for the imposition of an environmental impact assessment at the exploration stage of shale gas projects, when assessing whether or not to extract it.
shale gas could help reduce europe's energy dependence, increase energy security and create new jobs.
today, a compromise has been found to satisfy both economic interests and environmental concerns.
- we voted today on this report, which is part of the revision of the 1985 european legislation on environmental impact assessment.
the amended directive should help to ensure that the environment of citizens and future generations is better protected, that resources are used more efficiently and that more sustainable growth is stimulated in europe.
the directive is very valuable in protecting weak but crucial values such as our environment and public health.
on the basis of the precautionary principle and as requested by parliament in its resolution of 21 november 2012 on the environmental impact of shale gas and oil shale extraction, it is necessary to include so-called unconventional hydrocarbons in annex i to the directive, so that exploration projects are systematically subject to an eia.
achieving a truly 'green' economy will also require ensuring the sustainability of projects to be carried out in our territory, but also designing and implementing them in line with their impact on resource efficiency, climate change and biodiversity loss, particularly in relation to major infrastructure projects.
the proposed new directive on pleasure craft and motor yachts significantly modernises existing eu rules on safety and environmental requirements for boats for private use, i.e.
it must also include an effective corporate social responsibility clause and binding social and environmental clauses.
all of this must be designed within a genuine sustainable development agenda and must be accompanied by a mechanism for resolving conflicts.
exchanges take place in areas such as research and technology, the information society, education and culture, fisheries, the environment, climate change, intellectual property rights and standards.
despite the exemplary solidarity shown by jordan, lebanon and turkey, the situation is no longer sustainable, especially as the number of refugees continues to grow.
these are so small that they often end up unnoticed in the ordinary household waste instead of being properly recycled.
europe must succeed in what jeremy rifkin calls the 'third industrial revolution' to ensure more sustainable development.
the extension of the derogation for a period of one year would allow for a reasonable compromise in that it would protect the interests of consumers and businesses along the value chain while ensuring the protection of the environment and human health and also allowing more time for technological evolution, sharing of good practices, learning and innovation in this area.
the phenomenon thus represents a major obstacle to the achievement of the objectives of sustainable development and poverty eradication.
fortunately, because we are also going to vote on my colleague mr taylor's report on the question of marine pollution.
well, it is high time to de-fatten the eu and to tackle the excessive waste of money.
nor in this parliament, and there are many examples: the house of european history, the fleets of cars, and the waste of money in european propaganda campaigns to lure voters to the polls.
the dismantling of ships is a particularly complex and highly controversial problem because of its serious environmental and social consequences and its economic importance.
the establishment of an eu list for installations inside and outside the eu helps to reduce adverse effects on the environment and human health and to reduce disparities between operators.
these different standards will make it possible to stop social and environmental dumping and provide an international framework between flag states and recycling states.
most of the remaining ship owners seek to maximise their profits by selling their vessels to sites that meet low or no standards of worker and environmental protection and are therefore able to offer the highest price.
we are facing a clear market failure, due to 'extreme cost outsourcing' at the expense of workers' health and the environment.
the current political and economic environment is threatening the sexual and reproductive health and rights of europeans.
the extreme poverty of this region is reflected in the united nations development indices for 2012. i therefore voted in favour of the tannock report because i too am concerned about the human rights situation in the sahel region, which is aggravated by multiple political, social, economic and ecological crises.
considering development and human rights as central to our concerns and decision-making by all actors as the very basis of european policies, i welcome mrs cretu's report on the creation of a favourable environment for civil society and local authorities.
if we want this to be a reality, we need to invest in quality and sustainable education.
corruption undermines sustainable human development, causes investment to run out, and is a source of instability in government.
let us continue to move in the right direction and become stronger together to move towards more growth and good jobs in a sustainable way.
following the proposal of the committee on the marine environment, the neves report put forward the mapping of the marine environment for the benefit of fisheries.
it is an essential instrument if the fisheries sector is to be made sustainable, profitable and environmentally friendly.
it serves the objectives of the 'europe 2020 strategy' as regards the sea, by combining knowledge and technological innovation, sustainable use of resources, competitiveness and job creation for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
we are opposed to this approach and want strict control of fishing activity to lead to sustainable management from an environmental and social point of view.
the warsaw conference next month is crucial to prepare for the paris summit in 2015 where for the first time all countries, even the most polluting, will be linked to a universal climate agreement.
it is necessary and crucial that we prepare a roadmap and a timetable of commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
today, our energy bill is €400 billion a year.
the european parliament voted today on the framework for the un climate summit in warsaw in november.
these negotiations should set the stage for a binding climate agreement in 2015 in which all countries agree on their co2 emissions.
the report sets out the link between europe's leadership role in international negotiations and europe's own climate policy.
the report stresses the urgent need for co2 reduction to limit global warming to 2 degrees and the importance of energy saving and renewable energy.
nevertheless, this resolution proposes a good framework for the next round of climate negotiations.
the important role of other measures, including energy efficiency and the phasing-out of hfcs, in helping to bridge this colossal gap should be highlighted.
the legitimacy of the pnr agreements and the climate of the negotiations for the trade agreement between europe and the united states are certainly deteriorating.
environmental concern is a matter of responsibility for the union, for third countries, but also and above all for the individual.
the environment must put the european citizen at the heart of the problem.
educating, informing and training them, strengthening their involvement in everyday life, promoting their citizenship and their access to justice in environmental matters - these are the objectives that the new european programme must also pursue.
so what better opportunity than 2013 - the european year of citizenship - to develop environmental citizenship in the union?
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking all those involved for their work, in particular the rapporteurs ismail ertug and his colleague koumoutsakos for the ten-t, inés ayala sender and my colleague riquet for the cef and, of course, those who were represented from the committee on industry, research and energy.
i think all of this should give a big boost to investments that fall within the european priorities of sustainability and interoperability.
while there may be cases of misuse – and they happen, reflecting the various cultures across europe and the various standards of 28 member states – the fact is that we are recovering, and that is not a waste of taxpayers’ money.
one of the most important tasks for any government is to provide services of general interest to its population, in particular access to basic services such as water, housing, waste management, health, education and culture.
in many countries, public procurement is also a key instrument for stimulating employment and economic activity in a given region, as well as for promoting high environmental protection standards and decent working conditions.
the creative europe programme, which aims to promote the cultural and creative sectors (ccs) as a source of smart, sustainable and innovative economic growth, is a european added value.
in my view, the protection and promotion of creativity and culture are necessary to strengthen the roots and the future of european unity in diversity, characterised by pluralism, democracy and peaceful coexistence, and to consolidate its social model, innovation, social inclusion, sustainable development, dialogue between cultures and openness to third countries.
− with the adoption of the connecting europe facility, we have taken an important step towards further stimulating investment in transport, energy and telecommunications networks over the period 2014-2020. the cef will provide some eur 22 billion for transport, some eur 6 billion for energy and some eur 1 billion for telecommunications.
in addition, a european transport network will make an important contribution to further reducing greenhouse gas emissions from transport and making the most of the opportunities for intermodal transport.
in the energy sector too, investment in crossborder energy infrastructure is of the utmost importance in order to reduce our energy dependence on third countries and to keep energy prices affordable for citizens and businesses.
i voted in favour of this report which calls for the completion of the transeuropean networks for transport, energy and telecommunications.
it is absolutely essential that europe should step up its resources, particularly financial resources, to achieve this objective of transport, whether human, energy or communications.
this should enable people in the european union to move more freely, energy to move at lower costs while improving the security of our supplies, but also citizens to benefit from an efficient communication network throughout europe.
the aim of the emi is to accelerate funding for completion of major transeuropean networks in transport, energy and telecommunications.
the helsinki convention on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes, signed in 1992, sets out the rules for the use of water by the member countries of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece), in particular with regard to the principle of sustainable development.
the iter project was concluded between the european union, india, japan, china, russia, south korea and the united states for fusion energy.
for all these reasons, i support the eesc and the outcome of the vote in the itre committee on the regulation on the european atomic energy community's research and training programme (2014-2018) complementing horizon 2020, both of which call for the iter project to be re-incorporated into the mff.
to keep nuclear power, yes; to invest in nuclear safety, yes; but to make nuclear the exclusive energy of tomorrow, no.
recognising the exceptional social, environmental, economic and financial burden of this early shutdown, the european union has committed to provide financial assistance until the end of 2013 both for decommissioning these reactors and to deal with the consequences of the early shutdown.
the revision of the european funds should ensure that they are better used to reduce unemployment and poverty and that investments are sustainable and prioritised.
anti-discrimination, gender equality and environmental impact assessment policies).
in addition, environmental and climate protection is built in through the horizontal principles and conditions and there is a lower limit of expenditure for the european and social funds.
i am in favour of this sustainability and social reform.
this is a major step forward in improving coordination and strengthening synergies between the funds and the implementation of the funds to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in line with the europe 2020 strategy.
this reform has simplified the way the cap operates and has strengthened the necessary balance between food security and enhanced environmental protection.
good quality and affordable food for a growing population, vibrant rural areas and sound and sustainable agriculture: these are the objectives of the common agricultural policy.
good quality and affordable food for a growing population, vibrant rural areas and sound and sustainable agriculture: these are the objectives of the common agricultural policy.
good quality and affordable food for a growing population, vibrant rural areas and sound and sustainable agriculture: these are the objectives of the common agricultural policy.
good quality and affordable food for a growing population, vibrant rural areas and sound and sustainable agriculture: these are the objectives of the common agricultural policy.
in fact, farmers no longer have to comply with all existing directives on sustainable pesticide use, water management and nature conservation to qualify for income support.
this reform misses the opportunity to give a boost to sustainable agriculture and to give agriculture a role not only in food production but also in landscape conservation and restoration, water policy, soil protection, biodiversity and animal welfare.
the consumer pays three times: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment, such as the reduction of the use of pesticides, the reduction of the use of pesticides and the reduction of the use of pesticides.
good quality and affordable food for a growing population, vibrant rural areas and sound and sustainable agriculture: these are the objectives of the common agricultural policy.
the agreement provides a partnership framework which will ensure the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of resources.
this agreement is therefore essential for the development of the country but also for ensuring that the fisheries sector is a sustainable sector.
it does not, under these conditions, contribute to the sustainable management of tuna resources in the western and eastern pacific ocean.
all unnecessary expenditure, which is harmful to the environment, must be banned.
whether it is health or food, whether it is climate or the environment, whether it is the cohesion of our societies, their security - let us say that too - particularly in the energy sector, we are very pleased that 85 per cent of research expenditure in this area is now devoted to what can be called, in general terms, the energy transition - an area in which i believe europe can claim global leadership positions.
for example, we now waste 30% of the food we produce in europe.
if we want to drastically reduce this waste of food - which is also a waste of energy and a waste of resources - it is obvious that we must provide the necessary innovations with a technological dimension but, above all, with a social dimension.
how do we organize our cities and our countryside to reduce food waste?
i think what we really need to do today as policymakers is make sure that we create the right ecosystem for entrepreneurship.
first of all, i think there are things that every business faces, whether it's our small businesses, but also our larger businesses: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take measures to ensure that the social partners are not over-regulated, but also to ensure that the member states are able to implement structural reforms in their labour markets in order to create a more competitive environment.
in concrete terms, it is about supporting and responding to the societal challenges ahead, whether they are related to health, energy, transport, climate action or security, to boosting scientific excellence as well as our industrial leadership, particularly in biotechnology and space technologies.
the programme changes will allow for better support for smes, science and for the allocation of funds for research into non-fossil energy.
to ensure that europe emerges strong from this crisis and that the european economy recovers, the europe 2020 strategy focuses on research and innovation as a means of moving towards a knowledge-based economy, guaranteeing more balanced, diverse and sustainable growth.
if europeans want to see real smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, as the 2020 strategy suggests, the european union, in partnership with all national authorities, must focus on the competitiveness of enterprises, and more particularly smes.
the future horizon 2020 programme must strengthen europe's leadership in an environment where, in many areas, it has lost ground.
the sustainable environment and climate issues are crucial issues for the future of our planet.
i welcome the report by mrs jutta haug which provides for an instrument to finance environmental and climate action projects by public or private agencies for the period 2014-2020 to the tune of eur 3.1 billion.
the objective of the life programme is to mainstream environmental and climate policy objectives into other policies.
to do this, the programme will have new missions, such as the establishment of 'sub-programmes' for climate action, new integrated projects and the growing challenges in the field of resource efficiency.
for 20 years, life has been a highly successful instrument for addressing the environmental and climate challenges faced by european citizens.
i believe that trade can be an important instrument for ensuring sustainable economic development if it is deployed gradually and intelligently, if it allows exceptions for sensitive products, if it is not exclusively export-oriented and is complemented by appropriate accompanying measures, and if it ensures that the richest do not profit from trade at the expense of the poor.
i am concerned about the decreasing number of eu citizens who are considering selfemployment in the current climate of economic uncertainty.
the european parliament will vote tomorrow on a number of texts which could make european fisheries a lot more sustainable.
the seabed is being scraped with trawls, wreaking ecological havoc.
as indicated in the salk strategy (limburg action plan) of the flemish government, it is essential that the manufacturing industry continues to evolve towards a smart, innovative and sustainable manufacturing industry with higher added value in order to remain competitive.
it will enable sustainable fisheries management, create local jobs, modernise the fishing industry and serve the interests of the local population, including that of western sahara.
the two sides negotiated with full regard for developments in the european parliament and agreed that the new text should aim to respond to the criticisms and guidance expressed in the fisheries committee report and in the resolution adopted in parallel, which called for ensuring that the agreement is mutually beneficial and based on economic, social and environmental sustainability.
in order to ensure that the health and safety of workers against chemicals is protected as well as the protection of the environment and society as a whole, i voted in favour of this report to allow the proposal for a council decision authorising the member states to ratify convention no 170 on chemicals for adoption as soon as possible.
moreover, convention no 170 not only provides for greater protection for workers but also for the environment and society as a whole.
this convention is an important instrument for the protection of workers, the environment and society as a whole, in order to guarantee health and safety at work.
the agreement provides a framework for partnership which will promote the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of resources.
the treaty on the functioning of the european union recognises that the structural situation of these regions, characterised by their remoteness, insularity, small size, difficult terrain and climate and economic dependence on a limited number of products, seriously undermines their development.
demand for renewable energy, including wind power, will increase significantly, but markets will change.
the development of this type of technology will have an impact on all sectors of the economy, particularly in areas such as healthcare, energy, public services and education.
the new legislation will improve environmental management and protection.
in order to rebuild and maintain stocks, it is imperative that the maximum sustainable yield is respected.
this would make the fisheries sector sustainable, but also profitable, including for the industries.
these criteria must be of an ecological, social and economic nature.
fleet segments that prove to create more than average jobs and have less than average adverse environmental effects will be able to benefit.
the main objective is the sustainable exploitation of deep-sea fish stocks, reducing fishing incidents and ensuring an exchange of information on scientific assessments.
it is important that the fishing industry works in collaboration with scientists to develop more profitable but also more sustainable fisheries.
in this respect, vessels using trawls or gillnets will be able to benefit from financial support from the european maritime and fisheries fund to use new gear that will have a more limited impact on the environment and the ecosystem.
i welcome this report, which strikes the right balance between cost-effectiveness and protection of the marine environment.
environmental disaster, financial deficit, fuel consumption that exceeds the limits (half a liter of diesel for a kilo of fish caught), fish stocks that do not have time to regenerate: let's be clear, deep-sea fishing is not sustainable!
it is our duty to react quickly and as best we can to minimize human, environmental and material losses resulting from major disasters.
the report also includes a preventive element, which consists of strengthening regional cooperation, establishing a risk map and preventing disasters in a sustainable way.
achieving the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy for sustainable growth and learning from the crisis, in line with the g20 roadmap, requires a stable, robust, efficient and competitive internal mortgage market.
our objective should therefore be to achieve a sustainable internal market in mortgage lending.
it is essential to stress that the regulation must be in line with the general provisions of article 208 tfeu and the general objectives of sustainable economic development, decent working conditions in bangladesh and poverty eradication in bangladesh.
i welcome the adoption of this report on greenhouse gas emission allowances.
as we know, the ets, the union's emissions trading system, is an essential tool in the policy of combating greenhouse gas emissions for the european union.
but following the economic crisis, we saw that the ets had some dysfunctions, including undervaluing the carbon price, which did not allow the necessary investments in sustainable low-carbon technologies.
due to a growing surplus of emission allowances on the market, the price of co2 emission permits has become so low that companies have little incentive to emit less greenhouse gases.
the measures proposed in this report should raise the price of co2 emission allowances to a level that provides sufficient incentives for european industries to pollute less and invest more in low-carbon innovation, which will reduce greenhouse gas emissions and combat climate change.
− the cornerstone of european climate policy has been threatened for months by an overabundance of co2 rights.
co2 trading should reward sustainable innovation, green energy and industry leaders.
unfortunately, this is not the case now, because the cost of a ton of co2 emissions is now about the same as that of a hamburger.
this extremely low carbon price does not discourage pollution and does not discourage investment in a green economy.
these investments are needed to create jobs and to combat climate change.
this is a first provisional step to redress the excesses of the emissions trading system and that is why i voted in favour.
the transnational challenges facing the industry (such as global warming) add to the alarming situation of the sector.
however, i believe that it needs to be strengthened in order to bring the european automobile market closer together and make the sector more competitive and sustainable.
the european union must also focus on innovation that will ensure the economic, ecological and social sustainability of the sector.
− the cars 2020 programme was developed by the european commission to support the competitiveness and sustainability of the automotive sector.
this own-initiative report by the european parliament on the proposed programme contains some green points, but misses the point on what is needed to achieve a green transition towards an energy-efficient and less polluting automotive industry.
the report does not clearly recognise that an energy-efficient and low-carbon industry is the key to innovation and competitiveness of the european automotive industry, while benefiting consumers and the environment.
addressing climate change must remain at the heart of our action.
the firm negotiations conducted by our rapporteur - whom i commend for her work - and our committee chairman, the fictitious rapporteurs, as well as some of our allies among the negotiators in the council, and with the help of the commission, have ensured the sustainability of the fund, one of the few european supports for workers.
it will in particular result in the strengthening of links in the fields of culture, education, the environment, technology and science, the intensification of people-to-people contacts and sectoral cooperation, and the consolidation of political relations in favour of the eastern partnership and the association agreement.
the conclusion of the protocol will lay the foundations for the gradual opening up of certain eu programmes to armenia or for the country's increased participation in them, thus allowing not only closer links in the fields of culture, education, the environment, technology and science, intensified people-to-people contacts and sectoral cooperation, but also the consolidation of political relations in favour of the eastern partnership and the association agreement.
after the text has been corrected, we have voted as follows: preserving peace, preventing conflict, strengthening international security, assisting people, countries and regions facing natural or man-made disasters, and promoting the sustainable economic, social and environmental development of these countries, with the essential aim of eradicating poverty, are among the principles and primary objectives of the union's external action within the meaning of article 21 of the treaty on european union.
crises and conflicts affecting countries around the world and other factors such as challenges and threats related to terrorism, organised crime, climate change and cybersecurity, as well as natural disasters, pose a threat to global stability and security.
to ensure a stable future for the sector and to avoid the depopulation of rural areas, with the negative economic and environmental consequences that this entails, additional measures are needed at european level.
the world will experience more and more natural disasters due to climate change, population growth and countries in conflict.
it also recognises the challenges posed by climate change and stresses that adaptation to climate change requires consideration of resilience and cpr initiatives.
these figures illustrate the importance of responding to our high expectations and creating a friendly environment for all eu citizens on an equal footing.
i also welcome the commission's intention to develop instruments to facilitate consumer access to transparent, comprehensible, comparable and reliable information on the prices, quality and sustainability of goods and services.
in times of economic crisis, when unemployment is high, energy prices are rising, raw materials are becoming scarce and dependence on imports is increasing, sustained economic growth coupled with improved employment is essential to ensure social cohesion.
this is achieved through eco-innovation, a concept combining environmental protection, growth, competitiveness and job creation.
green innovations are essential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to use resources such as water and raw materials more efficiently, to promote greater use of recycled materials and to produce quality products with a lower environmental impact, and to develop more environmentally friendly production processes and services.
eco-innovation can take many forms, from a new water filter to clean waste water, to thinner, stronger steel to reduce the consumption of raw materials, to a new business model to sell repair services rather than products.
in the same vein, i have tried to amend the commission's proposal in the committee on the environment, but to no avail.
i agree in principle with the transitional arrangements proposed by the commission as i believe that full application of eu law as soon as possible is the best way forward for the environment, public health and animal welfare on the island.
a second set of amendments relates to waste water collection systems and the thresholds above which agglomerations will have to set up such systems.
secondly, the large number of applications received each year shows that the initiative motivates citizens and organisations to implement strategies that aim at sustainable development, with a beneficial effect on both the social and economic levels.
i stress that green infrastructure can play a particularly important role in cities, where it can provide services such as improving air quality, mitigating the effect of 'urban heat island' at local level, providing recreational areas, retaining rainwater and fighting flooding, maintaining groundwater levels, restoring biodiversity or curbing its erosion, improving the health and social conditions of citizens and improving the overall quality of life, including through the provision of accessible and affordable spaces for physical activity; stresses the link between green infrastructure and public health and considers that investments in green infrastructure are also good for public health.