in the light of the negotiations currently taking place between the council and parliament, these reports make a very valuable contribution to the best possible management of the challenges of territorial cooperation, urban areas and energy policy.
whether we are talking about resource efficiency, a low-carbon economy or strengthening europe's innovation hub, cities have a prominent role to play and must be included.
the same applies, of course, to sustainable energy policy.
i thank mrs kolarska-bobińska for her impressive report and can assure you that i share her view of the importance of cohesion policy for energy policy.
we also need tailor-made solutions in energy policy to meet the specific challenges of each region, in energy efficiency as well as in renewable energy.
opportunities for community-led local development and integrated territorial investment support sustainable impacts on local communities.
− the new budget allocates significantly more resources to the energy sector than previous budgets and represents a decisive step towards greater energy security for the european union.
this is also directly linked to the diversification of energy sources that supports the 'low-carbon economy'.
i support the report mainly because it supports the decentralisation of energy sources within the framework of cohesion policy.
energy diversity requires that the many regional actors in europe - regardless of differences in administrations, capacities and experience - are able to benefit from the availability of different development programmes.
the exclusive focus on individual aspects of cohesion and energy policy (such as global warming) can sometimes prevent us from making an unbiased assessment of the eu's real state of affairs.
i say again that any step towards greater energy security and independence - and this report certainly is one - must always receive our support.
negotiations are further hampered by the argentine government's decision to re-establish control over the energy sector.
we liberals believe that human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law, as well as environmental and social standards, should be an integral part of this free trade agreement.
we know that the eu and its member states have an important role to play, and we should be at the forefront of international efforts to combat violence against women, as we were with global efforts to stop climate change and strive for a more sustainable future.
at the same time, the financial sustainability of national health-care systems has been put under greater pressure by the combined effect of the economic crisis and the ageing of our population, of which we have just spoken.
the european parliament has demonstrated its willingness to play an active role in the drawing up of this legislation with a report strongly supported by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety last december.
two other key elements for the financial sustainability of national healthcare systems are the shortened timelines for generic medicines and the non-interference of intellectual property rights with pricing and reimbursement procedures.
the commission's position on the amendments the commission can accept amendments nos 2, 5, 6, 9, 12, 19, 24, 34, 37, 38, 39, 43, 49, 51, 57, 58, 59 and the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
just one word ahead of this vote, regarding amendment 1 from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) which introduces a dual legal basis for the proposed directive.
we see a disintegration of the security sector, with security tools being used against political opponents and to restructure the economic environment.
this environment is a function of bad management.
declassified documents in the bulgarian parliament even show how during the time of the bsp prime minister sergey stanishev, with the minister of energy rumen ovcharov, secretly, without any public procurement procedures, their close associate negotiated a nuclear fuel deal with russia.
bulgaria is home to just over 7 million european citizens who, like everyone else, are struggling with the crisis, unemployment, the declining level of european services, the lack of effective institutions, and the confrontational environment that is being created by the country's rulers.
and that's very important for those who want to change that environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the energy roadmap to 2050 is an important benchmark for the union's energy policy, the long-term energy objectives and strategy on which cooperation between member states will be built in the coming decades.
i thank the rapporteur for covering all energy aspects in a pragmatic and objective way, avoiding the dogmatic bias of absolutely favouring renewable energy as the only solution to our energy future.
hundreds of billions of euros flow out every year for the supply of energy.
i therefore welcome the increased priority in energy policy of the discovery and exploitation of local energy sources as the most significant factor in reducing our energy dependence.
europe will inevitably rely on renewable energy as a future major energy source, but much greater coordination between countries is needed to achieve more efficient investment, more rational use of regional potential and specificities for renewable energy for the benefit of europe as a whole.
the achievement of energy objectives requires a fully interconnected energy infrastructure allowing for the integration of smart grids and decentralised energy sources.
i share the need for joint investment to accelerate energy integration and exchange good practices in making networks smarter.
this is an important step towards a common understanding of the risks and safety of nuclear energy.
i do not support those who want to artificially increase the cost and price of nuclear energy.
today, the european union needs at least to keep energy prices down if we are to be competitive on the world market.
because we care about the country and its people, because it is the largest country in the eastern neighbourhood, and because it plays an important role in security in the region and in smooth energy supplies to the eu, etc.
the judicial system is also seen to have people who want to change it and create an environment of intolerance towards the negative manifestations in it.
the report also balances the greening of the cap and the needs of farmers, keeping the measures proposed by the commission to better protect the environment, but at the same time making them more acceptable and less burdensome for farmers.
mr chairman, colleagues, i do not support either the commission proposal or the report adopted in the committee on the environment on the temporary withdrawal of a large number of carbon allowances from the emissions trading scheme.
the aim is to achieve an artificial reduction in the supply of allowances, thereby stabilising emissions trading at higher price levels.
the surpluses came from the contraction of national economies and the decline in energy consumption.
given the economic environment, the perspectives and the scarcity of resources, efficient and correct use of the budget of the european union becomes a more and more important issue.
that's why we liberals support opening up chapters 23 and 24 and chapter 15 on energy.
fourteen initiatives are currently registered with the commission; they cover a very broad range of areas – media pluralism, public goods and services, education, animal testing, climate change, voting rights, roaming charges, speed limits and mobility.
so far, eu citizens have exercised their right of initiative 14 times on a wide range of issues - from education, voting rights and climate change to animal testing, media pluralism and roaming charges.
there is no doubt that renewable energy will become increasingly important because of the urgent need to reduce energy dependence on conventional energy sources and to achieve a clean energy supply for european industry.
the use of over 170 incentive schemes has led to a large growth of the renewable energy sector, but at the same time a significant financial burden has been imposed on consumers and despite the subsidies, the competitiveness of renewable energy is weak compared to traditional energy production methods.
however, i believe it is imperative to create a single eu-wide system of support for renewable energy based on the crucial advantages of a technology-neutral european market for renewable energy certificates and mandatory shares for renewable energy production.
this is the only way to unlock the overall potential of renewable energy in the most cost-effective way possible for the different renewable energy technologies and to create competition between them.
when it comes to protecting the environment, eu countries always strive for the highest standards.
firstly, it is the distortion of the economic environment and of competition.
- the use of best practices for risk control by oil and gas companies operating in european maritime areas; - implementation of best regulatory practices in member states with offshore oil and gas activities; - strengthening the union's preparedness and response capacity in the event of emergencies threatening citizens, the environment or the economy; - the definition of a clear legal framework for liability and compensation for damage caused.
let the achievement of less energy dependence of the country through its own gas production be done according to the most modern and safe rules.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of radioactive waste, which is a key element of the directive.
the results of the elections in bulgaria have led to the paradox the first political force gerb to remain in opposition, at the expense of a coalition of political forces with incompatible platforms on strategic issues such as tax, social and energy policy, formed by the chairman of the pes, with the support of the ultra-nationalist ataca party.
i would also like to make the point that the rapporteur has made significant improvements to the commission approach by proposing, for example, that food intended for use in energy-restricted diets should continue to be subject to specific legislation.
− we need more and better affordable communal housing, despite the recession, the difficulties of the construction industry and the imposition of high environmental standards.
this approach allows for the alignment of municipal housing policies with key union objectives such as poverty reduction, promoting active inclusion, sustainable urban development, combating global warming and avoiding macroeconomic imbalances.
in addition to economic and environmental considerations, equal treatment of all europeans and transparency of service prices as well as maximum convenience for citizens must be ensured in order to avoid any obstacles to free movement within the union.
the achievement of a compromise is key to ensuring a stable and predictable environment for investors as well as for member states when programming their budgets and preparing large long-term investment projects.
and this is not just about carbon emissions, but it's about a particularly pressing issue, particularly global food shortages.
production of biofuels from energy feedstocks grown on food-producing land.
biofuels, of course, are an important tool in the energy mix, and we need to maintain a balance between the three areas: environment, agriculture and economy.
economic models used to estimate the amount of indirect land-use change emissions give different results depending on the assumptions made, highlighting the need for a more precise methodology to measure these negative effects.
we must be consistent in our actions, and that is why i am strongly against including a factor for npps in the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions.
the commission considers that the objective of the measure is to reduce the environmental impact of the use of biofuels by reducing the environmental impact of the use of biofuels.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mrs buzek on her comprehensive report, which realistically addresses the problems and proposes measures to achieve a truly functioning internal european energy market.
two circumstances are particularly important for this energy market: the existence of sufficient technical connectivity between the parties and the operation of common rules for the functioning of the market.
however, the necessary links for the bidirectional transmission of energy between the countries have not yet been established, nor have the documents of the third energy package been fully implemented.
a study on the possibility of creating a special fund for investments in energy networks on the basis of a european consumption tax is also mandatory.
i welcome the texts which require: - an urgent analysis of energy price formation in individual countries to clarify anti-competitive practices and the implications for consumer bills; - the abolition of the principle of indexing gas to oil prices and the renegotiation of old contracts based on outdated pricing mechanisms.
and second, to provide them with a competitive environment in which to operate.
all of this can only be sustainable if young people are involved in the formulation of these decisions.
in writing - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the main objective of the proposal to amend the fuel quality and renewable energy directives is to avoid the negative effects of biofuel production linked to greenhouse gas emissions and indirect land use change.
i regret to note that both the commission proposal and the report of the parliament's environment committee are based on questionable data on adverse effects and therefore propose inadequate measures.
the proposal to introduce schemes and measures to prevent risks and adverse effects, including improper land use, to support the development of sustainable, risk-reduced practices for biofuel production was much more acceptable.
i welcome the vote on a higher ceiling for first generation biofuels, as well as the setting of specific targets for second generation biofuels, which will preserve sustainable planning and investment in the development of new technologies.
finally, on illicit trade, i welcome the fact that the proposed measures against illicit products – including a tracking and tracing system and a security feature – have been largely accepted both by parliament’s committee on the environment and by the council.
the council also called for appropriate and sustainable funding.
the mutual understanding we build in these meetings, and the concrete solutions we find to issues that would otherwise become barriers to trade and investment, help to create a stable trade and investment environment that is protective of intellectual property and conducive to better trade and investment flows.
with the development of industry and information technology, as well as green energy - sectors with high added value and a source of growth in both the eu and taiwan - new jobs will also be created.
in this sense, a greater boost to trade in the ict industry could represent an important source of growth for our economies, all of this, of course, by ensuring trade practices in line with the rules of the multilateral system and by establishing binding clauses in such sensitive areas as social and environmental standards and corporate social responsibility.
this is a european problem and requires eu expertise and financial support, making the most of the dedicated funds beyond 2014.
in writing - mr mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, in voting on the amendments to the environmental impact assessment directive for specific public and private projects, my group lost some key votes.
because it's clear that these studies should be done to know what we have and whether there's a commercial extraction that we can rely on to solve our energy problems.
the conclusion for all of us is that shale gas in the eu is too complex a problem and all the risks associated with it need to be adequately addressed, regardless of the considerations of less energy independence, lower energy prices and economic competitiveness.
the goal of these provisions is to enable a less costly transition for all in the value chain and to ensure the protection of the environment and human health.
i am happy that my colleagues in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety welcomed my proposal and fully supported it.
mercury-containing button cell batteries would be banned from the market from the autumn of 2015. this is a great step which will prevent about five tonnes of mercury per year from escaping into the environment in the european union.
it will give a strong positive signal regarding cadmium and mercury, and will eliminate these toxic metals from the environment.
− mr president, honourable members, you are invited to approve an update of the eu directives on batteries and accumulators and waste batteries and accumulators.
the revised legislation should contribute to better protection of the environment and human health by clarifying some key provisions in a directive which will also help to improve enforcement.
as ms mcguinness said, this is good for the health of citizens, it is good for the environment, and i think that it gives the necessary clarity to entrepreneurs and businesses.
there is a solution that will be good for the environment and good for people, and it will enable poorer countries in this really difficult social period to get the supply they need to buy these batteries.
this is being done in a very complex political environment, which, as we have seen in the last few weeks, is rapidly evolving.
ukraine should do everything possible and urgently to improve the deteriorating business climate in the country.
i consider it extremely important to add additional provisions which should be established in order to ensure that recycling and treatment of waste is carried out in an environmentally sound manner.
− i voted against the corina kreţu report because i think the issues it touches on, on local authorities and civil society and europe's commitment to support sustainable development, are rather general and vague.
educational programmes should be adapted to the unique cultural and social context of their environment and fully respond to their needs for integration and a decent life, as well as to the economic development of the country of residence.
i think that's what the current political climate requires.
this is not sustainable or possible.
these priorities are the subject of extremely important work in a complex geopolitical environment political and financial crises, complicated relations with our partners and third countries.
to that end, it's time for a strategic rethink of the security environment.
there are many activities in our society which involve the use of ionising radiation, such as medical diagnosis and cancer treatment, various industrial applications, energy production and applications in security screening.
as regards certain species exposed to ionising radiation and their maximum permitted levels, we in the environment committee went beyond what was originally proposed by the european commission to include more ambitious and stringent safety measures in order to reduce as much as possible the risks to public health.
the aim of this directive was to provide a more effective instrument for the protection of public health, workers and the environment against the dangers arising from ionising radiation.
it is indeed worth paying special attention to, and we shall certainly do so in the committee on the environment.
the introduction of a separate chapter in the environmental protection directive would at present only have a general significance, since the effects of radiation on plant and animal species cannot yet be established on a scientific basis.
the environment is one of the pillars of sustainable development.
the fact that people's well-being depends on environmental policies poses many challenges for the european union.
on the one hand, because the european union is a leader in these policies, on the other hand, environmental problems know no borders.
the seventh environmental programme is an ambitious and higher step with which we want to increase our contribution to the transition to a resource-efficient, low-carbon economy.
greening the economy requires a high level of synchrony in the transfer of environmental components, in the characteristics of goods and services in the market.
today we talk about green technology, green growth, green jobs that this program will provide, but at the same time we have a hard time solving the problems of climate change, of the accumulation of tons of waste, of the pollution of water basins.
sometimes the environmental burden is hard to bear by national businesses, for example in carbon trading, or by citizens, for example in the case of renewable electricity.
dear mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 'welfare within the framework of our planet' is the name of the new european environment action programme to 2020, which should also offer an ambitious and realistic vision for 2050. the name itself reflects the conflict between economic activity and environmental protection and the need to reconcile them in the context of sustainable development.
in times of economic crisis and budgetary austerity, environmental protection policies could easily be seen as a constraint and a burden on economic growth and employment.
environmental action requires considerable costs, but inaction would cost even more.
environmental concerns should therefore no longer be a variable but should be integrated as an integral part of the various sectoral policies.
because the idea of green growth is based on an economy that uses less or better energy and raw materials, that produces and consumes in a rational way, avoiding waste, that controls emissions and waste, ultimately reducing pressure on the environment.
− i welcome the report by mrs neves on improving seabed mapping for fisheries purposes, on the assumption that knowledge of the marine environment is essential to achieving the objectives of the 'europe 2020' strategy, and that the development of the 'blue economy' is a key factor in the implementation of the strategy.
i also welcome the proposals for sustainable and cohesive territorial development of areas dependent on fishing.
i agree that the emff should support the development, competitiveness and sustainability of fisheries.
- conscious of the economic motivation and without neglecting the environmental benefits, i voted against the gaston franco report.
in addition, i would like to note that if environmental commitments are undertaken at european and international level, the likely lack of political will and the difference in implementation between member states could lead to additional administrative burdens.
the text of the directive laying down basic safety standards for protection against the dangers arising from exposure to ionising radiation has been optimised in a meaningful way by including necessary additions, such as the recommendation to distinguish between existing exposure situations linked to natural radioactivity and existing exposure situations due to human activity, additions on a thorough study of the impact that ionising radiation has on both people and the environment, the effective management of nuclear accidents with cross-border consequences, etc.
my thanks also go to president barroso and commissioner lewandowski and to president van rompuy and our heads of state and government, who paved the way for an agreement at their february meeting, and of course to my various predecessors in the council presidency, all of whom have put a huge amount of work and energy into this matter since the commission brought forward its proposal on the mff more than two years ago.
- i welcome the scholz report, as it takes account of the benefits of the amendment: the public procurement agreement (ppa) seeks, through several explicit provisions, to meet the objectives of establishing a fair level playing field, while providing sufficient scope for policy decisions and diversity, environmental protection, etc.
as a representative of a member state with an outstanding contribution in the field of sport, i consider education and training to be key elements of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, as well as of the integrated guidelines for the economic and employment policies of the member states, and with a view to improving skills and tackling high levels of youth unemployment in many member states.
in order to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to stimulate job creation, the union needs modern and high-performance infrastructure that contributes to the connectivity and integration of the union and all its regions, in particular in the areas of transport, energy and telecommunications.
the connecting europe facility will contribute to the objective of growth and competitiveness: by providing the public transport engineering sector with the means to implement infrastructure projects; by stimulating research, technology transfer and development (financial and operational) in these sectors; by providing the eu with sound, efficient and reliable transport, energy and telecommunications systems that contribute to the global competitiveness of the eu economy, to the harmonious and integrated functioning of the union by improving economic, social and environmental performance and territorial integration.
i consider it extremely important to establish a framework for bilateral or multilateral cooperation to prevent and control pollution of transboundary watercourses and to ensure rational use of water by countries outside the unece region as well.
in addition to developing fusion energy production, it aims to support research activities on radiation protection, the development of future fusion technologies and power plants, and to promote innovation and the competitiveness of the sector.
but in addition, i would like to note that the fusion programme should do further research into the socioeconomic, environmental and safety issues associated with the introduction of fusion as a future energy source to be included in the energy mix.
the final burial of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste is a serious problem and needs to be addressed a fact that i argue as a member of the european parliament from bulgaria a country with old nuclear reactors that the international community has concluded are too old and could not be economically upgraded to meet the minimum required safety standards.
because it is the fulfillment of the eu's commitments since the three countries' accession to the union, when they were forced to prematurely stop nuclear capacity, which created negative consequences for the energy of the three countries and a too serious, even unbearable financial burden.
i regret to note that the new regulation adopted will end the possibility of financing projects under the so-called non-nuclear window, which in previous periods contributed significantly to the rehabilitation of the energy grid and the replacement plants.
while we are talking about sustainable development, smart specialisation and social innovation, in the poorest regions of the union along the danube, people live on less than €200 a month.
not only is this a waste of talent, it is also a missed opportunity to make better decisions leading to better financial results in the highest bodies of our listed companies.
in terms of the current economic environment, as numerous qualitative studies have demonstrated, there is a positive relationship between gender diversity at top-management level and a company’s financial performance and profitability.
smart, inclusive and sustainable growth can only be achieved by seriously mobilising and integrating the community's scientific, educational and industrial resources.
developing entrepreneurial spirit and skills is one of the most sustainable ways to tackle youth unemployment.
in this connection, i would like to draw attention to three main points: first, ten years after the last eu security strategy, the council should launch a process of strategic re-thinking of the security environment with a new timeframe and political guidelines to reach a consensus among member states on the prioritisation of eu threats and objectives.
they are not a waste of european money, they are a waste of national resources which must compensate for the mistakes made with european money, and here the commission should rather say what measures it is taking to ensure that european taxpayers do not lose money through the european budget and that the national authorities are engaged in this matter.
given that this sector is currently facing serious problems related to stagnating demand in our markets and increasing competition from fast-growing external economies, we need to set the political direction for its sustainable development.
moreover, considering factors such as the gradual change in the use of energy sources and the shift towards the digitisation of components and functions, a comprehensive rethink of our approach to mobility in the 21st century is needed.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to encourage and create an enabling environment for volunteering in europe.
the creation of an enabling environment for the development of volunteering is possible through legislative regulation in the member states and through the reduction of the administrative burden on organisations in the field.
yet irreversible and sustainable reforms cannot be achieved with financial means alone.
we are expressing this view in the on-going discussions on the sustainable development goals.
the forum gave the eu an opportunity to highlight the importance it places on engagement with civil society as a key component of the transition, and to discuss the key challenges facing the country, including human rights, reconciliation, minorities and the quest for sustainable peace.
this instrument takes account of the reality of a multipolar world where new emerging powers, with which we can no longer organise our relations in the logic of development aid, become strategic partners in a competitive environment.
it is of particular importance for their economy, social stability, environmental quality and land use.
therefore, a stable future for the sector must be ensured, depopulation of rural areas and negative economic and environmental consequences avoided.
the expansion of maritime activities in coastal areas, the intensification of the exploitation of water resources and the intensification of industrialisation pose a number of challenges for the protection of the environment and the development of marine areas.
we are seeing landslides and the generation of huge amounts of waste, and in fact a large proportion of the european union's population lives in coastal areas and we need to ensure a high standard and a clean environment for everyone.
mr president, tackling the loss of biodiversity is of vital importance as we are well aware that it is closely linked to human wellbeing.
our actions are needed not so much for the sake of achieving our 2020 climate objectives or our international commitments under the aichi biodiversity targets and the strategic plan for biodiversity: first and foremost they are needed to protect nature for future generations.
this means that ecological elements should be integrated at the very early stages of planning and developing infrastructure in urban, rural and coastal areas.
besides the ecological and public health benefits, such an innovative approach will contribute to the creation of sustainable green jobs.