a more effective union with sustainable policies that enhance employment, growth and social cohesion.
the cyprus presidency devoted much energy and energy to the issue of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, as was the mandate given by the european council last june.
we have a duty to reverse the climate of disillusionment with the european union, which is growing in the societies of our countries.
this next chapter will be about building confidence by further strengthening our economic governance, by completing the banking union and by exploiting every means possible to create growth – sustainable growth – and jobs and to address the most pressing social problems in our countries.
we have yet to prove the sustainability of this process.
the howitt report calls, among other things, for a practical commitment by companies to sustainable economic recovery by securing jobs for young people, women, vulnerable groups, pension sustainability, decent wages and tackling exploitation, so as to ensure labour and human rights within the company.
it also calls for the involvement of enterprises in social, cultural and environmental activities for the benefit of society as a whole on a global scale.
i voted in favour of the new basic regulation because it sets ambitious targets to reverse the negative climate created by the current common fisheries policy (cfp).
the draft report proposes objectives, ambitious measures and amendments to the commission proposal to limit intensive overfishing, to restore stocks to the level of maximum sustainable yield by 2015, a transparent system of individual and collective fishing concessions, improved cooperation between member states and the actors involved and, in particular, transitional measures for the mediterranean.
overall environmental noise, and the noise generated by transport in particular can cause anxiety, psychological problems, cardiovascular diseases and cognitive impairment of children.
we also have a number of projects financed by the pre-accession instrument in south-east turkey, such as project m for the empowerment of women, a training project for children on mines and other waste products of conflict, and a project in support of local research on disappearances, unsolved murders and mass graves in south-east turkey.
but we also have programmes targeting the environment and transport infrastructures.
i voted in favour of the report because i believe that more attention should be paid to the environmental impacts of the individual on the microcosm and macrocosm in which he lives, which are a prerequisite for the long-term success of the european innovation partnership for active and healthy ageing.
− water quality is one of the most comprehensively regulated areas of eu health and environmental legislation, because safe drinking water for european citizens is both a right and a core concern of all policies in the fields of human health and environmental protection.
through social innovation and local know-how, they create sustainable jobs and long-term growth.
i voted in favour of this report because it will benefit both social businesses which will have easier access to investment funds, and many citizens through the creation of inclusive and sustainable jobs across europe.
− a high level of environmental protection is one of the fundamental objectives of the eu.
however, according to the latest environment reports, there is a serious implementation gap in key areas such as biodiversity, water, waste and air.
this unsatisfactory level of implementation of environmental law not only harms the environment and human health, but it also creates uncertainty for industry and obstacles to the single market.
the annual cost of non-implementation of eu environmental legislation is currently eur 50 billion in health costs and direct costs to the environment, rising to eur 90 billion from 2020 onwards.
the report proposes a number of initiatives on improved inspections and surveillance, criteria for dealing with citizens’ complaints, better access to justice in environmental matters and support for european networks of environmental professionals.
whilst strengthening the economic ties with china, we have to take into consideration that this country has emerged into an increasingly important global political power; it is therefore of primary importance that the basis for our partnership entails universal values, such as the promotion of democracy and human rights, global and regional security and energy security.
one of the other issues to be seriously considered is sex discrimination in media and advertising and certainly the role of education in combating the creation, sustainability, revival and development of gender-based stereotypes.
i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, how sustainable can a debt be in a country which has no potential for growth?
does such behaviour provide an incentive for cyprus or another state to open up the energy sector as the report calls for?
it is unacceptable to open ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, since there have been calls for the opening up of the energy capital and for the representation of the turkish cypriots in parliament, which may sound right and fair on the surface, i should like to explain why these proposals, if adopted, would circumvent basic principles of the european union.
turkey cannot be rewarded by opening chapter 15 (energy) for its harassment of the cypriot eez.
closer cooperation between all member states should also help towards cutting carbon emissions and other environmental issues.
in this sense, i strongly believe that a free and pluralist media environment must be a precondition for eu membership.
the report provides a good starting point for achieving an overall solid agreement on safe and sustainable pensions for europeans.
the economic/social crisis has hit housing markets in europe and leads to rising house and energy prices.
illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing is a serious global problem and one of the main obstacles to the achievement of sustainable world fisheries.
mr. erdogan is trapped in his own energy, paying for his own arbitrariness like a modern-day sultan.
finally it can help towards the fight against climate change and resolving current issues and conflicts in areas such as syria or the economic crisis in egypt.
moreover, they should keep promoting innovative sources of development funding to ensure sustainable development.
− water pollution and the unavailability of microbiologically clean and safe water, as far as its chemical composition is concerned, in many parts of the world are amongst the major environmental worries expressed by citizens worldwide and also in the eu.
it is of primary importance that water remains one of the most comprehensively regulated areas of eu environmental legislation because of its importance for human consumption, health and environmental protection.
it imposes additional restrictions on certain chemicals used in biocides, pharmaceuticals and plant protection products, thus reducing their presence in lakes, rivers, streams, groundwater aquifers and coasts, providing further protection to the environment and to the public health.
the european union, through the european commission, has put in place a development strategy for 2020. this is the perspective taken by this report on the formulation of objectives and measures to be taken to reconcile maritime activities and sustainable development.
the commission has also proposed a number of measures to encourage a high employment rate in the maritime sector while maintaining a high degree of scientific progress and environmental concerns.
the report on blue growth goes in line with this vision as it is the marine dimension of the europe 2020 strategy, focusing on smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in five areas there is a promising potential for job creation and innovative applications; blue energy, aquaculture, maritime and coastal tourism, marine mineral extraction, and blue biotechnology.
high-employment growth along with measures for the protection of the fragile marine environment and of mankind from serious diseases, as well as optimal use of energy must be an essential part of this strategic policy.
it can help europe to reduce its dependency on fossil resources by making the transition to a more resource-efficient society, strongly relying on renewable biological resources.
this will satisfy consumers’ needs and industry demand; will tackle climate change and eliminate negative impacts on the environment.
the report includes provisions for integration of science, business and society, promoting bioeconomy as a sustainable provider of employment and also as a motor for balancing social developments.
i do hope that bioeconomy can be an innovative tool for sustainable growth and a safe, healthy and prosperous environment for current and future generations, leaving behind unpleasant implications of the ‘old economic’ structure.
bio-economy could secure the environment ensuring a change for the better.
therefore i very much welcome this decision to extend the scope of the risk assessment and coordination measures to a wider range of health threats, including threats of biological, chemical, environmental or other origin.
there needs to be an improvement of corporate governance and support for banks to establish transparent organisational structures, more accountability and reinforcement of a responsible and sustainable remuneration system for high bank officials.
the eu must make full use of the untapped potential which exists, to contribute towards a balanced and sustainable social market economy.
eu member states should specifically invest in preventive policies on unaccompanied minors, focusing on ways to prevent poverty, improve health policies, restore human rights, and promote democratisation and post-conflict reconstruction in their countries of origin so as to ensure a better and safer environment for children to live in.
second, to introduce and strengthen guidelines to provide specialised training for medical staff to prevent sex-selective practices, to introduce supportive measures for girls and women, and to improve their access to education, healthcare and work without spousal authorisation, thus promoting an educational and social environment of equal opportunity.
− the eia directive is an extremely important legislative tool that aims to ensure that no potentially damaging project gets started without first undergoing a thorough evaluation of its potential effects on the environment.
a revision of this legislation is therefore necessary, not only to improve its implementation but also in order to take into account the political, legal and technical developments and bring the directive in line with the current eu environmental priorities.
these priorities include, among others, biodiversity, the use of natural resources, climate change and the tackling of new emerging natural and man-made threats and disasters.
a strengthened eia directive will improve the efficiency and simplification of procedures and will provide an appropriate background for projects and economic activities, with positive effects on the environment, human health and the economy.
local authorities in the member states can play a key role in the effectiveness of development policy in the eu, especially today, in a changing global environment characterised by significant economic, political and social challenges and crises.
building more democratic societies, diversity and creating a favourable development climate for ngos and local authorities must be eu priorities.
i voted in favour of the creative europe programme for several reasons: it will strengthen eu support for the cultural and creative sectors by highlighting the dual feature of culture, business and heritage; it will safeguard cultural diversity and boost the cultural sector’s competitiveness; it will build upon earlier union programmes and initiatives in the cultural and audio-visual fields, bringing together under a common framework, the current media, media mundus and culture programmes whilst maintaining their specific characteristics and identities; it will open up international opportunities and audiences for artists and professionals by establishing sustainable networks, supporting emerging talents and facilitating access to financing.
in this cef instrument there are three sectors of major importance for the future of the union and the european citizens, namely: transport, energy, and telecommunications; all of them could make a weighty contribution to achieving growth and competitiveness and reaching the eu 2020 strategic targets, as long as eu uses efficiently funds from the eu budget in the form of grants and financial instruments to help promote selected projects of european interest, without undermining the fact that there are regional territories and countries that lack skills and incentives and therefore need special focus.
budgetary and operational resources should be allocated to the facility in the next mff so that this mechanism can contribute towards returning the eu to the path of sustainable, inclusive and balanced growth.
gender diversity on boards leads to more sustainable decisions and therefore to a more resistant european economy.
the new erdf 2014-2020 supports regional and local development through co-financing of investments and encourages research, development and innovation in areas such as climate change, environment, business support to smes, services of common economic interest, telecommunications, energy and transport infrastructure, health, education, social infrastructure and sustainable urban development.
we welcome the extension of the cohesion fund's scope to include support for energy efficiency, the use of renewable energy sources in the housing sector and the waste and water sectors.
− better financing, management and monitoring of the cap will improve future evaluation of progress, efficiency and effectiveness of the europe 2020 economic, environmental and social challenges, for the agricultural and rural areas, through sustainable and inclusive goals.
these goals aim for: viable food production; sustainable management of natural resources; climate action and a balanced territorial development.
issues such as climate change, renewable energy, biodiversity and water management are becoming increasingly important aspects of the eu’s rural development policy.
the european agricultural fund for rural development aims: to strengthen and simplify the implementation of the rural development policy; to increase the competitiveness of agriculture and forestry; to improve the environment, the countryside, but also the quality of life and the management of economic activity in rural areas.
a balance between income support and new public challenges is something the reform is trying to achieve, by integrating environmental requirements through a strong greening component into the first pillar.
the commission’s proposal of thirty percent of direct payments will be given for greening requirements, so as to ensure that all farms deliver environmental and climate benefits.
financial, environmental, organisational and logistical factors must be seriously considered, in particular in the case of the seats of the european parliament.
horizon 2020 can give a significant boost to the economy and to smart and sustainable development by ensuring the scientific and technological base and competitiveness in the industrial arena.
to this end convention no 170 can be a key instrument for the prevention and reduction of chemically induced illnesses and injuries at work, also enhancing the protection of the general public and the environment.
the space manufacturing industry employed the equivalent of 34 500 people (2012 figures) full-time in eu member states (ms), an increase of roughly 20 % since 2006. the space industry contributes in many ways to the objectives of the euʼs economic strategy for this decade (the europe 2020 strategy) of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
it can be extremely beneficial for various sectors of the economy such as health care, energy, public services and education.
it also protects not only, first and foremost, people but it may also act on the environment and property, including cultural sites.
i welcome the fact that a stable and sustainable pan-european market and a more balanced relationship between lenders and borrowers is being sought, and that the european banking authority will also be able to carry out investigations into possible breaches or non-application of the rules by requesting information from competent authorities in the member states.
i voted in favour of the measures proposed by the european commission to defer the auctioning of part of the credits received or purchased by companies in the member states under the carbon trading scheme (ccts) because, given the economic crisis and the excessive surplus of emission allowances, i believe that the measures adopted by the european parliament will boost the price of emission allowances and encourage companies to invest in innovative low-carbon projects, as the cts is able to reward companies that contribute to combating climate change.
the eu needs to maintain a world-class car industry, producing the most energy-efficient and safe vehicles globally and thus providing high-skilled jobs to millions.
in addition to that, the industry is currently facing several changes, such as a shift in production and trade patterns, a more urgent climate agenda, more attention being paid to road safety, etc.
i voted in favour of this report believing that the cars 2020 action plan will reinforce the industryʼs competitiveness and sustainability heading towards 2020. improving and increasing competitiveness is crucial in creating jobs and wealth in europe.
in addition to the above, this protocol will create a legal basis for the armenian institutions to benefit from closer contacts with their eu counterparts, offering an opportunity to promote further cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links.
it is important: to maintain milk production in these areas and support at appropriate levels to satisfy consumption, without incurring costs of unreasonable transport; to ensure adequate compensation from pillar ii - cap; to encourage creation of partnerships for the promotion of agro-environmental tourism; and to proceed with innovative research in order to address challenges of productivity and climate change.
hence, sustainable development and further investment in drr and resilience strategies are seen as essential, whereby food security and nutrition must be enhanced in the programmes.
− eco-innovation, is a concept combining protection of the environment with growth, competitiveness and job creation.
environmentally friendly innovations are essential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to use resources such as water and raw materials more efficiently, to increase the use of recycled materials and to produce quality products with less impact on the environment.
in germany this sector already contributes 8% to the gdp, and is expected to rise to 14% by 2020. in austria, 4.8 % of all employees work within the green jobs sector, which, despite the economic crisis, rose by 0.6 % from 2010 to 2011. the global turnover in the greentech sector is expected to double to €3100 billion by 2020. in times of economic crisis and high unemployment rates sustainable job creation and economic growth is essential to secure social cohesion.
it confers international prestige, motivates citizens to implement strategies for sustainable development, and boosts tourism and competitiveness within the cultural and creative sectors.