because the current situation in proceedings before the eu institutions is no longer sustainable.
in this context, a long-term and credible strategy of fiscal consolidation in terms of expenditure and revenue is still needed, while striking a balance between strengthening sustainable growth, economic development and social protection.
− this own-initiative report assesses the results achieved in the current programming period and offers recommendations on how cohesion policy can better support the implementation of the eu's new energy priorities in the regions.
i can support most of these recommendations, including the call for energy savings to be given priority, which is why i voted for this report.
the basis is unsustainable working conditions, including safety, but also minimal to no social and environmental conditions.
competitiveness based on social and environmental dumping is not only immoral, it is also unsustainable.
these are the words of margaret thatcher, who, more than anyone else, recognised the key role of smes and the need to simplify the regulatory, administrative and financial environment in which they operate.
however, smes do not operate in a virtual environment separate from large, global companies moving around the world.
they are part of an economic ecosystem in which small, medium and large companies play an important role.
in the current situation, it is politically impossible to find a compromise between sustainable fishing and improving the economic situation of the fisheries undertakings.
the adoption of a maximum sustainable yield, an obligation to land all catches, a system of individual and collective fishing concessions and a fisheries partnership regulation with third countries, which would oblige third countries to follow the same approach as eu countries, is a priority.
the reform of the common fisheries policy is a unique opportunity to reverse the current situation, which inevitably leads to the collapse of the entire fisheries sector and to serious damage to the marine environment with irreversible consequences.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
the czech environmental inspectorate published some alarming information last year.
i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the colleagues on the committee on the environment for the excellent work they have done and for the positive response they have given to my proposal, which calls on the parties to the convention to limit the annual national quotas for the export of trophies of endangered species.
in this context, corporate responsibility for social responsibility, environmental protection and respect for human rights, including financial security, is of paramount importance.
almost everyone feels that businesses should be environmentally conscious, reduce energy and material consumption, and create a decent work environment for workers while acting responsibly in the place where they operate.
the supply chain and exhaust gas, liquid and waste should also be examined in the social responsibility assessment.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by mr miroslav ouzký, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the sound pressure level of motor vehicles (com ((2011) 0856 c7-0487/2011 2011/0409co ((d)) (a7-0435/2012).
− if you have the report presented by ulrike rodust proposes changes to eu fisheries policy and aims to: first, end overfishing by 2015 and move towards sustainable fishing practices; second, apply a precautionary approach and ecosystem-based fisheries management; third, benefit those who fish sustainably; and, last, use public resources to tackle the problem rather than encourage overfishing.
implementation of the 2020 strategy, climate change and the external policy of the european union.
however, i fundamentally disagree with the idea that public procurement should take more account of social and environmental considerations.
draftsman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
- mr president, i would like to recall some of the points made in the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of this parliament.
the planned energy infrastructure projects shall be consistent with the long-term climate and energy objectives of the european union and with the implementation of those objectives in the national energy policies of the member states.
the planning of energy infrastructure projects should also comply with the precautionary principle.
environmental protection requirements must be integrated into the energy infrastructure planning context and preference should be given to projects that do not entail unnecessary environmental costs.
the construction, operation and decommissioning of energy infrastructure involves environmental protection costs in addition to investment and operating costs.
the assessment of major risks requires a thorough assessment of the environmental impact of energy infrastructure projects, based on a case-by-case assessment and taking into account local and regional environmental conditions.
after the fukushima nuclear accident, it is important that people in europe know that nuclear energy meets safety standards and that the plants will continue to be very tightly controlled.
mr president, i need not remind anyone that nuclear energy is a standard part of the energy mix of the member states, the composition of which is decided by the individual states themselves.
the report under discussion has not only an environmental aspect but also a social one.
accounting for the stock of carbon bound in biomass will support forestry, a sector that is traditional in many areas, although somewhat neglected in recent times.
however, i am also concerned that the requirement to increase the amount of carbon bound in forests will have a negative impact on the quality of the vegetation and on forest management in general.
− i regard the new regulation as a positive initiative that will accelerate the creation of the internal energy market and the achievement of the eu's energy policy objectives.
the proposal contains a plan for the modernisation and interconnection of energy networks.
in the gas sector, i believe that the right way forward is to diversify energy sources and supply routes by storing liquefied natural gas (lng) and building a two-way pipeline.
i also support the supply of crude oil to landlocked countries and the construction of a carbon capture and storage pipeline linking production and storage facilities.
− i support this report, which creates an environment for online dispute resolution.
the proposed environment will take the form of an interactive website that will act as a single point of contact for consumers and traders seeking out-of-court settlement of a dispute arising in connection with a cross-border e-commerce transaction.
this online dispute resolution environment has the potential to remove consumer fears about buying goods in e-shops across borders and ultimately to boost e-commerce, broaden the supply of goods and services and increase competition in e-shopping.
i am glad that the water pollution chapter is receiving such attention, since it is an integral part of our lives.
the current two-track system with different conditions for the old and new member states is not sustainable in the common market.
european agriculture faces many challenges and reform of the common agricultural policy is not only a unique opportunity to tackle these problems, but also the only chance to reverse the negative environmental impact of agriculture.
the commission proposal proposes that the best way to tackle the problems of agriculture is to strengthen the ecological stability of the landscape at the level of each farm.
it is a payment linked to the observance of certain agricultural practices that have a positive impact on the climate and the environment.
in other words, every farmer will be obliged to follow rules that lead to the improvement of the environment and the promotion of public goods and values when drawing public money.
in addition to the objective indicators of soil erosion, loss of biodiversity and increasing pollution, it is important to bear in mind that according to a eurobarometer survey, 80% of eu citizens would make the receipt of cap subsidies conditional on better environmental protection and landscape management.
moreover, it is also an economic measure, since the preservation of the good ecological condition of the landscape is a prerequisite for long-term and sustainable management.
it is therefore necessary to ensure that investment in education, research and innovation and, at regional level, investment in support of smes, infrastructure, renewable resources and sustainable development are key in the 2014 budget.
many of these substances are poorly or not at all biodegradable and remain in the environment for decades.
without this strategic dialogue, without this strategic operation, there is no way we can solve security problems, financial problems, economic problems; and within this strategic dialogue let us talk also about human rights, how we see the situation, let us talk about environmental protection and about the many other aspects that we are supposed to talk about and deal with.
however, this system is not fully functional, distorts the competitive environment and should therefore be abolished as soon as possible.
− i believe that a fully integrated european energy market must be achieved by 2014. in this context, i would like to stress the importance of full application of internal energy market legislation in all member states and the need to ensure that no member state or region remains isolated from the european energy and gas network after 2015. it should be borne in mind that energy infrastructure projects are characterised by high initial investment and a service life of 20 to 60 years.
the current market environment is highly unpredictable, which is why investors are hesitant to develop energy infrastructure.
new strategies and innovative tools should therefore be encouraged to promote investment in infrastructure that will allow rapid adaptation to a rapidly changing environment.
i do not think that the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) is the best possible solution to reduce carbon dioxide emissions in the atmosphere.
but it's the only thing we have in europe at the moment, and it's practically the backbone of the whole eu climate policy.
but the whole system is in deep crisis because of overallocation of allowances, irresponsible policy decisions and the economic situation of the last few years, and the price of carbon is currently very low.
the original intention of the eu ets, which was primarily to promote investment in low-carbon technologies and energy efficiency, is failing to be fulfilled.
moreover, if we really want to reduce emissions, then we need to address this through a system of limits, rigorous monitoring of compliance and harsh penalties for their violation.
this error is also due to the fact that the european development fund provides assistance to countries such as those in sub-saharan africa, often in an environment of weak state institutions, high corruption probabilities and weak controls on aid recipients.
we talk about energy, another crucial point both for turkey and, above all, for the eu.
and it will play an important role in building the energy routes for the gas and oil that europe desperately needs to get from its neighbours to europe.
first of all, commissioner, i would like to express my appreciation for the efforts made by mr reul to have the most open discussion possible in this particular area of renewable energy.
the debate on renewables in europe has been going on for a long time, and in that time there has been a very dynamic development in the use of energy from so-called renewable sources themselves.
as a result, in an effort to promote renewable energy, many countries have resorted to various types of financial incentives, often including direct subsidies on the purchase price of energy so obtained, in order to be competitive at all.
it is often also linked, so to speak, to corruption and it greatly complicates and threatens the stability of energy networks.
the first thing to do is to make the economy dependent on the use of renewable resources, and i therefore oppose the attempt to set and increase such binding targets on a global scale.
the geographical and technical conditions of each country must be taken into account in order to really maximise the economic benefits that europe can derive from renewable sources.
renewable energy has a dual purpose.
they help to achieve europe's energy security alongside nuclear energy.
second, because they have a higher cost per unit of energy produced, they help create pressure to reduce energy demand, to introduce energy-saving technologies.
it would, however, be a mistake to try to achieve an energy monoculture, such as the ambitious plan to achieve 100% wind power coverage in scotland.
i think there are a number of unresolved problems which mr reul rightly points out, such as the problem of missing infrastructure in renewable energy sources, or the problem of connecting or combining small and large systems.
unlike the us, where president obama lifted the moratorium in 2011 and instead allowed more projects both in the gulf of mexico and off the coast of alaska, europe is moving towards protecting rig workers, protecting the environment, better communicating with the public and being more prepared for disasters.
the serious environmental concerns in this area require particular attention.
extracting oil and gas in such extreme conditions can cause irreversible damage to the entire ecosystem.
the envi committee recommended that member states introduce a moratorium on mining in the arctic, the resulting text only requiring compliance with the strictest environmental limits in the area.
the fight against tax evasion is also a fight for sustainable public finances and accessible public services.
i welcome the renewed emphasis on regional strategies, with a view to taking account of regional differences and not forgetting the issues related to environmental burden.
mr president, i see in the future of inland shipping an ecological alternative to combat congested roads, rising emissions and the risk of flooding.
examples include increasing the territorial coverage of investment-eligible regions from 45% to 47,5% or including large enterprises in type c regions for research, development and innovation, energy and environment and for risk capital as part of sectoral public aid rules.
it could also increase the energy efficiency of the housing sector.
it's clearly the rigidity of the business environment.
i also agree that the specific content of consumer policy needs to be brought closer to the citizens, especially in those countries where consumer awareness of their rights and the culture of the business environment are not yet at a satisfactory level.
in this context, i particularly welcome the calls for support for sustainable growth, employment, competitiveness and measures to improve the position of consumers in the internal market.
awareness of the environmental impact of medicines has increased significantly in recent years and, therefore, the commission proposed, on the basis of the latest scientific evidence, to include three pharmaceutical substances in the 15 new priority substances for water policy in 2012: the natural hormone 17β-estradiol and the synthetic hormone 17α-ethinylestradiol, both of which have endocrine disrupting properties, and the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug diclofenac.
this is the first time that a medicinal product has been included in the list of priority substances considered hazardous to the aquatic environment.
the commission proposal did not question their therapeutic effects, but only focused on the potentially harmful effects of their presence in the aquatic environment.
this is a very unsatisfactory result, especially in the context of the ever-growing threat of so-called endocrine disruptors in the environment and their impact on human health.
water pollution is also one of the biggest environmental problems for eu citizens.
according to a march 2012 eurobarometer survey, 68% of europeans believe that water quality and quantity problems are serious, and 80% of citizens believe that chemical pollution is a threat to the aquatic environment.
the vote will take place on tuesday, 2 july 2013.
the next item is the report by spyros danellis, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on blue growth: enhancing sustainable growth in the eu’s marine, maritime transport and tourism sectors (com(2012)0491 – 2012/2297(ini)) (a7-0209/2013).
mr president, i would like to address the president-in-office and say: ‘welcome and let me congratulate you and your country on the achievements of your country since independence, and also what you are achieving now.’ as we have already mentioned, your country is growing economically and unemployment is going down – which is quite rare in the current economic environment.
− i see the ets as one of the main pillars of eu climate policy.
postponing the issuance of part of the allowances is not a real solution to the emissions trading problems.
but most importantly - the system helps to reduce air pollution, which is a very pressing problem in our region, moravia-silesia.
- mr president, the european union's agricultural policy and the union's efforts to replace mineral fuels with so-called biofuels, which we interpret as part of measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
the gue group in the transport committee is particularly concerned with the priority use of arable land for growing food crops, and we want to protect this land while promoting the use of agricultural and food waste for the production of fuels, so-called second generation biofuels.
the main greenhouse gas savings, of course, are in reducing fuel and energy consumption across all sectors of the economy and in reducing the transportation burden of our civilization.
let us be kind to the food resources and to the environment and to the people in the third world.
the renewable energy directive sets a target of 20% of energy from renewable sources in eu energy consumption.
allowing wind farms to be built on farmland has also damaged the climate.
i welcome the commission's proposal to speed up the transition to modern biofuels from waste.
biological waste must be used.
i call for the inclusion of the need for sorting and subsequent treatment of biological waste in the eu.
the huge energy potential ends up in landfills and the fields are being used to grow other crops for biofuels.
but i am strongly opposed to the use of forest biomass for energy.
scientific research shows that the use of wood does not contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
forests and woodlands must be preserved as carbon sinks and natural climate-protection aids.
in 2008, the european parliament made a clear case for including an indirect land-use change factor in the greenhouse gas emission reduction calculation for biofuels.
independent studies have confirmed that indirect land change is real and that it can increase the carbon footprint of biofuels to the point where they have a worse carbon footprint than some traditional fossil fuels.
i support the rapporteur and the compromise reached in the committee on the environment and i firmly believe that we will not see the european union repeatedly ignoring the negative consequences of its climate policy.
mr president, the internal energy market is not currently meeting consumers' expectations, whether in terms of prices, quality of service or consumer protection.
i therefore welcome the fact that the report stresses the need to create a functioning energy market at european level, directed directly to the final consumer.
i see as positive in this respect, in particular, proposals to simplify conditions, allowing consumers to compare tariffs and choose the most advantageous supplier, or measures to save energy for households.
energy poverty is unfortunately a reality in europe.
− i am convinced that the commission is not sufficiently monitoring the implementation of eu energy legislation, especially the respect of consumer rights.
it is a problem for the internal energy market, since it affects the security of the energy system by limiting storage and network capacity.
the commission and the member states should better coordinate infrastructure-related projects and jointly plan network development, ensuring full interconnection and cost-effectiveness of networks across the eu, by benefiting from cross-border synergies and more efficient energy infrastructure networks.
the commission and the member states should ensure the rapid approval and implementation of projects for cross-border interconnection of electricity and gas transmission systems, including back-flows, lng and energy storage infrastructure and smart transmission and transport networks.
i believe that efforts to raise funds for energy efficiency investment projects often run into obstacles created by the market, legislation or uncertainties such as high initial costs on the part of investors and the difficulty of predicting the exact potential for energy savings.
it is in particular for member states to find appropriate ways to encourage investment in energy efficiency improvements in households.
the commission should therefore submit without delay proposals for available standardised financial instruments to support energy efficiency measures.
our job is to create a predictable regulatory environment here.
− the eu's biofuels policy is currently failing to meet its fundamental objective of reducing co2 emissions from european transport.
i am pleased that a sensible compromise has been found to set a ceiling of 6% for first-generation biofuels in the 10% share of renewable energy in transport by 2020. such reductions will not jeopardise existing investments, avoid unintended support for polluting biofuels and distort world food prices, and at the same time ensure adequate environmental protection.
i find cooperation with the belarusian authorities in areas such as trade, environment, migration, energy or customs issues to be natural, even if delayed.
– mr president, during the work on this file i used to say that it was not about biodiversity itself but about the implementation of the nagoya protocol or the convention on biological diversity.
i of course support all the outcomes of the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, but i call on all colleagues to please support the report and vote to grant the mandate to start negotiations, even if some of your choices fall into the dustbin during the vote tomorrow.
well, i'm not ashamed to be here defending the interests of those who have to live in that environment ruined by mining and have to drink water that is contaminated with carcinogens and have to breathe the air that remains there.
i am very pleased that the report addresses the conflicts of interest arising in environmental impact assessment.
the european parliament and council directive on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment (eia) is intended to be a major milestone and a step towards more rigorous environmental protection.
until now, projects have often had some importance for the economic development of a region, usually also co-financed by the eu budget, but often caused massive or long-term damage to the climate, soil or water in the area.
after its entry into force, all major public or private projects are to be reviewed in good time in terms of their immediate and future environmental impact.
it is estimated that over 30 000 environmental impact assessments will be carried out in the union each year.
however, i am very concerned that the directive does not include the possibility of preventing a project if it proves to be very harmful to its environment.
in fact, there is no policy in the union that is more important and strategic than environmental policy and food security through organic farming.
we're talking about how to ban smoking, but we should also be thinking about how to protect non-smokers in the environment where smokers are smoking recklessly.
i call on the commission and the member states to make full use of the available room for manoeuvre in the preventive arm of the stability and growth pact (sgp) to balance the need for productive and sustainable public investment with the objectives of fiscal discipline.
the vote will take place on wednesday, 9 october 2013. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on implementation of remit and the acer 2014 budget by amalia sartori, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000099/2013 – 2013/2723(rsp) - b7-0510/2013).
i find the vague definition of biodiversity very problematic, as it can easily become a tool of obstruction in construction management and can be abused by those who have new construction demolition as part of their job description.
i also disagree with the inclusion of shale gas exploration in the eia process, because it effectively means making it impossible and thus closing the door to any other energy source that could help solve the current energy crisis.
this alternative can further mitigate the potential surge in waste electrical equipment that a ban on the use of nickel-cadmium batteries would lead to.
given the sudden need to dispose of equipment for which temporary spare parts are no longer available, technological and environmental challenges can be expected due to the potential increase in waste electrical equipment, which can be technically addressed by the technological alternative of nickel-metal-hydride batteries.
if we look to the east, we will see that the association agreements and the deep and comprehensive free trade agreements are the right tools to enable our neighbouring countries to make sustainable reforms and systemic transformation on the basis of values such as human rights, civil rights, the rule of law and a socially-oriented market economy.
how can we help these countries become, for instance, more independent in terms of energy?
the vote will take place on wednesday, 23 october 2013. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by maria do céu patrão neves, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on marine knowledge 2020: ‘seabed mapping for promoting sustainable fisheries’ (2013/2101(ini)) (a7-0295/2013).
the need for investment in telecommunications, such as broadband internet, is currently high in the european union and the main need is to ensure predictability of the environment for investors.
the parties shall cooperate in the development of the fisheries sector and in the promotion of sustainable fisheries management.
i am for sustainable fishing and the preservation of the sector as a livelihood for the future and against the continuation of the mass fishing of the seas and oceans.
the report rightly goes beyond the 'classic' forms of organised crime, such as financial crime and drugs, and broadens the spectrum of organised crime to include illicit trafficking in waste, works of art and protected species, and counterfeiting of goods.
the demand for a continuous reduction in the number of regulations and their simplification is entirely logical and in this case the european commission has heard it, instead of 5 regulations there will be 1 and, moreover, its requirements are in many cases brought into line with the requirements of the international organisations working in this sector, namely the international atomic energy agency and the international commission for radiological protection, which give us common definitions and comprehensive control and surveillance mechanisms.
the cef report adds the interconnection of energy and telecommunications networks.
we will only continue to face the notorious problems of energy, telecommunications and transport.
i support the orientation of the new financial framework towards growth, development, environmental sustainability and job creation.
the vote will take place on thursday, 21 november 2013.
the next item is the report by marian-jean marinescu, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation and exploitation of european satellite navigation systems (com(2011)0814 – c7-0464/2011 – 2011/0392(cod)) (a7-0321/2013).
given that each plenary session requires the transport of 5 000 meps and staff and eight document trucks, the current situation also generates unnecessary environmental, organisational and logistical costs additional co2 emissions are estimated to be between 11 000 and 19 000 tonnes.
i consider it a significant change in horizon 2020 that energy issues are given a prominent place in the 8th framework programme compared to the 7th framework programme.
the energy budget in the eighth framework programme was therefore significantly increased, as requested by the european parliament in its numerous resolutions.
for instance, how we can speed up projects connecting the eu with those countries in terms of energy, so that there is energy security and these countries are not left to the mercy of their big eastern neighbour.