this ranges from urban development and the contribution of cities to the economy, to territorial development, territorial cooperation, energy policy and the contribution of energy policy to cohesion policy, to the solidarity fund.
cities are of particular importance to the rural environment and are themselves places of demographic development.
the eu council representatives have already expressed their views on the importance of sustainable urban development in various statements: in the bristol accord, the leipzig charter, and most recently in the toledo declaration.
cities are indeed the engines of social, equitable and, above all, sustainable growth.
at the same time, however, we must also recognise that urbanisation has its downsides: cities suffer from congestion, pollution, outdated infrastructure and demographic change.
in the negotiations on the erdf regulation we are currently working on improvements to achieve sustainable, ecological and social urban renewal.
we have repeatedly stressed the island's renewable energy potential in the cyprus talks.
unfortunately, we have found that the discovery of resources off the coast of cyprus has led to the hope of extending the fossil age being put on hold, and to a lesser extent to the development of small and mediumsized enterprises in the context of exploiting renewable potential.
we are certainly at a decisive stage in european politics in this year, 2013. there is no doubt that the cohesion of peoples and states in our community of states and nations is crucial for economic, ecological and monetary sustainability in ways that i and i believe all of you could not have imagined just a few years ago.
i am referring to the products of life in the energy sector, in other areas of infrastructure, including drinking water, where it is possible, and in my view even desirable, that we keep them in the hands of the state and not simply sacrifice them to a false idea of liberalisation.
reliability and sustainability in energy policy are renewable energies for me as austrian prime minister.
i know that a change in energy policy is easier for some, more difficult for others and very difficult.
but nuclear energy, nuclear energy is not a sustainable policy.
(applause from the centre) in the case of nuclear energy, as has been shown since fukushima at the latest, it is not possible to control how final storage, or even intermediate storage, can be safely operated in the future.
and i am convinced that the safest thing in europe is not a nuclear power plant, but renewable energy.
i also firmly believe that we are also responsible for the generation that will have to ask itself in several generations how to deal with what we produce today, including nuclear waste.
so this is also a sustainable policy.
and let me mention, in another area, the austrian commitment to clean and renewable energies as a key contribution to fight climate change and strengthen our economies.
the green group's final statement on nuclear energy is as follows: all right, all right, all right.
the privatization, the liberalization of public property, public goods, public services, the privatization of social security systems, the denial of minimum social protection, of environmental protection standards is one of our great obstacles.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its obligations under the treaty.
whether it was a matter of systematically incorporating environmental risks into the ratings, of regulating conflicts of interest more strictly, or whether it was a matter of coordinating a common taxation in europe to finally tax the 40% return on the turnover of the rating oligopoly and use that money, for example, to set up a european credit rating foundation: all of this was rejected.
the very title of the irish presidency's programme 'stability, jobs, growth' shows that combating poverty in the eu and worldwide, combating social exclusion and also environmental destruction are not top priorities of your programme.
the presidency's programme is neither based on the problems of greek people's lives nor does it correspond to the eu's overall sustainability strategy.
the reindustrialisation of europe requires the combination of competitiveness and sustainability to achieve sustainable growth, as mr barroso has called it.
this is not just industrial policy in general, it is a resource efficiency roadmap, it is energy efficiency, it is the reduction of environmentally harmful subsidies as proposed in the annual economic report.
if you want to achieve stability, growth and jobs - especially for young people - if that is the focus of your work this semester, then you must also actively promote an industrial policy based on competitiveness and sustainability.
in addition to the general gsp system, special arrangements for sustainable development and good governance known as gsp+ provide for additional trade preferences for countries which ratify and effectively implement 27 specific international conventions, including those on core international human rights and labour rights.
we are committed to improving environmental and social standards globally.
for the time being, the main mechanisms for pursuing these political objectives are bilateral, given the limited prospects for the establishment of multilateral rules and relations between trade, labour and the environment within the wto framework.
that has led to our insistence on the inclusion in bilateral trade agreements of provisions on sustainable development.
i know that parliament is also concerned about the increasing risks of environmental and social dumping and the consequent distortions of competition on the eu market.
we share these concerns and will continue to make full use of all the options available in our own legislation and through the sustainable development clauses in bilateral free trade agreements in order to counter these risks.
in the aftermath of the fire a project co-funded by the eu and germany for the improvement of social and environmental standards in industries helped to provide medical assistance to victims, and food and other items to the affected families.
in europe too, there is a need to educate people about many production conditions which are pathetic, including the value of environmental standards, the value of social standards.
we need consumer pressure as an effective weapon to bring about sustainable change.
the agreement also contains provisions for an improved trade and investment climate, improved rules of origin and protection measures for young industries.
i personally would have preferred that we had already agreed on the direction of a sustainability chapter in this interim epa, where the issues of human rights and environmental standards are indicated.
this is not the case, but it is not so bad either, because the cotonou agreement is still in force and the eu can also restrict aid in cases of gross violations of human rights and environmental standards.
and then it must also be clear that an epa covers the areas of value orientation, that is to say human rights standards, workers' rights, environmental standards.
in actual fact, new economic benefits create new interests in sustainability based on a stable economic environment.
additionally, the government has appointed constitutional commissions on human rights and the media, which are expected to contribute to the improvement of the overall environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
as to the business environment, the commission is currently looking at how to strengthen the enforcement of the unfair commercial practices directive.
they want a certificate that the products are not harmful to health and that they were produced in a climate-friendly way.
social and environmental dumping must be condemned worldwide if our planet and our societies are not to be endangered by a negative trend in the globalisation of production chains.
the global economic situation in the second decade of the 21st century, with the common global challenges to be met, requires a new type of trade cooperation: good jobs for all, training opportunities, participation in social development processes, education and research, overcoming poverty and hunger, climate change.
the key is to have clear democratic principles and environmental and social standards to be respected.
another key requirement is compliance with international environmental and labour standards.
i have spoken because the aid law is of great importance for the low-carbon economy, that is to say for the promotion of renewable energies and also of efficiency measures.
we call on all parties to use the current momentum by generally preparing the ground for sustainable reforms.
we must be clear that we cannot simply dismiss this country as a failing state, but that we must of course stabilise, for example, cameroon - it is important that the refugees are received there - that we take care of the vast area of the sahel zone from mali to chad, that we take care of congo, that we stabilise the environment.
let me briefly introduce our solutions to the most important issues: we have a ban on discards that puts an end to the scandalous waste of resources, a ban on discards that is accompanied by workable rules on quota management, a ban on discards that admittedly requires a lot from fishermen, but also means a chance to have a better image with our consumers, a chance to add value through sustainability certificates, etc.
building and maintaining fish stocks at msy levels - that is, maximising sustainable yields by 2020 - is a lofty goal, and we want to follow the scientific guidelines rigorously.
the practice of throwing things back is really no longer sustainable.
the trilogue will also run until 2013. i think it's too early to introduce a complete ban on waste disposal on 1 january 2014. we must think about how this is to work, about a pragmatic solution, and that includes the long-term solutions.
i thank the fisheries associations from the north and the south, large and small, the environmental associations, the animal welfare groups, the human rights organizations and all the ngos who have worked with us.
i'm afraid not the debt crisis can only be overcome if the underlying global crises, including the crisis of capital accumulation, are overcome, if we are to combat the global financial crisis and also climate change and, above all, the social crisis.
is it again about funding for education, health, social spending, the environment and public services?
i would like to refer to a call from the falea community in mali: no mining against human rights, democracy and the environment!
support take the opportunity, especially in the light of the military intervention in mali support the protest of these communities and make sure that the eu-africa strategy is actually brought to life, that it is about justice, that it is about environmental protection, that it is about living conditions for people and nature.
i see that the easy way is to cut where the future is at stake, in research, in connectivity, in infrastructure, in energy.
no, there are two very different conceptions of growth here: growth based on competitiveness, sustainability, success in the markets, or growth as a bonfire, growth produced by new public debt, growth that is artificially generated and will collapse like a bonfire, and then we have again high public debt and high unemployment.
we cannot allow ourselves to waste a generation, and the commission has been leading the campaign against this in the last three years.
the ags also means staying the course in fiscal consolidation, because there can be no sustainable growth without sustainable public finances.
it should be understood that there is a need for more efforts; we need to do more for a sustainable recovery.
that is the message and the lesson that we have learned in europe in the last few years: that we cannot spend beyond our means, that we must get public spending under control, reduce deficits, and try to tackle the enormous debt overhang, and that we have to take this approach in order to achieve growth and to lay the foundations for sustainable growth.
i sometimes feel that this topic is sometimes lost in the whole debate about economically important and big challenges, because we're seeing a massive loss of biodiversity around the world.
we have dealt with this issue in the environment committee of parliament and have tabled a resolution there.
we, as a parliament, would like the 27 member states of the european union to speak with one voice here at cop16 and to make a strong statement there, to put an end to this trend towards the loss of biodiversity and the trade in a wide range of endangered plant and animal species - there are 33 000 of them covered by this agreement.
but we have the request from the environment committee that, in this particular case, the public interest and biodiversity take precedence over economic interests.
firstly, i have to say that they are currently included in appendix 2 to the cites convention, which clearly says that international trade can take place only if it is deemed sustainable.
finally, as many of you mentioned, a major threat to the polar bear is the redirection of sea ice as a consequence of climate change.
international trade is absolutely not the main threat to the polar bear, so in a way, dealing with that and not climate change as the primary cause is not the answer.
firstly, on the question of polar bears: i think the point was made very well by ms gutiérrez-cortines about the need to have support and buy-in from indigenous communities to support plans for sustainability, and the commissioner has also alluded to that.
the battle against climate change is obviously one of the key priorities for the european union and for member states, so the council is aware of the links between climate change and the loss of habitat, and that is something that the council will of course be examining when considering the position to be adopted in respect of the proposal, and the most effective way to ensure the preservation and survival of polar bears in the arctic while respecting the cites requirements.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
if a company does not comply with environmental standards, does not comply with working conditions, then this is not acceptable and not tolerable.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr ouzký, the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on the environment for the work they have done.
the real challenge of this proposal is to find the right balance between three axes: environmental performance, cost and time for industry and international competitiveness.
secondly, it provides for a high level of environmental protection for the benefit of our fellow citizens.
one reason was the testing method which, in an urban environment, is poorly representative of the real level of vehicle emissions.
the regulation on the noise level of motor vehicles is an important dossier for health and consumer protection in order to reduce noise pollution.
the commission is not the world health organization of the united nations has studied the effects of noise emissions on human health.
the result is that noise is the second worst for the health and well-being of those affected, after air pollution.
the exhausting power of noise emissions cannot be underestimated.
we should maintain the result in the environment committee with the improved limit values.
not the commissioner for health, not the commissioner for the environment, but the commissioner for industry.
i think we made a good choice in the environment committee and we are at the beginning of the negotiations.
we have now achieved 60 or 70% in the first reading on the environment.
if i look back over the last few months, the last summits in which i have been a spectator for the european parliament, for my group, i can recall a series of declarations of intent by heads of state and government who have repeatedly stated the importance of meeting together the challenges of the future, not only because of the euro crisis but also because of the climate crisis and the growing global economic crisis.
all the cuts will hit those who want innovation, who want sustainable development, who want more research, more education, more inclusion for unemployed youth.
is it really right to fund such prestigious projects as the multi-billion dollar iter fusion reactor in the south of france in an earthquake zone, instead of finally saying what energy research and development we need to make our energy sector sustainable in the future?
global scientists are organized for the un and observe the negative developments of climate change from different perspectives.
i would recommend to those in britain who are keen to save, to take up the matter with sir nicholas stern, who years ago, as an economist, calculated very well what not acting on climate change will cost us all.
we all know that in order to ensure its ability to act, particularly with regard to enlargement, cohesion policy, the fight against poverty and social exclusion, but also the question of international cooperation and also with regard to the fight against climate change, and i would like to say this explicitly again, and the sustainability strategy, the eu needs a larger budget on the one hand, but also a reform within the budget structure, both in terms of revenue and expenditure.
secondly, the commission's budget proposal is in fact a proposal for savings, and has thus shown itself to be extremely responsible in difficult times, but at the same time it has made it clear that we have a common european interest in investing sustainably, in doing more for education, social inclusion and research, because these are the areas of growth which are truly sustainable for the european union.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the creation of a european network of experts in the field of environmental protection.
however, madam president, what i am missing is that when you look at all the trade agreements that are mentioned, especially with emerging countries, that there is no mention that we also need to have sustainable chapters, that we need to be clear about what social and environmental standards we require for fair trade to happen.
deep down inside, when all seems lost, they finally find the energy to bounce back.
the longer the ordeal, the deeper the fall, the stronger the energy that will propel them out of the hole they fell into.
the whole process of democratizing the state and society and establishing sustainable development is therefore proving to be more difficult, more complex and above all longer than expected, but it is progressing.
i would like to remind you that human exchanges are only enriching for both parties, especially if they are to be sustainable, if they are based on equality.
− the current common fisheries policy does not follow a sustainable approach.
because we want to protect our environment and at the same time we want good, healthy food, we really need to change things and stop throwing fish back.
i support the committee's proposal for sustainable fishing quotas, a ban on discards and maximum sustainable yield (msy) plans because that is the best way forward for fishermen, coastal areas, fish stocks and our citizens.
only with a clear legal commitment and a clear timetable can we achieve sustainability in the fisheries sector.
it's a huge waste of our ocean resources.
the rule of law also brings the stable environment so critical to the confidence of partners and investors.
but on the subject of climate, what is the future of our climate and international agreements?
it is not so richly sown, and i think we need to emphasize once again the importance of this issue and that we as europeans should not wait for others, but should go further - towards a low-carbon society, towards a sustainable society - and bring the 194 countries on board.
i think it is a good thing when member states commit themselves to making money available for the fight against climate change, as has already been agreed at a cop.
but if it is not done in public, but on the margins, then there is also a need for more coordination, for europeans to say: we are putting money on the table, we are in favour of the climate fund really getting under way and that the tasks we have to do are also solidly financed.
the various actors, the eu institutions, member states, but also the private sector and the public at large, are already starting to think about what kind of global climate regime we want to agree by 2015 in order for it to be in place and taking effect in a post-2020 world.
the eu will then need to devise how best to achieve the desired outcome by the end of 2015. it is worth noting that two eu member states will be playing a leading role in the unfccc process leading up to this new post-2020 climate regime since, as you know, poland and france will be the conference hosts in 2013 and 2015 respectively.
it took a lot of time and energy in durban but was still not solved.
it cannot be done in the last months of 2015. so we will raise all these difficult issues in the green paper – the ambition level from 2020 onwards, the ambition gap before 2020, the finance issue as was mentioned, the legal form and, maybe even more controversially, how to account for all the many different initiatives outside the unfccc: access to sustainable energy for all, getting rid of fossil fuel subsidies, all these other kinds of initiatives, the icis too.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i am glad to hear several times today that we have a new timetable for the climate debate.
the doha climate conference has not produced much of substance on climate change.
there was no agreement within the eu on key negotiating issues in doha, and the self-proclaimed main climate protection instrument, emissions trading, is on the verge of collapse.
the only way the eu can advance the global climate negotiations is to show its own climate ambition.
how does the commission intend to build up pressure for negotiations at cop 19 in warsaw if the eu's contribution to climate protection is not credible?
if you look at the international climate negotiations, you can be sober.
if we have a serious problem with climate change -- and i'm convinced of that, even as someone who has had a scientific education, and i know in medicine we often have far fewer scientists coming to a consensus, and we have to keep in mind that there is virtually no area of science where the consensus is as big as on climate change -- then we can't just sit back and wait.
he was the big climate guy, he brought legislation to the senate, and now he has to take responsibility as secretary of state and he has to take risks and he has to take the brakes off inside the administration or he loses credibility.
we need to be prepared now in climate policy for there to be a 2021. that is why i am personally in favour of backloading, and i am personally in favour of setting three clear targets for 2030 as soon as possible, realistic but ambitious.
however, we still need to do more to combat tax fraud in europe in a sustainable way.
finally, we will be watching closely in future because laos has to understand that we will make the rule of law and respect for human rights, as well as environmental and labour standards, a precondition for further relations between us and them.
it is a tragedy for the individual and a loss for society at large when we waste wisdom, and when we refuse to break with inequality, be it in africa or in europe.
with the roadmap 2050, we wanted to start a debate that will take us into the next decades and show the ways in which the europeanisation of energy policy and the europeanisation of climate policy can have a continuation, a lasting future.
there is probably no sector in which the need for long-term planning is greater than in the energy sector.
energy, that is to say, the provision of raw materials oil sources, gas sources, coal, biomass.
energy, that is to say production capacity wind farms, solar farms, coal-fired power plants, gas-fired power plants, geothermal energy, nuclear power plants.
energy, that is to say, storage facilities and storage technologies.
energy is research.
energy, that is to say transport infrastructure networks and pipelines.
energy, which means investing in greater energy efficiency.
and that's why -- we have a huge investment deficit in energy -- we need common roadmaps for where the energy world is going to be in 2030, 2040, 2050. in each case, we have identified three "no regrets options" for different scenarios, three objectives.
investing in an intelligent energy infrastructure is a must, not a disadvantage.
a higher share of renewable energy brings far more advantages than disadvantages.
and investing in energy efficiency improvements is also an unquestionable right of way.
because one thing is clear: if 20-20-20 is not followed, we will be back to a purely national, fragmented energy and climate future.
it is a question of whether we need to go further, or whether reducing co2 emissions is enough.
i think that reducing co2 emissions is important.
but i still advocate that a pragmatic additional target for mandatory shares of renewable energy in the european energy mix be formulated and adopted alongside it.
as long as article 194 applies, which gives the member states exclusive competence for technology - that is, member states and their governments and parliaments are solely responsible for nuclear power, yes or no, coal, how long, how much, and the promotion of renewable energies - as long as 20 or 22 member states cannot impose a common higher target on renewable energies on other member states.
because i predict that the climate has changed significantly in 2013. a number of member states no longer want european standards.
i want to hear your feedback on where you want to go with renewable energy.
in concrete terms, i am thinking of considering and adopting a next target for the european electricity market, after we reach around 32% renewable energy for electricity in 2020, but one which must include all of us if it is to be effective.
you have made very good remarks on the subject of foreign energy policy and relations with our supplier countries.
i think the shale gas revolution is going to go far beyond the energy sector.
the questions of how we can supply industry in the future, whether we have enough energy, whether we have energy at affordable prices, what impact this has on the environment cannot be confined to one great, big project, but must be seen in a cross-sectional way.
written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on risk and safety assessments of nuclear power plants in the european union (stress tests) by amalia sartori, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000183/2012 - b7-0108/2013) (2012/2830(rsp)).
in health and environmental matters, we believe that the precautionary principle is the measure of all things.
but what about our principles when it comes to cheap energy?
we do not want a european supervision body a european nuclear energy supervision is not necessary but we want common european rules on how national supervision in each member state must be further developed in terms of quality, competence and independence.
the decision on nuclear power, and how long it should be part of the energy mix of a member state, was and is taken by national governments and national parliaments.
the debate was closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution by the committee on industry, research and energy, pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure.
(the vote was then postponed to thursday, 14 march 2013) written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mr kriton arsenis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on accounting rules and action plans for greenhouse gas emissions and removals from land use activities (com2012) 0093 - c7-0074/2012 - 2012/0042 ((cod)) (a7-0317/2012) and by mr bas eickhout, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the system for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions and other climate-related information (com2011) 0789 - c7-0433/2011 - 2011/0372 (cod)) (a7-019/2012).
there is a real heartfelt debate about the right way to go about the climate debate, and we are doing that.
emissions from agricultural land, arable land and grassland are not included in the calculation of lulucf factors.
a new global climate agreement will be negotiated by 2017 at the latest.
the complex models available to calculate the exchange of carbon between soil and atmosphere do not take into account the real impact on agriculture.
first of all the sanctions: i agree that even though the legislation we have is based on directives – and we do not have a regulation as we have in environmental criminal law where specific sanctions are specified in the regulation – we should be more specific in the directives when we are drafting them.
the key is to make the best use of the european union's financial resources for sustainable rural development, thereby increasing the prosperity of rural people.
and this is the great opportunity to really make sustainable and climate-friendly rural development possible!
we want to set the ecological priority areas at 7%, and to make it clear, these are areas where no chemicals are used, but where production can still be carried out.
this is not sustainable!
i have not understood why the commission has proposed the same three environmental requirements in the first pillar for farmers from portugal to bulgaria, from malta to finland.
and i am also convinced that the result would have been even more ecological than the proposal we have discussed.
and in this sum, greening in the first pillar, agar environmental measures in the second pillar, we will achieve sustainability.
the german social democrats want a european common agricultural policy that is strong, sustainable and capable of making headway.
we want 7% ecological priority area.
and if we are putting 40% of taxpayers' money into a sector, then there should be conditions attached to that, and those are sustainability criteria.
the environment committee, the largest committee in this house, has written an opinion on this.
and that is why i can only recommend that more sustainability - and that is mandatory sustainability - be voted on here tomorrow, otherwise i will really have difficulty in publicly justifying my decision, and i think that would be a fatal signal.
the european union is facing a major challenge in terms of new, sustainable competitiveness.
this is particularly true in the areas of investment in the future: broadband, research, education, particularly the fight against youth unemployment, but also - with reference to the debate this afternoon - organic farming, and of course the fight against climate change and the substantial increase in renewable energy.
we need a clear, precise, sustainable and democratically unambiguous formula which will make it possible to calculate this distribution of seats according to the size of the member states, the number of inhabitants, without any doubt.
this includes the question of whether the role of the committee of the regions should not be significantly strengthened in the future, since it is the representatives of the area where citizens experience european policy decisions that should have a concrete and direct impact on the design of the environment.
first of all, it is good to see that the rules for national accounts - the statistical rules - are improving, that social and environmental indicators are also better reflected, and that the data will be of a better quality.
it also concerns the health and the resilience of our environment.
when presenting the who-unep report, unep executive director achim steiner said ‘chemical products are increasingly part of modern life and support many national economies, but the unsound management of chemicals challenges the achievement of key development goals, and sustainable development for all’.
this is thus an opportunity for industry to contribute to more sustainable production as well as to restoring and increasing public confidence.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
what we really need to create new competitiveness is something like a green industrial revolution, a major ecological transformation.
it is the only way to create new jobs and responsible, sustainable products.
shouldn't we be spending as much energy on raising incomes as we are spending on saving?
in a state governed by the rule of law, the voters will of course also decide whether or not mrs tymoshenko has pursued a good energy policy.
we should develop a strategic partnership, if only because we have common challenges, for example from climate and ecological transformation to a sustainable economy.
but there are also hopes, for example, that the national people's congress might change environmental policy, or that the system of forced labor without a court order, the laojiao system, might actually be abolished.
the keynote of a new development philosophy is to address the social problems, the environmental burdens and the regional imbalances which are also seen as the result of the most unbridled growth to date.
in addition, environmental concerns and citizens' interests are being made the imperative for a critical rethinking of the current logic of economic growth, as well as the future way of expanding the social security systems still under construction.
unfortunately, china is largely ignoring people, the environment and other important issues.
− mr president, on behalf of the commission i would like to thank mr moreira, mrs muscardini and mr cutas and the committee on international trade (inta) for their resolution on sustainability in the global cotton value chain.
membership of icac will allow the eu to put forward its concerns on a number of issues, such as labour conditions, the degree to which plant protection products such as pesticides are used, the management of the related risks and how to address the potential environmental effects of such products.
we need this because we still have a number of problems in the cotton sector, ranging from environmental pollution which should not be, to an issue which is a constant concern for us across the political groups and which also affects us personally when we see the incredible suffering and misery of the many children who are still working in cotton production in many countries today.
we all buy products that have been produced under inhuman conditions in countries where cotton production is based on child labour and environmental damage.
we need binding guidelines, perhaps from the oecd, to ensure that there is no child labour, no environmental damage and no degrading working conditions throughout the value chain.
− today's vote represents a missed opportunity to make eu agricultural policy sustainable and competitive in the long term.
the commission has not yet adopted any concrete and binding sustainability criteria, as the environment committee has repeatedly called for.
at the same time, it is unacceptable that small farms which regularly receive public funds should be exempted from their obligation to comply with minimum environmental requirements.
compliance with environmental standards must be a condition for receiving premium payments.
the urgent need for an ecological agricultural reform cannot and will not be met by today's vote.
- a key issue is the 'ecological priority areas'.
this situation may be aggravated in the near future by the effects of climate change.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr matthias groote, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec to clarify the provisions on the time-limit for auctioning greenhouse gas emission allowances (com (((2012) 0416 c7-0203/2012 2012/0202 (((cod)) (a7-0046/2013)).
it was not a surprise that it was launched, but we as the european parliament called on the commission to do so during the negotiations on the energy efficiency directive, where the committee on industry was in the lead; we have also linked the approval of the first reading agreement to this.
and with the low carbon economy initiative report we have again stepped in and said that we need a short-term measure to intervene so that we have a reasonably reasonable price for carbon credits.
we have now worked on this in parliament: the committee on industry has voted against it, and we had a large majority in favour in the committee on the environment.
we need backloading because we have to record that at a price of 2.80 euros - that was the absolute lowest we have now had in the past weeks and months - there is no incentive to intervene in climate-friendly production processes, energy production processes.
and we also added a recital that you look again at the energy-intensive companies, the carbon leakage companies, whether there are disruptions and pressure to act.
we made a mistake in 2008 during the climate and energy package debate.
the alternative to backloading, but also to the emissions trading system - because i know some colleagues are linking this together, we are not voting tomorrow on the emissions trading system - is 27 different tax systems.
china is going to launch an emissions trading system in 2015 that is bigger than the european one, and other regions of the world have followed us here.
even if there is a change of government in australia, the opposition will stick to the emissions trading system.
because we're betting on those actors who want to reduce emissions and use the emissions trading system, the signal that the system is not reliable, we intervene when the price is not right for us.
i am very much in favour of mr seeber's view that we should be thinking fundamentally about the question of what kind of climate policy we are pursuing in the eu.
and it's also probably the completely wrong signal to say now that we have to raise the prices of the system when the rest of the world is not at all ready to accept an international climate agreement.
does this mean that we are entering a spiral of intervention in emissions trading?
of course, the emissions trading system is a politically created market.
but many of my epp colleagues, many christian democrats in the member states, are in favour of the commission's proposal and of the report by the committee on the environment.
i was rapporteur for the environment committee for the energy efficiency directive.
the european parliament has twice called on the commission to intervene in and strengthen emissions trading.
and now, for once, emissions trading has to be done.
we, as the epp, have insisted in the environment committee that this debate should take place in plenary, that we should not negotiate on the basis of the vote in the environment committee.
we should make the decision on principle for an eu climate policy.
we introduced emissions trading at that time, we had a very heated debate, and that was when the decision was made to adopt a market economy system.
it is not surprising that the question of the carbon balance is affected by the very strong and intensive promotion of renewable energy.
it's total nonsense that tomorrow's emissions trading is in jeopardy.
the european parliament has often been puzzled by the emissions trading system.
back in 2003, we created a new, artificial market for emissions.
but the objective was clear: the only stated objective was to contain and reduce emissions, and to do so on terms acceptable to the economy.
this is certainly a reason not to increase the price of energy!
if we put a higher price on our products than we put on our energy, we'll be out of business.
i've listened to all the arguments, and i have to say that i've received a lot of letters in the last few days -- from people i've never received a letter from, and they're the catholic bishops -- from the evangelical church, from environmental groups, from industry, from others who have asked us to look at the bigger picture, that what we're doing here is not just a market cleansing or a price hike of a few cents or euros, but we have a social task to tackle, which is climate change.
investments in climate-friendly gas-fired power plants and renewable energy are no longer profitable.
the commission's proposal is to be incorporated into the policy framework to create the conditions for an energy transition and an efficient europe.
the energy costs have been mentioned.
i would like to emphasize once again that we are not making a public show here, but it is a very serious matter to save the emissions trading system, and we should not bring our own publicity to the fore.
we had large majorities in the environment committee and also in the transport committee.
in 2008, we decided here in the plenary by a majority of over 90% to include aviation in the emissions trading scheme.
the reason was that emissions from air transport have been steadily increasing they have roughly doubled since 1990 and of course it would be unfair to involve other modes of transport such as car, bus and rail in different ways in climate change and not involve air transport.
john kerry has introduced the kerry-lieberman bill in the us senate: emissions trading for everyone in the us, including airlines, including european airlines.
the door is open to an international agreement in the air transport sector, so that we can reduce co2 emissions there, but also to get a tool in the hands of an international business.
we'll be in the states with the environmental committee before the summer break.
this is an important step towards an international agreement, for all legislation at the un level to combat climate change.
even if something comes out of it - whatever the instrument - it will certainly not match the european union's current level of ambition for climate action.
for over 100 years, greenhouse gases have been known to cause global warming.
and the inclusion of aviation in emissions trading is such an effective measure because it contributes to the fight against climate change and is a bold move by the european union, which unfortunately still lacks the support of international partners.
the two percent of global co2 emissions from aviation may not seem particularly threatening, but it is important to remember that this is the area that is growing fastest.
and, commissioner, if there is nothing substantial, we would urge you to continue on the european union's path as soon as possible and to put emissions trading back into the system immediately.
furthermore, switzerland and the eu share a strong commitment to addressing climate change and to making progress in the icao, and we are even engaged in detailed negotiations on linking our respective emissions trading systems.
the serious environmental organizations that are really working on this issue - including in montreal at icao - are asking us to agree.
we are aiming to reach a global agreement on the reduction of greenhouse gases in aviation.
parliament has today taken the wise decision to reject backloading in emissions trading.
emissions trading was introduced in the european union for two reasons: we wanted to reduce co2 emissions, and we wanted to establish a market economy instrument to do this.
- i voted against the european commission's proposal to reduce the number of allowances in the emissions trading system (ets) because it sends the wrong signal to intervene in a market once we no longer like the prices there.
climate protection is a very important issue.
if a climate protection system has not proved its worth, i think it is pointless to stick to it under all circumstances.
this is of course also true of air transport in particular, and it is therefore right that parliament has decided to suspend emissions trading in air transport for the time being and to supplement it with an international agreement.
we very much welcome the very constructive role that switzerland has played in the international negotiations on climate change in general, and in aviation in particular.
we would also encourage both sides to discuss common approaches on the question of how to spend the revenues, for example for common research projects and international climate policy.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
we in the environment committee are responsible for only 0.79% of the eu budget.
but environment, climate, health, food safety and feed safety are very much present in the minds of citizens throughout the union, at least through the life programme, the health action programme and the disaster prevention programme.
the environment is put in the same pot with fisheries and rural development and labelled with a 7,7% error rate.
none of this is the environmental department's fault.
there, it is even expected to have additional responsibilities, because it is also expected to be responsible for pollution from oil platforms.
i was unable to agree with the discharge for the european environment agency and therefore expressly regret the final result of the vote on discharge for the agency.
i would like to see greater care taken in the future in the budgetary management of the european environment agency and greater transparency in the procurement procedures, so that investigations by olaf will no longer be necessary.
we must also say that there are a number of areas where there is a great deal of common interest - for example in the case of energy and energy transport for both turkey and the european union - and that perhaps we should also concentrate on negotiations in those areas which have to do with the relevant packages.
i would like to mention the negotiations on the energy capital as an example.
i think that many people are not yet aware of the importance of cooperation between the european union and turkey in the energy sector in the future.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the third is anti-discrimination and inclusion of vulnerable groups, protection of minorities – where a number of your points, including ms cornelissen’s question, will be addressed – and the business environment.
we will continue to ensure that there is continuous and sustainable progress on all of these issues throughout the process.
a visible and sustainable improvement in relations between them would avoid that possible road-block, which we do not wish to see frustrating our efforts.
it is a very important matter for the fishermen and for the marine environment.
let me conclude by saying that whatever we do, there is one thing we must do for the arctic, and that is work with our international partners to address climate change and to limit global temperature increases to less than 2°c.
we must also take concrete steps, particularly in areas of european importance, such as safe and sustainable access to natural resources and the development of shipping routes.
i expect the commission to proactively develop and coordinate an arctic policy, particularly in those areas where europe can make a positive contribution to the sustainable development of the arctic through its programmes, research, investment and market partnership.
examples such as norway show that a balance between different interests, between sustainable development and nature protection, is possible.
it is a good thing, and i congratulate you, commissioner, that we have recently opened an arctic dialogue on energy issues with iceland.
the report also calls for the opening of further negotiating chapters on energy, social policy, regional policy, justice and home affairs, which i consider premature and not appropriate in the present situation.
that is why we need a robust sustainability chapter in the new partnership agreement with kazakhstan, with a functioning monitoring mechanism, so that we can check whether our demands are being met.
we also need a new approach to resource extraction that puts human rights and social and environmental standards at the centre, that also promotes technology transfer, that takes into account local value creation and economic diversification, and that also promotes regional integration.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr herbert reul, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the current challenges and opportunities for renewable energy in the european internal energy market 2012/2259 (ini) (a7-0135/2013).
this report is produced and discussed in the context of the necessary course we need to take in european policy on climate and energy policy beyond 2020, when the current framework of 2020 targets expires.
we have tried to discuss in the committee on industry, research and energy the opportunities and challenges of renewable energy in the european internal market.
for example, we have stated or recognised that there must continue to be european targets and intermediate targets for the period beyond 2020 to 2050. but we have, for example, been clear with a majority - and that was a relatively clear majority - against setting a single binding target for 2030 of 40 to 45% for renewable energy.
in this report we have also tried to ask questions about the infrastructure challenges, not just about the question of renewable energy being important for the future - we have already decided this 100 000 times, it is not new - but rather to try to look at the new problems that have arisen as a result of this, such as the infrastructure challenges that are emerging.
the present energy infrastructure is, of course, built under different conditions and the massive expansion of renewable energies is now creating entirely new difficulties for the security of energy supply, namely, where infrastructure has not been modernised, for example, traditional energy supply rather centralised near urban areas or large industrial plants and now very decentralised wind turbines, solar plants.
the energy system is rarely prepared for this, and then problems arise, problems that are named, problems such as unplanned, sometimes cross-border energy flows, which in turn create additional costs that must also be taken into account when further developing renewable energies.
of course, a very important point in this report is the question of costs, which is repeatedly raised in various places, partly because of the higher subsidies and partly because of the cost-effective energy produced, especially because volatile, weather-dependent forms of production are not yet competitive in these renewable energy sources and because they also need flexible conventional reserves, for example, to maintain the supply at night or in the absence of wind.
we have comments in this report - and i think this is important - on the great variety of very different renewable energy support schemes, which burden both consumers and industry, and which cannot be ignored in the enthusiasm that renewable energy is important.
we need to use these funds in a targeted way and therefore more european support schemes, to use all the available financially sustainable means to reduce costs and increase competitiveness.
when we tackle the promotion of renewable energy, we are of course tackling three key challenges: we are reducing our dependence on fossil fuels - which are becoming more expensive in the face of global change - we are contributing to climate policy, and we have also set clear industrial policy priorities.
the promotion of renewable energy has created many new jobs in new industries, but also in old industries - steel, chemicals - many jobs have been preserved.
in this sense, the promotion of renewable energy is a social and industrial policy project that empowers citizens in europe.
we must not only encourage investment in renewable energy but also ensure that it is integrated into the european union's energy networks and system.
of course, the development of renewable energy has given a major boost: the setting of the 2020 target of 20% of final energy use in 2008. this has led to investment, and has provided a corridor for energy security and a clear option for the renewable energy industry.
i hope you also realize that sometimes there is more wind in the south than in the north, and sometimes there is more sun in the north than in the south, and that the charm of renewable energy is precisely in harnessing the potential where it occurs, i.e.
even though half of europe is celebrating pentecost, we are naturally happy to discuss renewable energies in the european parliament.
the road to the renewable energy age is a european road.
a truly european single market for photovoltaics, wind, hydro and biomass energy will mean a cost-effective and environmentally friendly energy supply.
but an isolated quota for the development of renewable energies leads to a dead end.
we cannot rely on a market economy system for emissions trading if we force the expansion of renewable energy by quota in a planned economy.
we cannot rely on free emissions trading if we also force energy savings through an annual savings obligation in a planned economy.
the savings rate, the expansion rate, the co2 reduction rate - if we regulate each one separately without recognising the interrelationships, this is regulated twice and threefold and is paid twice and threefold by the economy and the electricity customers without any added value for the environment.
what we need is integrated energy legislation that takes account of all the interactions.
we need energy legislation in line with the plans of the national states to expand renewable energy.
on the other hand, a rush to renewable energy quotas would not only repeat the mistakes of the past, it would be the final death knell for emissions trading.
for example, we could imagine that we would give a large amount of freedom to industrial enterprises that produce and use a large proportion of renewable energy in their production process, to buy emission allowances, to buy emission allowances, and thus to link one legislation with another.
europe has opted for a sustainable energy transition.
we have two advantages: we are creating a pillar of our own energy, because europe is poor in its own energy sources, and we are reducing emissions.
we all agree that a good energy mix, a sustainable grid in all member states, must be built.
the need to renew the networks makes even more sense if renewable, decentralized sources of energy are also included.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the world economy.
for example: renewable energies temporary, degressive need support if they want to become competitive in the market, if the costs are to be degressive, but not at the beginning, but at the end in competition.
i do not think that we can even survive without dumping in europe with our environmental standards, which i support, and our labour costs, which we need.
our energy needs, our electricity needs are so great, we need more decentralized and local production, but we still need centralized and large-scale solutions.
i am in favour of a single european energy market.
tomorrow morning i will be joined by the two secretaries of state from madrid, the secretary of state for the environment and the secretary of state for energy.
and spanish energy companies have accumulated 30 billion euros of debt.
what are we doing for renewable energy?
we will do the grid expansion in the interest of renewable energy.
this means that a considerable proportion of the new networks will be connected with the development of renewable energy sources that we want to see, because renewable energy sources are often not located where consumption is: offshore wind, hydropower in the central alps, pumped storage in the western balkans, but consumption in the metropolises of vienna, linz, munich, hamburg, dortmund, paris.
because gas is the most flexible and sustainable fossil fuel, and it can quickly guarantee the security of supply when the sun is not shining and the wind is not blowing.
modern gas power stations decentralised, including smaller, highly energy efficient are imperative, as the possibility of storing electricity will be very limited in europe in the next ten to fifteen years.
but i am very interested in your vote also in strasbourg these days on a vote on renewable energies, targets, binding yes or no, amount, how high, how much.
if we want to promote more renewable energy in europe, we will only be able to do so if we involve people, if we achieve acceptance.
the expansion, the increase in renewable energy will only work if you also take into account the impact, the cost, the price.
it is interesting that colleagues from several countries have pointed out the energy prices here.
if we take into account neighbours affected by the expansion and find solutions for them, and if we also take into account interdependencies, colleagues have also pointed out that the expansion of renewable energies, if we push it very hard, also has repercussions, for example, on the emissions trading system.
i would like to say that we would do well to try to approach this common objective of more renewable energy in a more realistic, pragmatic way and to take it forward.
one of the answers will certainly be that we must also think more european about this promotion of renewable energy.
there is not the political climate today to make it possible to propose such a scheme.
it is definitely, in the current political climate, the only way forward.
the commission has also taken the view that the european parliament should be given the opportunity to express its views on the draft directive on the protection of the environment by the use of radioactive substances.
it needs manpower, raw materials, energy, infrastructure, research and training facilities and finance.
let's just take the environmental pollution in the soil as an example.
many well-developed industrial waste sites cannot be re-cultivated because the soil is too heavily stressed.
i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, the environment committee and the commission services who have given me excellent support in the preparation of my report.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
if it becomes concrete and if the commission ensures that at the next energy summit this week, in this council, there is an urgent debate on the issue of where jobs can be created, on the question of whether we are continuing to drive up energy prices and thus driving people into poverty, then we will all be in a pinch here.
we are not prepared to say: yes, it is high time for a change of direction, for a tangible change in energy policy.
we need to change the direction of energy policy if we want growth, if we want industry, if we want to stop people being treated badly with prices.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its energy needs.
it is not possible to ignore the fact that the internal market in energy is not working at all.
it is impossible to ignore the fact that the cost of energy in america is only half of what it is in germany.
and if we do not succeed in turning energy policy back at european level from its one-sided focus on climate policy to competition policy and affordability, if we do not succeed in having a more realistic debate, then all this will remain fake!
− in the age of the energy transition, we know how important it is to develop renewable energies efficiently and at european level.
the eu's current target of 20% renewable energy by 2020 is achievable, but we cannot rest on our laurels.
secondly, as regards the statements of ms goulard and mr brok concerning the community method, the commission’s view is firmly based on the community method because we believe, from experience, that it is the only way to ensure truly sustainable policies and progress, as well as democratic legitimacy and political accountability.
that is why we want to provide policy advice to the euro area too, so that the eurogroup can discuss what the optimal and proactive policy mix is in order to promote recovery and create a foundation for sustainable growth and improving employment.
the eu’s proactive policy mix is focused on returning to economic recovery in order to create the foundations for sustainable growth and job creation.
the emu ensures the availability of investment funds, including the sustainability of public finances and the financing of welfare and social protection systems.
so emu is not just about competition between good companies that are successful on a global scale, and it includes sustainable finance.
the council has also underlined the importance of establishing an effective coordination mechanism for engagement with the eu, including for the effective use of the eu’s pre-accession assistance, as well as ensuring fiscal sustainability.
if we add to this the fact that safety, health and environmental standards will under no circumstances be lowered, we should have what it takes to convince those who may still have doubts.
the concerns of the population are well known: genetic manipulation in agriculture, threats to cultural diversity, the selling out of data protection, the reduction of consumer and worker protection, ecological production criteria and energy costs, a new acta experiment, wage policy and collective agreements and other issues.
we measure every agreement by whether it serves the interests of the people and leads to social and environmental progress and the democratic integration of the societies concerned.
europe's politicians and businessmen have a duty to make it possible to develop relations in a sustainable and social way.
commissioner, you want to ensure, in binding national agreements between the eu and third countries, the right for investors to take action against governments, leaving judgment to trade specialists to whom environmental or other social interests do not matter.
with this law you deprive the governments of the member states of the right to defend their own political majority decisions, such as the withdrawal from nuclear energy.
the possibilities of shaping legislation in the field of social standards, environmental standards and social design must be left to a third country, and this instrument must not be used in this respect.
if we want to preserve the unique landscape of the alps, we must change the political landscape, develop energy, transport and tourism in a gentle, environmentally friendly and sustainable way, and not, as so often happens, destroy them for short-term profit.
i want us to develop the alpine region together, not from above, but from below, with people, in the best sense, with responsibility for our fellow citizens, the environment and the future, building on what the people of the alpine region have developed together and not ignoring it.
the majority of this house has never wanted to accept respect for human rights and workers' rights and environmental criteria as a legally fixed precondition for the importation of goods.
if you look at it, you know that these prices can only be achieved by extreme social and environmental dumping.
the commission must finally include corporate social responsibility and human rights clauses as binding in its negotiations on trade agreements, and not relegate them to the non-binding chapters on sustainable development.
of course, higher social standards and safety standards and environmental regulations come at a price.
i would like to expressly endorse the content of the resolution which has been tabled, but i would like to take the opportunity at the end of this debate to ask commissioner günther oettinger, responsible for energy, whether there is any consideration at european commission level of using the water resources which are certainly dormant in rwanda to make a contribution to development aid policy in rwanda in accordance with the situation we have just discussed.
as a doctor and as the leader of our group in the committee on the environment and health, i have been particularly concerned with the subject of mri, medical diagnostics.
if we invest now in building homes that are not only affordable, but also energy efficient, we create a sustainable balance in the housing market.
the local economy benefits from the construction job boom and sustainable construction saves energy costs for the environment and households.
we need a uniform european framework for measures in the fields of state aid, the use of structural funds, the fight against poverty, but also energy and health policy.
our aim is to have clear, consistent and appropriate legislation which means, in short, better protection for consumers, but also a better environment for operators and better enforcement by national authorities.
the agenda focuses on food safety, health and energy supply.
the main objective is to inform consumers about their rights and about responsible and sustainable consumption.
ecological and employment criteria form part of the responsibility we have to take into account.
we have shown this, mr president, in our proposal for a text - which will be discussed and which is also very important for transparency - on non-financial reporting, since we have proposed that these environmental and social transparency requirements be applied to companies with more than 500 employees.
it is also a text on transparency, social and environmental responsibility of companies, and i am very grateful to your rapporteur, mr baldassarre, who was here earlier and spoke, for opening up this text to introduce an amendment which will take up the conclusions of the european council.
what are we doing, for example, with transnational networks in the field of the internet and energy policy?
this is a disproportionate cost, has a significant environmental impact and is rejected by a majority of citizens and meps.
parliament has taken very good decisions on sustainable fishing, including in international waters.
it would have been sensible to have started with the food fund and the question of how we deal with food waste, instead of suddenly creating a new fund where there is a lot of money involved, where dreams are involved and where we are investing in the wrong place.
the environmental concerns of the initial demonstrators have developed into the wider concerns of a significant portion of society who feel that their voice is not heard in turkish politics today.
this is a revolt of secular, non-islamic turkey, which together with the internet generation, together with environmental movements, wants to have a modern turkey, and therefore it seems to me that unilateral betting on erdogan was not the right way for our policy.
but i would also be interested if we could use these negotiations to develop a policy ambition that, for example, asks: how can we use the transatlantic negotiations to further develop our two economies towards more low-carbon production, towards a transformation of our economies towards energy efficiency and resource efficiency?
but it is unacceptable that the report falls behind parliament's common positions on issues such as the fight against poverty, energy security, the active fight against impunity for the most serious crimes under international law and the implementation of a global zero-nuclear-weapons policy.
a policy which is supposed to be humanitarian has no legitimacy when it is actually used to promote uranium mining, and in the process causes child malformations, lung cancer and deadly environmental pollution.
the eu-afghanistan cooperation agreement on partnership and development (capd) should also help to establish sustainable structures and institutions.
the agreement should reiterate the willingness of the parties to address new common concerns, such as the fight against terrorism, weapons of mass destruction, international crime, counter-narcotics and the mitigation of climate change.
i have seen this repeatedly - including in my report on energy supply - when people suddenly try to water down this very passage, arguing that it is not that important.
a second point: by working with the 78 countries, we have opportunities to influence climate targets.
i also agree with his assessment that the focus of the amendments to the agreement is on achieving the millennium development goals, combating climate change, development and poverty reduction.
we firmly believe that such projects have the potential to consolidate and strengthen the legal environment, thus improving investments and the social climate.
with more than 1 000 ports along europe's coastline, handling a large part of the eu's external trade, common criteria for ship inspections are essential today, as they enhance environmental protection and, above all, safety.
i would also like to thank the committee on environment, public health and food safety (envi) for largely backing the approach we put forward.
this update results from a review of the latest scientific evidence regarding a large range of chemicals, including those identified by parliament when the environmental quality standards directive was adopted in 2008. the new list means regular monitoring of pollutants in all member states.
some measures will have to be taken to bring concentrations down to safe levels or to phase out emissions to water of those pollutants.
this is important in view of the transboundary character of such pollution.
the european parliament’s environment committee has complemented this by introducing a welcome requirement for timely electronic provision of information.
this new watchlist mechanism will see member states monitoring additional substances to help assess the risk they pose to the environment or to human health via the environment.
the concerns in relation to other pharmaceutical substances in the environment will be followed up by developing a strategic approach to the issue.
numerous experts and researchers from the member states, the commission and the stakeholder groups as well as the scientific committee on health and environmental risks have provided input.
we know that only by taking good collective precautions can pollution be prevented, that any pollution of our waters is either not at all or is very difficult to eliminate.
there are also new concerns and new concerns arising from new or intensified changes in humans and the environment that we need to take seriously.
we must not restrict the availability of medicines by excessive regulation in environmental legislation, especially when there is no evidence of a threat to the environment.
we want to use the sea in a sustainable way and to have something from the sea for a long time.
these include marine energy, coastal tourism, blue biotechnology - only 10% of the ocean's potential has been explored - mineral resources and, of course, aquaculture, because people always like to eat fish.
member states find it difficult to frame a report on such non-financial issues as to how they ensure their spending is used to foster human rights and democracy, or on how ecas screen environmental risks into the setting of their premiums.
the compromise presented to us last week is, in my view, a bad deal, with one loser above all: those who need the strengthening of programmes and projects to improve their social and ecological living conditions.
and politics must be measured by what is necessary, and not by where, perhaps, agreement can be reached on a very specific point, because the federal elections are coming up, because the european elections are coming up, and not because urgent social and environmental problems have to be solved.
but where we really need to invest now in the crisis, what we know, in real growth drivers, in a low-carbon economy, in green jobs, in many more opportunities for our young people, we're doing too little.
it has recently been demonstrated that regular technical inspections contribute significantly to improving environmental friendliness, safety and also economic efficiency in the interests of consumers and users.
and we should also consider the environmental issue.
and of course, we have to adapt to climate change.
banks whose business models are not sustainable or are too big to fail have no reason to exist in this form.
that's why you're so good, let's try it and, jan, it's not like the whole thing's going to go to waste!
the vote will take place on wednesday, 3 july 2013, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr gilles pargneaux, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on serious cross-border threats to health (com (2011) 0866 - c7-0488/2011 - 2011/0421 (cod)) (a7-0337/2012).
finally, let me once again thank the members of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the rapporteur mr pargneaux, as well as the shadow rapporteurs, for their efforts and commitment towards reaching agreement with the council.
the press has given you the title of "iron lady" for, among other things, implementing massive budget cuts; the eu has also made progress in the area of the environment.
i am very grateful to you, madam president, for having also addressed energy policy very clearly, not in the sense of 'another goal and another goal' but in the sense of 'how are we going to achieve this with the internal market?'
with the trading of pollution rights, we have established a market economy system which is supposed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
if the commission considers that emissions trading is not working, then fundamental changes should be considered.
i would like to point out that the real objective of reducing co2 emissions will be achieved.
it was never the task of the emissions trading system to get a fixed price for the allowances.
the new entity has to be efficient and sustainable, but it also has to guarantee media pluralism.
this situation is not sustainable in the long term, even if some people are benefiting from this system today - the member states who do not have to adapt their national laws, the monopolists or the market leaders who are benefiting from it.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
and finally, economic success ensures our income, our standard of living, and also many environmental services that can and must be financed through the economy.
then, mr turmes, you will have to decide in rotterdam whether you will accept shale gas because it is cheap or whether you will then be more concerned with environmental policy in the united states.
because the commission's mailbox contains complaints from consumer centres in germany, from public utilities in germany, from network operators in germany, from german citizens and, among others, from the dutch industry, which says that the gross price of electricity in germany is higher than in the netherlands, but with reductions and exemptions from network charges and from the requirement for renewable energy.
this means that, as a rule, aid is not sustainable.
for example, there have been guidelines for environmental aid for years, for environmental subsidies.
the commission therefore needs to prepare a legal framework for environmental and energy aid, and we are working on that now.
the aim of the report is to align eu research and innovation policy with eu objectives namely climate and environmental protection .
the mobility service itself must also be made more sustainable.
firstly, the council decided to give priority to the programmes and actions designed to put european back on the track of sustainable and inclusive growth and jobs, including for specified policy objectives relating to youth employment, research, erasmus and small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), and to boost the financing of the economy.
it therefore agreed that under subheading 1b, economic, social and territorial cohesion, payment appropriations should grow by 7.5% as against 2013. in accordance with the european council conclusions of 27-28 june, the allocation of eur 6 billion to the youth employment initiative will allow the first disbursements to be made to beneficiaries in eu regions experiencing high youth unemployment rates from january 2014. under heading 2, sustainable growth and national resources, the council proposes to stabilise the level of appropriations as against 2013. nevertheless, it agrees to a slight increase, of 0.27%, in the appropriations for market-related expenditure and direct payments under the european agricultural guarantee fund.
in our view - and that is why we will not agree with it - this is a multiannual financial framework which is not sufficiently environmentally oriented, which does too little to combat climate change and which does not really address the major investment issues in the european union.
now we have heard that even in the context of this restrictive financial framework, the council is still going to cut back in the 2014 budget, especially on research and development and environmental programmes, more than on traditional agriculture - that is the wrong emphasis!
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the following: commission statement on the eu cybersecurity strategy an open, secure and secure cyberspace (2013/2606 ((rsp)) oral question to the council on the digital agenda for growth, mobility and employment by jens rohde, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000085/2013 b7-0219/2013) (2013/2593 ((rsp)) oral question to the commission on the digital agenda for growth, mobility and employment by jens rohde, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000086/2013 b7-0220/2013) (2013/2593 ((rsp)).
in this sense, we must no longer hesitate to impose high and sustainable standards for the security of our networks.
this is about all parts of the digital ecosystem.
i would like to reassure all the honourable members that the commission very much wants to ensure the sustainability of this stock.
i find it intolerable, mr barroso, that during your five years in office, climate protection has been consistently pushed backwards.
i find it intolerable that at a time when the european union is constantly being told that energy efficiency, resource efficiency and renewable energy are the future, that this european union, thanks to the commission, is now trying to create new subsidies for nuclear power, for coal, and to put new technologies and efficiency technologies at a disadvantage.
if they make climate change for the car industry based on a completed trilogue, then i, as german head of government, will make sure that companies from bmw and mercedes disappear from these countries.
(applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, the agrarian reform has done nothing for the environment!
equally importantly to this end, we need to finalise the various proposals under the single market focusing on the digital agenda – something that was raised here in this house yesterday when a very important discussion took place – as well as moving forward with the internal energy market.
what is happening today with the environmental impact assessment, what is happening with many of the proposals you are making here - bans, new permits, new restrictions - is destroying growth, and you are responsible for that.
your whole commitment to climate policy - you have thankfully gone to the 'box' against the great climate sceptics in this house, mr reul, mr farage and others - your verbal commitment is good and beautiful.
i remember a very successful climate policy with stavros dimas, with the former energy commissioner piebalgs.
i see today that you are continually supporting günther oettinger and mr tajani with your unreasonable environmental policy and that sensible people like mrs hedegaard and mr potočnik simply have nothing to say in this debate.
in her report, mrs gomes stresses that global maritime affairs must be regulated to avoid a struggle for resources and the destruction of the ecological base, which could lead to international conflict and militarisation.
it is above all the european appetite for fish and our toxic waste that gave birth to atalanta.
i do not think that is correct, because in the integrated maritime policy - i was rapporteur in 2010 - we also said from the outset that maritime safety aspects are important, not just in terms of environmental protection and illegal activities, but in general.
this applies to all forms of pressure, including the possible misuse of energy pricing, artificial trade obstacles such as import bans of dubious wto compatibility and cumbersome customs procedures, military cooperation and security guarantees and the instrumentalisation of protracted conflicts.
in today’s ever more competitive global economy we cannot afford to waste our efforts on a regional geopolitical rivalry.
that is why it is unacceptable for a country like russia to use trade policy instruments, energy prices or whatever to influence this decision in such a way that it is no longer a free decision, or in the case of armenia even to introduce security policy arguments and pressure instruments.
it is therefore essential that the eu biodiversity compliance requirements take into account the specific role of genetic resources for the food industry and agriculture.
this extraction produces oil in a ratio of 60 to 40. oil is a typical by-product - one might even say a waste product.
i would therefore ask all members to think again about this: europe is producing sustainable, environmentally sound production of renewable raw materials and we should not jeopardise this.
the european eel stock is facing a myriad of problems: overfishing, loss of important habitats, pollution, parasites and changes in ocean currents.
the report is a prerequisite for the implementation of the nagoya protocol on the protection of genetic resources in the eu, in order to preserve biodiversity.
the committee on agriculture calls for the eu to develop a biodiversity strategy for the period up to 2020 in order to contribute to halting the loss of biodiversity worldwide by 2020. i am also glad that the final vote has been suspended.
the european union will also stand ready to provide further support to this end, as we are convinced that this is crucial to build the mutual trust necessary to a sustainable reform process.
these documents shall be forwarded to the committee on industry, research and energy as the committee responsible and to the committee on culture and education, the committee on legal affairs, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and the committee on regional policy as the committees providing advice.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer by mr karl-heinz florenz, mr dan jørgensen, mr chris davies, mr bas eickhout, mr martin callanan and mrs sabine wils, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the state of the european carbon market in 2012 (o-000072/2013 b7-0502/2013) (2012/2900(rsp)).
we discussed a resolution on the carbon market report in the european parliament in the committee on the environment last week and we also rejected it.
we are very happy to join in and say that we need massive structural reforms in the area of the carbon leakage strategy for 2030, and for this the european parliament must also express its opinion in a green paper for 2030. it is very important that we come together because we need structural reforms.
another important point is the question of earmarking: so if money is being made from the auctions of the emissions trading systems, then we really have to think about whether all this can only go to the member states - of course a large part has to go there, but we should also earmark money in this area and make it available for innovation and research funds.
one of my passionate topics is the question of - and then i almost come to the conclusion, mr president: we have the system of cdm, which means that when european companies sell innovative technology, they get a carbon equivalent worldwide.
and, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to make a passionate appeal to you: please do not touch the carbon leakage list!
this was not the moment of glory of the environment committee, which we did without blaming any party there.
i have great hope that we will be wiser and act wiser in the debate between the industry committee and the environment committee on the 2030 targets.
the emissions trading system has been shaken to its very foundations - it must be said - because it has not done what it should have done, namely to play a guiding role.
energy policy is not aligned with the european union's carbon market and this needs to change.
i think we europeans have a sharp sword in our hand there, if we sharpen it again, and then we do better with an emissions trading system than with 28 different tax systems.
we are already seeing in the european union that at one point or another something is moving and climate taxes are being introduced.
no, we have opted for a regulatory instrument, which is emissions trading.
i think that approach is good, but i think we should go in a different direction, where those who invest early... we're in the middle of the debate on co2 emissions from cars, where we squeeze the last gram of co2 out of the exhaust.
if you put a lot of money into your hands, invest in the factory, in low-carbon production processes, then that has to show up in the balance sheet.
the promotion of renewable energy must be as cost-effective as possible, and we must continue to avoid carbon leakage.
this is becoming a crucial issue for the functioning of the emissions trading system.
but that is an important factor, and we as the european parliament should not be so far from that objective in terms of our commitment and the state of emissions trading.
there is a reason why other major economies, other states, are trying now to implement emissions trading schemes.
i heard mr hénin say we could introduce an ecological tax.
i think that, whether we want it or not, most people would agree that we have a market-based system, we have an emissions trading scheme.
b7-0437/2013) by mr matthias groote, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the amendment of regulation (eu) no 432/2012 establishing a list of permitted health claims made on foods (d027417 - 2013/2726 (rps)).
on the one hand a number of meps supported their resolution in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the grounds that the commission exceeded its delegated powers by setting restrictive conditions of use, maintaining that no restrictions for the use of the claim on carbohydrates should be set, which would allow the claim to be used for products containing all carbohydrates, including added sugars.
the debate was closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, pursuant to rule 88 (2) and (3) and (4) (c) of the rules of procedure.
written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty) the vote will take place on wednesday 9 october 2013 at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution (b7-0438/2013) by mr matthias groote, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the amendment of the annexes to regulations (ec) no 853/2004, (ec) no 854/2004 and (ec) no 2074/2005 (d023049/06 - 2013/2720 ((rps)) concerning food and products of animal origin.
the debate was closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, pursuant to rule 88 (2) and (3) and (4) (c) of the rules of procedure.
the european union often fails to take account of the environment, it added.
some people are criticizing the agreement as a waste of taxpayers' money, as a subsidy for industrial fishing.
the strict rules also apply to the chinese and russians, who do not care much about sustainability in fishing.
it thus helps mauritania to make sustainable use of its fish stocks.
it also contributes to environmental protection and food security in west africa.
anyone who says that access to e-cigarettes has been difficult is lying, because what was agreed in the environment committee was very clear: member states can decide where they are to be sold.
the commission's approach - supported by the committee on the environment - to spoil the pleasure of smoking for smokers by imposing certain product formats, flavours and even banning some products altogether seems to me to be an unnecessary stigmatisation of our citizens.
i believe we need good environmental impact assessment legislation.
this is not a very appropriate environmental impact assessment in this particular case, because it is of course also annoying the countries which have done a good job in recent years when it came to the question of how to launch large projects - whether factories, mining, infrastructure projects.
and somehow an attempt has been made to allow projects to be approved more quickly through the revision of the environmental impact assessment.
because inflating the environmental impact assessment will not make projects go faster.
i do not think that the environmental impact assessment, to be quite specific, should contain substantive legal requirements - i.e.
compensation measures, pollution prevention measures, all the things that come with the approval of a project and then the technical legislation applies, i.e.
many of the directives we have drawn up here, such as the industrial emissions directive, which contains limit values and prescribes the best available techniques.
all this is mixed up with the environmental impact assessment, so that there is a great danger that we are creating new bureaucratic obstacles here, which will end up not only with environmentally friendly projects, but may make it unnecessarily difficult to create projects.
the environmental impact should normally be assessed, but this is not the case everywhere in the eu.
i see that many complaints are received about improperly conducted environmental impact assessments.
i also welcome the fact that this directive extends the eia to new areas: biodiversity, climate change and also mountain law.
environmental impact assessment is a tool that affects all areas of life and business.
environmental impact assessments must not be used to prevent economic activities.
it is about doing the right thing in the right places, avoiding negative impacts on people and the environment, promoting sustainable economies and thus safeguarding jobs.
the aim of environmental impact assessments is to be consistent with both societal and environmental needs, in accordance with common sense and the local situation.
it is therefore right that noise pollution should be included.
once again, tomorrow we will have to make a crucial decision on whether we will bring ecology and economics together in a sensible and responsible way or whether we will create a bureaucratic monster that will undoubtedly harm both our environment and our employers and workers.
mr barroso tells us here that he would make a great contribution to less bureaucracy and fewer regulations, and at the same time we are making a proposal that will further tighten up the environmental impact assessment.
why do we choose terms that no one knows exactly what they are, with biodiversity, and that will mean a variety of interpretations later?
this will not help the environment, but it will put jobs at risk!
i share the commission's view that the 25 year old directive needs to be adapted to the new circumstances and environmental factors.
given that noise pollution is one of the most important issues in rhineland-palatinate, our aim must therefore be to ensure that the environmental impact assessment (eia) includes key environmental aspects to protect citizens.
i also do not want a large chinese sovereign wealth fund to ever sue the european union in the united states in an investor-state dispute settlement because we have established a certain environmental legislation.
this is the case for environmental regulation, social legislation, media regulation, etc.
the german government is being sued by an international arbitration court for its decision to abandon nuclear energy, which is supported by a large majority in parliament and in society.
the bilateral investment agreements between china and the member states do not contain a sustainability chapter for the most part.
we also want a clause stating that existing international conventions on human rights and workers' rights and the environment take precedence over the protection rights of investors.
we call in particular for respect for trade union and workers' rights, transparency and environmental protection as laid down in the legislation of both parties.
we're seeing that investment is not paying off because suddenly some kind of permits are being issued too late, and we're still seeing a very uncertain environment for our companies in china.
− mr president, a number of questions have been raised by several members such as, for example, what to do about human rights, about sustainable development matters and others, and also the possible lowering of social standards and workers’ rights.
a specific question raised by ms keller was on investor-state dispute settlement (isds) and that it would not be possible to attack, for example, environmental and other legislation.
what is important, ms keller, is that isds relates not to the legislation, for example environmental legislation itself, but to the way the legislation is applied, so that there can be no discrimination between a european or a chinese company.
in particular, we welcome the support for an agreement that combines investment protection with liberalisation, that establishes a balance between the right to regulate and the right of the investors, that provides legal certainty and clarity to investors on both sides, and that takes into account important issues like environmental protection, labour standards and human rights.
but i think we should think together about how we can continue to maintain our good trade relations with taiwan, how we can continue to expand them and how we can prevent taiwan from being in this environment that i have just described - namely in the environment that we are intensifying trade relations with many countries in taiwan's immediate vicinity, that these countries are partly active in exactly the same industrial sectors and that our european companies are also extremely active, extremely involved in taiwan, that the european union and european investors are among the largest investors in taiwan ... in this context we should think about how we can intensify trade relations with taiwan.
during the work we have focused particularly on reducing exhaust emissions from engines by introducing stricter emission limits.
overall, we can say that the main changes made improve the environmental protection and impact of the recreational craft sector in the european union as a whole.
the proposed directive provides for a second phase of exhaust gas emission limits to reduce annual hydrocarbon oxide and nitrogen emissions by 20% and particulate matter by 34%.
in order to ensure a balanced profile between the various possible alternatives, we have opted for a strategy which, in addition to protecting the environment, has the merit of promoting the competitiveness of the european union's pleasure craft industry.
the package we are discussing today is therefore, in my view, a good example of the marriage of interests between environmental policy and industrial policy which we should seek to promote more and more in european legislation to support the competitiveness of the industrial system.
as regards noise emission limits, our dialogue with the parties concerned has indicated that it would not be appropriate to change them at present, as noise pollution from ships is caused by a number of different factors.
we cannot anticipate the outcome of the work we will undertake in the future, but we will certainly carefully assess the possibility of making further progress in environmental protection and we will certainly also take account of all the needs of growth and employment, with particular attention to small and mediumsized enterprises.
the commission has already proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products.
acer, still a young body, has also been responsible for two years for monitoring the wholesale energy market, for monitoring and for preventing and prohibiting abusive practices in the wholesale energy trade in europe.
this is despite the current difficult economic climate, and in some cases very strict budgetary constraints.
the high representative has welcomed the united nations security council resolution on syrian chemical weapons as representing a major step towards a sustainable and unified international response to the crisis in syria.
as i have said in the past, my objective, our objective is certainly not deregulation of the professions but rather to arrive at a regulatory environment which is proportionate and adapted to the objectives of protecting the general interest.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the eia directive also brings more red tape and legal uncertainty than i could see any benefit for the environment.
the current eia directive and the fha directive already contain strict requirements and conditions to protect the environment.
for example, many people feel left out because they are denied a say or because existing environmental impact assessment rules have not been properly implemented.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the project is not limited to the border.
i do not think that the changes proposed will lead to a balance between the needs of environmental protection and economic development in the future.
given the already high level of public participation in environmental impact assessments, i consider the current arrangements to be fully adequate.
there are growing problems with people who have to leave their homes for various reasons - persecution, poverty, climate change - and we are concerned about how many thousands of people we have to take on our responsibility, to take care of in the rich countries of europe!
we need this much, much money not for eurosur, but for saving the lives of migrants, for welcome centres, for resettlement, for development aid that deserves the name and promotes sustainable development in these countries of origin, and not just capital exports.
as you know, the european economic area agreement was negotiated 20 years ago under circumstances very different from the world we live in today, and the contracting parties are well aware of the changing environment.
we need to underline that the principles of homogeneity and legal certainty guarantee efficiency, sustainability and, ultimately, the credibility of the internal market.
secondly, i would naturally like to hear from you what is going on with the energy agreement, whether the commission is still insisting that an energy agreement with switzerland can only be concluded if at the same time switzerland accepts the institutional framework you have just mentioned and we find a legal body that is acceptable from a european point of view to settle possible points of dispute and from a swiss point of view to be accepted as a 'foreign judge' for the disputes that arise in a few cases, but also between europe and switzerland.
most people still complain about problems with their european fundamental freedoms, environmental legislation and the internal market.
this is a young girl, a young teenager, who, in the violence-ridden swat valley of pakistan, had the courage to say, despite a hostile, male-dominated, violent environment, "i'm going to school!"
we know how it is in everyday life, these button cells are not only disposed of by special waste, but often - because they are often so small - are also disposed of by normal waste, and thereby there is a higher risk of environmental damage.
we must also have very active climate diplomacy.
i have just got back this weekend from the african environment ministers meeting, having had the chance to touch base with representatives from some 55 african countries.
how can we have tangible progress in the discussions on enhancing pre-2020 ambitions – and what about implementation of past decisions, including on adaptation and climate financing?
finally on climate finance, we should not be mistaken in europe.
wherever climate action is really taking place, new industries have emerged, new technologies have emerged, and many jobs have been created.
and i know that not every country can do this at the same pace, but the bottom line is clear: we are winning with climate action, and we are not losing.
mr seeber, if you, as the coordinator of the largest group here, say that the epp is still committed to climate protection, i wonder why you have to say that.
is there any doubt in your group that climate action is important or that we must go further than we have gone with the package?
the commissioner, apart from the question of financing, is also asking us what this rich europe is doing about reducing emissions.
europe has everything it needs to take the lead on climate action.
we have not yet used a number of instruments that we need to use to make sure that market forces actually do what we want, which is to make resources and energy more efficient.
we know that belarus, georgia and ukraine are located on this transit route of the energy pipelines, and it is therefore perfectly legitimate for russia to try to represent its interests here.
such a development would help to address the root causes of the crisis and contribute to ensuring sustainable peace in mali, while preventing escalation in the neighbouring countries.
the vote will take place on tuesday, 22 october 2013, at 11.30 a.m.
the next item on the agenda is the briefing by mrs corina creţu on the report on local authorities and civil society: europe's commitment to sustainable development (2012/2288 (ini)) (a7-0296/2013).
− mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank and congratulate mrs creţu for the report presented today, as it largely endorses the political vision that the commission put forward in its two communications – one being ‘the roots of democracy and sustainable development: europe’s engagement with civil society in external relations’, which was adopted in september 2012, and the second being ‘empowering local authorities in partner countries for enhanced governance and more effective development outcomes’, adopted in may 2013. the commission is committed to promoting a more ambitious partnership with civil society organisations and local authorities.
the promotion of an enabling and conducive environment for both actors is our major policy priority.
i believe that we have succeeded today in taking the environment committee's proposal a step further.
it is not good for us to have a debate here that focuses on the black sheep and those who are on the move with criminal energy.
quick, simple solutions, but not negligent ones, scientifically sound, not too complicated, sustainable and traceable.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the committee is deeply concerned that the resources proposed by the commission for the 2014 budget in the area of environment, climate and health are not enough to meet the real challenges ahead.
the committee on the environment has therefore proposed that we should at all events return to the commission's draft budget and even go beyond it in some budget lines.
regions that adopt a climate-friendly approach to transport, the environment, energy and waste should be considered for an award.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the european union is and remains an economic and values community, and all the countries that have joined the eu or cooperate in partnership have experienced this in a sustainable way, with benefits for their democratic development and their country's standard of living.
and they need a lot of fuel to run, and they cause an incredible amount of pollution.
we made a clear statement at that time in favour of a sustainable fisheries policy.
so let us complete the reform tomorrow and vote for a sustainable fisheries fund, let us show courage once again!
i believe that measures to control, collect data and combat youth unemployment are sustainable.
building new ships is the opposite of sustainability.
we must therefore do everything we can to ensure that fisheries are truly sustainable, in the spirit of the fisheries reform.
so there are a whole range of things that we can promote to ensure that fishermen are still allowed to fish in a sustainable way.
and i say, particularly to you in the commission and in the council, that you have a great deal of responsibility for whether we will have more right-wing populists, people with a national mindset, sitting here in the next parliamentary term, or whether there are people here who are really fighting for a european union in which everyone can find themselves and who also have solutions in place that are really sustainable for the future.
we don't talk about what the real reasons are for people coming here, why we as the european union have a duty to create legal pathways so that people fleeing hunger, climate disasters, wars or poverty are at least treated humanely, and that we have a duty to these values.
in a world in flux, europe’s broad security environment is in flux too.
these range from environmental problems stemming from climate change – the main target for our assistance in recent years – to the spread of drug trafficking and addiction, especially among young people.
in preparation for the debate, i have looked again at oil production in russia in general and found a shocking figure: 5 million tonnes of oil are released into the environment every year from oil drilling in russia.
it is about protecting the arctic, but it is also about the europeans explaining to russia what is going on there and what we will not tolerate, not only in terms of environmental policy but also in terms of democracy and the right to freedom.
greenpeace is famous, and admittedly notorious, for its sensational campaigns to raise awareness of environmental concerns.
we must not forget that ionizing radiation continues to play a very important role in europe, for example in the production of electricity from nuclear energy, but also in the field of ionizing radiation in medicine for diagnosis and therapy, ionizing radiation in the field of materials testing technology and the like.
in future, further data should be collected and evaluated and then, eventually, a separate directive should be drawn up, which can then be considered as an environmental directive under the lisbon treaty.
the member states should be able to set higher safety standards for man and the environment than those required by the directive.
we should acquire new knowledge and a better understanding of the environment in which we live, and this should then be reflected in appropriate policy answers and proposals.
i would like finally again to thank all of you in the european parliament, in particular the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and particularly mr ulmer, for a very good report.
perhaps one more sentence: as we delve deeper into quantum physics, we will think about it for a long time and probably also come to the conclusion that high-energy radiation was once the basis for the creation of our universe and ultimately life.
the environment action programme is an important instrument for the purposeful and coherent pursuit of the various aspects of a balanced european environmental policy.
the crucial thing is that, with the help of the new environmental action programme, we will succeed in linking environmental policy and economic policy well in the coming years.
first, we need to take a strategic approach to limiting landfilling to non-recyclable waste by 2020 and to the goal of reducing waste in the oceans.
the public must be made more aware of the need to avoid waste and thus reduce the overall amount of waste.
it is the basis of a healthy environment and it is the capital of good agricultural production.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr gaston franco, for the environmental action programme and the report.
what i said was that the existing framework of the danube strategy, which includes practically all countries except poland - but i said that poland can be associated with certain projects - already covers the various issues you raised, including the need for interconnection, infrastructure, education, the environment.
a long list of issues was debated, from the participation of young people in the democratic process to energy efficiency.
moreover, parliament has followed exactly this procedure, for example, with the climate change package, as it has done with the staff regulations.
this is what we want young people to experience in this way, where their place is in society, not only what they have learned in school, but also what they have learned in the intercultural environment.
because this project connecting europe facility and then the infrastructure in the transport, energy and digital sectors is really something that we needed urgently.
it allows citizens to become directly active across the borders of their member states in order to make europe come alive from below, to build up in the various fields of concern here, from cultural issues, historical issues, reworking to issues of shaping the future, environmental issues, democratic issues - a very fruitful and meaningful programme.
i very much welcome the fact that the new gpa explicitly states that in future, contracting authorities will be able to mention environmental concerns in the technical specifications.
ladies and gentlemen, you know that my group sees public procurement in particular as one of the most important instruments for using taxpayers' money to provide important economic stimulus in individual regions, to promote employment, to set social standards and to promote important environmental principles.
according to my analysis, eu clients can still require compliance with labour and environmental legislation and with pay standards, provided that these standards apply equally to eu suppliers and to suppliers from the gpa countries.
i want to emphasize once again: we stress that one of the main tasks of governments at different levels, and thus of the commission in relation to the european union, must be to ensure the provision of services of general interest and, in particular, access to basic services such as water, housing, waste management, health, education and culture for its population.
you know, compared to china and the united states, the area you claim to be most important to, namely innovation, sustainable investment for the future, research and development and education, accounts for just 13 percent of the total budget.
it is wrong to continue to spend so much on mass animal husbandry instead of finally on ecological priority areas.
we're not investing enough in a low-carbon economy.
this is where the european union's sustainable innovation power really comes from.
we are still spending too little on renewable energy and too little on fighting youth unemployment.
what particularly shocked me was that in the 2014 budget you were not even prepared to allow full flexibility for sustainable development.
combating climate change through, for example, improved energy efficiency is one of our priorities.
and all in all, it will be a really smart policy for citizens, building a sustainable future.
in future, for example, a three-digit billion will be spent on research and innovation, on business support and, of course, on training and jobs, on broadband development and on measures to reduce co2 emissions.
we're doing more on carbon and we're addressing demographic change.
we have achieved that at least 12 to 20% of erdf investments can be channelled into a low-carbon economy.
this reform will strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion within the european union, while at the same time aligning the structural funds on the basis of measurable indicators - and this is the reform - towards an innovative, sustainable and inclusive europe.
we abstain from the erdf because, for example, regional airports are to be supported in general, not just their environmental protection measures, although it is well known that airports are among the biggest polluters.
there is no real cutting of bureaucracy, no sustainable programme to fight poverty, which we urgently need.
and if you think, ladies and gentlemen of the majority groups, that you can now wave your hand through this, then you are heralding the end of a solidary and sustainable eu regional policy.
in 1979 simone veil said: 'dès mon élection, j'ai alerté tout le monde sur ce gâchis de temps et d'argent' (dès my election, i have alerted everyone to this waste of time and money) and this is the first time that the french government has been able to use this opportunity to make a statement on the subject.
since my election, i have been warning the world that this is how it's going to be this waste of time and money cannot last forever.
parliament is commuting between strasbourg and brussels and no citizen understands why we do this, why we spend so much time, so much money, why we blow so much co2 into the environment.
we are now asking all the people of europe, and we are asking the governments of europe, to take drastic measures: to cut back on money, but also on, for example, climate-damaging behaviour.
i know of much more sustainable, better solutions when it comes to the interests of a city or a region.
we cannot afford to see the world climate negotiations or other international negotiations on the future of mankind fail.
we need a real commitment to multilateralism and, at the same time, we need a structural reform of the wto in order to guarantee a fair trading system, based on shared rules, that takes into account the pressing global challenges such as climate change, poverty, social exclusion, gender disparity and migration.
we also want to highlight other proposals, for example on liability regimes, authorisation procedures, penalties, the obligation to update regularly - the original draft even included the carbon footprint.
parliament has successfully reduced the much-debated ecological priority areas from the original 7% to 5%.
contrary to the commission's proposal, these areas may be used for the cultivation of protein crops or perennial energy crops.
we have the most sustainable agriculture in the world in the eu.
this is vital for a sustainable, productive and competitive agriculture sector in the union.
the cap will continue to be a vital union policy, allowing us to maintain a sustainable, productive and competitive agricultural sector and a thriving countryside across the union.
i think it is all the more so because it corresponds to the expectations of the agricultural sector, the rural environment and the european citizens.
in parallel, the european agricultural sector, with the support of the cap, will put in place concrete measures to preserve biodiversity, soil quality, water quality and to combat climate change.
again, the aim is to preserve what makes the european agricultural sector rich: efficient ecosystems, in the long term, to ensure the construction of a sustainable competitiveness of european agriculture.
i think that this is the way we will solve the problem of food security, with sustainable agriculture, and not by depleting the resources we have.
ecological priority areas: 5% of the area without chemicals, that's too much for the conservatives.
have you ever heard of biodiversity, of climate change?
we agree with the second pillar because i believe that we have now reached the point where 30% of the funds for agri-environmental measures are actually committed.
all the environmental organizations say that's the only way to do something about biodiversity and the environment.
i do not understand why this is being attacked and why the fight against ecological approaches is suddenly being put at the centre of this debate.
agriculture should contribute that much to the protection of the environment!
so whether it's in the first pillar, where we stuff greening into it, by saying, we know better how to manage your land, we don't trust you to have an interest in preserving the environment, in doing sustainable business, and in being there for the next generation.
in the first pillar, payments are still distributed on a per-glass basis and are not really linked to environmental performance.
the commission has proposed 7% ecological priority areas.
these are definitely not ecological priority areas.
- mr president, i shall not waste my time, especially since many of those to whom i wished to reply are no longer here and have left the chamber.
on greening, the introduction of a 30 % greening component for first-pillar farm payments has been a huge challenge in this reform, and i am convinced that greening will provide a strong incentive to enhance the contribution of farmers to the eu’s environmental and climate goals while at the same time ensuring the long-term sustainability of european agriculture.
i am convinced that the programmes can be continued here and that there will be no break in the agricultural policy, because the rest of the agricultural policy can be largely implemented only in 2015. i would like to reject the allegations made by certain colleagues that those who are critical of greening - and in particular of this priority area scheme - are opposed to more biodiversity.
we have 10 acres of environmental measures now.
we will take the remaining 8 hectares out of the environmental programme and intensify production there so that we can balance these 2 hectares and thus, in the end, also restore the company's economic results.
so we'll have less biodiversity on our farm, but we'll be following the greening requirements.
i do not imagine that in the future, we will be able to reduce biodiversity by harassing it.
in addition, there is a programme for employment and social innovation, as well as financial support for business start-ups to create sustainable jobs.
owing to the significant and ongoing changes in our geopolitical environment, we must find ways to ensure that european defence lives up to its responsibilities and ambitions.
mrs koppa and mr gahler, the points made in both your reports on gathering intelligence in space, on cyber security threats, on the importance of protecting europe’s energy supply and energy efficiency in defence are also all well made.
in today’s financial climate, the challenges of enhancing the eu’s defence capabilities largely come down to the issue of pooling and sharing.
a strong, innovative and sustainable industrial base is needed to provide such capabilities.
i think that the dangers we face, if we look at the energy situation, for example, show that we have to have our own capabilities.
this is a strong call for the leaders to attend to security and defence issues on a regular basis, to monitoring progress and to providing new energy, so that we can concentrate our efforts on implementation.
it is a very successful programme with sustainable investments.
there is a sub-programme on climate coming up.
developing the ability to design good and long-term environmental and climate projects has implications beyond life.
a small part of the next life budget will therefore be used to support life contact points for training and for exchanges between environmental authorities.
the project will also involve cooperation between different funds under the leadership of life to tackle major challenges in the fields of water, waste, climate or nature conservation.
this is a really efficient use of funds for the benefit of the economy and the environment.
it is now up to the regions, national authorities and environmental organisations to really get their act together!
we started with the first environmental budget lines.
but i must reaffirm what margarete auken said: i am already concerned when we hear the news - i hope it is only a rumor - that the 25% of the climate programme is to be spent more through financial instruments.
but i think the traditional climate projects are also part of that, and i'm sure the ngos will thank you for that.
we are moving away from this claim with higher error rates and the same anomalies: tendering procedures, incorrect information on area sizes, circumvention of environmental requirements are examples of this.
it is important for me to stress in the plenary of the european parliament that mistakes are not fraud, and that mistakes are not necessarily waste, but that there are payments and projects with errors which can ultimately create european added value for the european taxpayer.
the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
it is clarified that a postponement to a later date by 2020 is only allowed if the economic and social sustainability of the fleets involved is seriously threatened.
the parliament was able to make one thing clear in this context: the objective of all measures is to increase stocks beyond a sustainable level.
we are developing aquaculture in europe in a coordinated and sustainable way.
the commission is proposing to increase the quota for sustainable fishing in future.
we will have to continue to work hard to preserve our marine environment while ensuring a future for european fisheries.
thank you, commissioner damanaki, for your tireless work on sustainable fisheries.
from january 2014 we will have a law that will be a win-win situation for all - for the fishermen, for the environment, for the fish and for the consumers.
the marine environment is healing, and we'll only read about overfishing in the history books.
if we risk destroying an ecosystem that is good for growing fish, we are cutting ourselves in the flesh.
the vote will take place today, 10 december, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the debate on the report by elisabetta gardini, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on a union civil protection procedure (com ((2011) 0934 - c7-0519/2011 - 2011/0461 (cod)) (a7-0003/2013).
nevertheless, the adoption of the decision will contribute to more efficient and sustainable civil protection within and outside the union.
in conclusion, i would just like to point out that all actions of the instrument for stability and peace must take into account the following principles: the promotion of democracy and good governance, human rights and humanitarian law, including the rights of children and indigenous peoples, non-discrimination, gender justice and women's empowerment, conflict prevention and climate change.
what i am particularly pleased about is that the climate in parliament has apparently also changed the procedure in favour of the opposition, so that it may now be possible to change the political climate.
energy, transport, telecoms and payments services are mentioned in particular.
how can the union respond in a comprehensive manner to the rapid evolution of europe’s strategic and geopolitical environment and address new security – notably energy, cyber and maritime – challenges?
i should add, by way of conclusion, that the european council is also expected to look at enlargement issues – as is usual in december – and to welcome two energy council reports on progress to create the eu internal energy market and on developments since 2011 regarding strengthening the external dimension of eu energy policy.
the reports will serve as a further impetus to continue our work in the energy sector, which is key to european competitiveness, growth and security of supply.
and the second is, if work is done, of course, there's a decent, sustainable income that comes with it.
that is why it is so important that we talk at the heart of this report about how we can now find a viable and sustainable architecture for europe after this breathless phase of rescue measures.
we have a wide range of uses for the seas, and these are increasing: traditionally, shipping and fishing, but also energy production from offshore energy sources, such as oil and gas, and wind energy.
at the same time, the sea is a very sensitive ecosystem that naturally needs to be protected.
if we want to do more marine research and more marine economy in the future and to use the sea more, then we need to see that this ecosystem is protected.
to prevent this from happening, the eu in 2007 created an integrated maritime policy, which is designed to help develop marine activities in a sustainable way across sectors and borders, and to see how economic, social and environmental factors can interact.
and this is necessary because, of course, with the growing use of the oceans, we need to look at what parts of the ocean can be used for what, how best to do that, and how to describe the interaction between the ocean and the coast in a way that is sustainable.
the future development of european seas in particular is to be continued with aquaculture, with blue biotechnology, for example with more extraction of mineral resources from the sea, with energy, for example from wave energy and other sources, and with even more ships.
− mr president, europe’s maritime policy has become an essential part of the european union’s collective work to strengthen our economies, create jobs and protect the marine environment.
a major step forward for the eu’s integrated maritime policy was made a year ago in limassol, when the 27 member states endorsed our blue growth initiative for a competitive, innovative and sustainable maritime economy.
the key concepts here are the reconciliation of economic and environmental concerns and the harmonious coexistence of different activities.
putting the ecosystem-based approach at the heart of ocean-related decision making and the management of activities also forms an essential part of the chapter on oceans in the rio+20 declaration of last year, to which we are all committed.
let me underline that an ecosystem-based approach is an internationally established, adaptive management approach for marine systems that inherently addresses economic and social aspects and therefore covers the three pillars of sustainability.
it strengthens our conviction that this directive will greatly contribute to the sustainable development of activities in, and uses of, our marine and coastal areas.
at the same time, it will also contribute to the sustainable use of our precious marine and coastal resources.
it is necessary that we also clearly indicate the shipping lanes, the fishing grounds mapped in their specific areas, the tourist areas and, of course, the protected areas, such as natura 2000 or very important bird areas and others, so that they remain available to us in an ecological sense.
offshore wind turbines are playing an increasingly important role in renewable energy.
there is sustainable tourism, there is shipping, there is fishing.
the strategy on green infrastructure which the commission presented in may sets out ideas on how nature-based solutions like green infrastructure can protect biodiversity, enhance the economic benefits that our nature delivers, and contribute to growth and jobs.
local initiatives to invest in green infrastructure are creating jobs in planning, building energy-efficient green roofs and walls, restoring and maintaining urban and rural ecosystems, and restoring brownfield sites and watercourses.
finally, green infrastructure is a key tool in mitigating and adapting to climate change.
the target of 5% of erdf resources for ʻintegrated sustainable urban development measuresʼ also provides opportunities for financing urban green infrastructure.
sustainability is the credo of all things.
in the context of biodiversity policy, the commission has now presented a strategy for a pan-european green infrastructure.
these objectives are not new and are reflected in many related regulations and directives, indeed they are at the heart of any environmental policy.
we have just decided on ecological priority areas under the common agricultural policy.
in addition, agriculture is committed to sustainability through cross compliance under the agricultural policy.
the value of nature cannot be measured solely and exclusively in terms of ecological aspects.
the environmental, social and economic values must be weighed against each other.
for example, it is not appropriate to mention in this paper certain habitats that make a particular contribution to climate change policy.
for example, it is not sufficiently certain that the conservation of forests actually leads to an improved carbon balance in the long term.
of course there are opportunities, of course environmental policy should be used to get investment, to create jobs.