the european parliament's journey between brussels and strasbourg is a waste of time and a detriment to the environment.
but above all it is a dark day for the environment and for the taxpayers of the european union.
i also think that we should have time to reflect on the content of the judgment in order to reduce the economic costs and environmental impact of the many journeys.
no one has been satisfied with it, whether it be the fisheries sector, scientists, environmental organisations, coastal communities or politicians.
we are now getting more sustainable fisheries by increasing stocks, stopping the discarding of edible fish and getting rid of the rules that have contributed to this!
if the rumours are true, the eu leaders will agree in the coming days to cut proposed investments in research, transport and energy without in any way deciding which projects should not be implemented.
– madam president, probably apart from the reports by the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change, i do not think any report has been quoted as frequently as the stern review of 2006 in which sir nicholas stern tells us just how catastrophic and costly the effects of climate change will be if we do not act.
last week nicholas stern gave an interview in which he said that he had got it wrong on climate change and that it is far, far worse.
global emissions need to peak in 2015 if we are to stay below 2°c, after which the self-enhancing effect sets in.
this is important because we are now facing a revision of the eia directive, at the same time as we are facing the adoption of a new framework programme for the environmental action plan, in which the implementation of legislation is at the very heart.
having regard to the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, we spend 50 billion a year on agriculture.
that we require their production to be sustainable.
not by us in the committee on the environment - we have, on the contrary, proposed to strengthen the proposal even further - but by the committee on agriculture in this parliament.
if we look at the biodiversity of europe, it is too declining.
if we look at water pollution in europe, it comes primarily from agriculture.
if we look at greenhouse gases, 10% of them come from agriculture.
that is why we must make demands, and that is why i would also ask the commissioner to stress what environment commissioner potočnik has said, that some of the compromises we have from the committee on agriculture will be directly harmful to the european environment.
it is not good for society, it is not good for the environment, and it is not good for consumers.
we must be able to approve the future budgetary framework before it can be finally adopted, and the legal basis, which includes the whole reform of the eu's agricultural policy, which has just been debated, regional policy, research, training programmes, investment in transport, energy and much more.
so too do investments in transport, energy and telecommunications.
further, it does not reflect the priorities that are necessary to achieve job creation and sustainable economic development.
firstly, on climate: we need ambitious policy at a time when we are constantly told that our climate action may be even worse than we thought it would be in relation to the real problems that exist.
secondly, in relation to the eu: we know that the price of carbon is so low, the price of co2 emissions is so low now, that our whole system and our efforts are at risk of collapse if we don't step up.
i have to tell them that it will be bad for the climate, it will be bad for the eu's climate policy and it will be bad for denmark if they do not change their position before the vote tomorrow.
we have just adopted an energy efficiency directive that will definitely also point us in the right direction.
but because this is a huge, massive problem, there needs to be a fundamental change in the way we consume and produce energy.
if you are referring to a carbon tax as a possible alternative, there are many reasons why that might be an even better solution, but it is just not very plausible.
how can you even think that it is possible or feasible to have a carbon tax on the scale that you talk about within this time frame?
we will then find that we will have 27 national schemes, and then it is the portfolio of each country that determines how much support it will wish to give in future to innovative new energy.
europe is becoming more and more dependent on imported energy, and it is no good believing that it is so easy to say no and we will get cheaper electricity.
we need a change in europe, pollution cannot be free!
- i am opposed in principle to the ets system and the approach of combating climate change with market-based instruments.
however, in the actual situation, a vote against the backloading proposal would politically signal a halt to investment in low-carbon and renewable energy technologies.
a vote against the proposal would also be a political signal that climate policy is not a priority.
by voting in favour of the motion, i am voting in favour of making climate policy a priority.
but above all, the ets system should be fundamentally revised, as it is in no way an effective instrument to combat climate change.
but the problem is not lessened if the eu's policies in agriculture, fisheries, energy and trade also have a negative impact on developing countries' efforts to combat poverty and ensure sustainable development.
since then, a group of environmental experts have been working together to create a new support model.
i think it must be admitted and recognised that we can all benefit from having an internal energy market.
it is clear that this will strengthen our security of supply at a time when more and more people are using energy policy as a power policy.
but if the common energy market is to work, then it is not appropriate for us to have many different internal conflicting arrangements between countries.
we saw last time, when we were here in strasbourg, during the vote on the withdrawal of quotas from the quota system, how it was really - at least from a danish point of view - a choice between plague and cholera, because one model led to higher pso, that is to say higher public expenditure on the danish electricity bill, and the other model led to an increase in the general level of energy and electricity prices.
such national schemes are not compatible with an international market, they are not compatible with an internal market, and as long as we have such differences, it is an illusion to talk about an internal energy market!
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
but why spend so much energy making it complicated instead of making it clear?
- we, the danish social democrats, support the aim of examining the impact of speed on road accidents and the environment and do not believe that a link between increased speed on the one hand and the incidence of road accidents and the impact on the environment on the other can be excluded.
and the more of us who get a little bit right on this issue, the more chance we have of getting a majority so broad that the market starts to act on it, and then we can achieve our goal of a better environment and of creating jobs and jobs in this area.
almost all energy consumption in the transport sector is fossil fuels.
the eu faces a bleak future with rising energy demand, greater oil shortages, higher oil prices and increased dependence on oil imports.
the result is uncertainty in the energy supply.
the only sensible course for the eu is to invest in a greener and more sustainable transport sector.
along with electric cars, advanced biofuels are part of a sustainable path towards fossil-free transport.
the potential of advanced biofuels is enormous, both in terms of climate and in terms of job creation.
this is an artificial way of achieving our 10% renewable energy target in the transport sector and it is contrary to the spirit of the renewable energy directive that we adopted in this house in 2008.
on behalf of the alde group.
european liberals of course strongly support the ambition of creating an internal market for energy in the eu because a common european market will ensure energy supplies to consumers and companies at more affordable and competitive prices.
this stimulates growth and job creation in europe and increases our energy security.
furthermore, an internal market for energy is an important part of the path towards more sustainable energy production.
that is quite obvious to us all, but we should also recognise that there is a long way to go before we can realise our vision for an internal market for energy in the eu.
today the european parliament is sending out a strong and unmistakable message to the governments in europe that they must live up to their commitments in the third energy package, and we are also highlighting the importance of a more coordinated approach at eu level towards national capacity mechanisms.
it is not sustainable, and i would say that it is a budget of savings already from the commission, a budget which is 5-6% below the level of this year, so the commission already presented a budget of savings.
first of all, i would like to thank all my colleagues in the committee on industry, research and energy for their tremendous cooperation.
for the first time we made a resolution that went through the committee on industry, research and energy with a single vote and all parties are on board.
only a single telecom market will allow the whole digital ecosystem to recapture a leading global role.
it will help us build a connected, competitive continent with sustainable digital jobs and industries.
even more alarming than the flagrant violation of greenpeace are the plans for oil exploration in the fragile arctic environment.
decisions are rarely better than the basis on which they are made, so it is important that decisions with far-reaching environmental consequences are thoroughly investigated.
i welcome the fact that the proposal calls for environmental assessments to include aspects that improve environmental protection, increase resource efficiency and promote sustainable growth in europe.
it is important for the people and for the environment.
but we must not have greenhouse cuts where you automatically cut all agencies and make it impossible for them to work, or cut agencies at random.
in my country, it takes a fairly big effort to qualify for unemployment benefits, and it is not sustainable if eu citizens from other countries are given an easier path into the system, which is quite rewarding.
it was almost like hearing the best part of my own country's environmental policy for a while, that we are now moving towards or we should be moving towards a completely different way of thinking about energy, climate, resources, waste, biodiversity, etc.
- i voted for amendment no 6 because it stresses the importance of international trade being based much more on standards in health, social rights, working conditions and the environment - and the importance of trade agreement negotiations being based on the involvement of a wide range of interests in society.
the budget will be much larger than in the previous period for investments in transport and energy, and the digital agenda is still there, although it is also affected by savings.
we have always declared our readiness to find savings and to make efficiency improvements, also in the agencies, but not by automatic greenhouse savings.
the greening will be voluntary, so the environmental impact will not be visible or measurable.
the reform is a lost opportunity to make eu agriculture green, climate-friendly and competitive.
the knowledge we have from the so-called soft sciences is a prerequisite for solving the major societal challenges such as population ageing, immigration and changes in people's behaviour in relation to climate and green solutions.
it is good that we have integrated projects and that the emphasis is on climate now that money has really come in for climate adaptation.
in many of our countries we are carrying out important projects which take account of nature and are aimed at climate adaptation and at preventing the disasters that otherwise come our way.
however, there have been rumors that this climate money could slip away again and go to private companies, which can make it difficult to see whether the money will actually benefit the climate, nature and the environment, or whether it goes to other purposes that we cannot see.
the proposal is basically about insuring against environmental degradation and climate change.
instead of considering climate and environmental considerations as isolated aspects, they must now be integrated into all key policy areas, and i am very pleased about this!
at the same time, we are sending an important signal to the ongoing cop19 negotiations in poland that the eu is taking its environmental and climate commitments seriously and putting action behind words.
it only means that they have to change their fishing technique to more sustainable gears, as is already practised in some regions of the european union.
i think that this can be a step towards protection of our deep-sea environment and also towards protecting the sustainability of our fisheries.
if the deal is possible, it will be ok. if the deal is not possible, then we have to take decisions for sustainability.
then the member states will push in the council to have their share too, so we may end up with an olympic fishery approach and we may end up with a situation that will not be good for the sustainability of the stocks.
having regard to the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, - mr president, i have to say something.
if we continue with deep-sea trawling, we will not only damage the marine environment, we will damage the legitimacy and reputation of this assembly!