as the shadow rapporteur on energy policy, i believe that european energy policy must contribute to efficiency, security and sustainability.
it is therefore necessary to harmonize energy policy with cohesion policy.
it is true that there is no single energy model in europe, but there are differences.
in my country, for example, we have energy surpluses, energy which is exported and for which we pay more than in other countries and more than in the rest of europe.
the report acknowledges that this needs to be corrected, because large scale renewable energy projects often export energy out of the place where it is produced.
european funds should therefore contribute to energy efficiency by promoting inclusive renewable energy sources that are fairly priced and not disproportionately priced.
what are transnational energy sources?
is shale gas a transnational source of energy, as our committee on regional development has denied?
the reports we are debating today, and for which i congratulate the rapporteurs, highlight the new challenges: urban renewal from the point of view of social sustainability, the reinforcement of the territorial objective.
we have spoken of a reasonable indicator, which could be gross domestic product, but we have also spoken of fixed correctors which can take account of non-measurable damage, such as damage to the landscape or environmental damage, which undoubtedly affects the regions, the way of life and the inhabitants.
we have a report that opens up the possibility that this can change, that the benefits, both economic and sustainability and environmental, can also be shared by these communities.
and of course, we must ensure that science, research, scientists can access the natural resources databases, support scientific research on biodiversity, and in doing so we all win.
i think we should make the most of it, but the advantage of the eit, as i said before, is the leverage money that is created by the very small amount of 25% of what needs to be invested for them to grow and be sustainable.
− thank you, ms madurell, for all the hard work that you are doing with your fellow rapporteurs in the committee on industry, research and energy to support horizon 2020. you have made a good point.
that is why it is crucially important, as i said, even when net contributors want to reduce the overall budget, that within that proposal they look crucially at what is good for growth, jobs and sustainability within the european union.
the report insists on developing sustainable programmes for the recovery of cities under participatory planning dynamics that allow citizens to develop the kind of city they want to live in.
the focus of our amendments was to improve the text and to stress the importance of pockets of poverty, citizens involvement and environmental concerns.
however, the use of structural funds and certain eu sector policies such as transport and environment have significant impact on the design of cities and planning processes.
this could enrich environmental, territorial, commercial, transport and infrastructure policies, via a mixed use of the territory, which integrates tangible infrastructure and intangible network systems.
− all the tools at our disposal are needed for sustainable economic growth.
economic growth that brings sustainable job creation, social cohesion and enhanced and better quality of life should be a public policy that has to be carried out.
we are in favour of a well-functioning solidarity fund that contributes to improving sustainability and effectiveness in disaster prevention and response.
we tabled a number of amendments aiming to stress the sustainability of interventions and coherence with national mechanisms.
− living in a climate of continual delocalisation and corporate restructuring, it is of the utmost importance that employees have a say and are consulted during these processes.
some very important amendments have been successful such as: (am) illegal dumping of toxic waste in somali coastal waters and relevant unep report; (3) eusr should have adequate resources and direct access to csdp structures; (38) need to spend eu money on investigating and prosecuting illegal waste dumping in somali coastal waters; (39) need for impartial and independent humanitarian assistance; (52) the need to engage – as eu and ashton – in mediation including women's associations.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
− genetic resources coming from our environment and, in particular, traditional communities around the world, are of great importance to enhance our agriculture and improve productivity.
so i think it is appropriate to react at this time, in a climate where our societies, with suicidal desist, are not aware of the potential threats posed by the terrorist threat, except when it manifests itself at home.
in the sixth year of the crisis, more and more citizens are criticising europe for not mobilising all the means at its disposal to restore growth, create jobs and strengthen public finances in the member states in a sustainable way.
banking union will help us to prevent and limit the moral hazard of private debt and should be complemented by fiscal union in the public sphere; it needs to establish the conditions for euro area member states to reduce their debt, to keep it sustainable at reasonable levels and to avoid excessive costs or differentials in their financing.
this reflects the difficult situation of europe in the crisis, which is analysed in the commission public finance reports of 2011 and 2012. i take due note of the fact that your motion for a resolution concludes that ensuring the sustainability of public finances is necessary.
– madam president, how to take care of public finances to make them sustainable is the main political and economic issue of this decade.
giving the commission the power to decide directly on the livelihood of many mediterranean stocks is a transfer of sovereignty which will undoubtedly cause problems for the social sustainability of mediterranean fish stocks.
- i voted in favour of this report as it supposes ratification of the nagoya-kuala lumpur protocol on the protection of biodiversity.
this is the legal definition of genetically modified organisms which can cause incalculable damage to the biodiversity of the planet through contamination of other varieties.
the ratification of this protocol increases its importance at international level so that it is ratified by more countries, so that it begins to be an effective binding instrument in the regions of the earth where there is more risk of pollution due to this type of organisms.
i voted in favour of this report because of the threat to biodiversity posed by living modified organisms.
the nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol on liability and redress will greatly contribute to achieving the objectives of the convention on biological biodiversity and of the cartagena protocol on biosafety.
along the same lines as the european environmental liability directive of 2004, this supplementary protocol will specifically address liability and compensation for damage to biodiversity resulting from lmos.
on the positive side, the report contains a recognition that the economic downturn threatens the consolidation efforts; a recognition that private debt is a major cause of the crisis, next to public debt; an explicit call for differentiated fiscal consolidation and encouragement to revise consolidation paths when the macroeconomic environment changes; a call to release assumptions made when assessing multiplier effects of expenditure on gdp; explicit wording stressing the need to safeguard eu2020-related and sustainable-growth-enhancing expenditure such as r&d, education, health and energy efficiency; a call for combating tax fraud & evasion; and a call for addressing macroeconomic imbalances in a symmetric rationale.
− how to take care of public finances to make them sustainable is the main political and economic issue of this decade.
the legislation also requires qualifications to take a broader view of risk, including, for example, environmental risk.
- i voted in favour of this report as it represents a step forward in the sustainable exploitation of cod stocks in the baltic sea.
the measures adopted in this report are all intended to restore fishing for this species in a sustainable way, and that is why i voted in favour.
the report seeks to increase and establish viable technical criteria to enable the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources.
mr president, as the representative of a region, the basque country, with a high degree of industrial activity and therefore very sensitive to energy costs, i welcome with satisfaction this commitment to incorporate energy into cohesion policies.
it is very timely to offer the regions the possibility of being more proactive in their energy diversification policies.
unfortunately, the necessary reflection we are adopting today will not help to solve other urgent problems in the energy market which require immediate intervention.
among them, the alteration of the rules of competition already produced by the legislation applying to indirect co2 emissions with a view to meeting the targets for reducing carbon emissions by 2020 would stand out.
some energy-intensive sectors are beginning to feel the effects on their balance sheets and employment potential, undermining the investment and technological effort they have made in recent years to be able to take the lead in competitiveness in their sectors.
i therefore call on the european parliament and the european commission to take action and find solutions to this serious energy problem.
- i did not vote in favour of this report because it involves a process of energy integration in the union which includes the complete liberalisation of the sector.
the focus of this report is on the use of cohesion policy to implement access to energy throughout the union and the modernisation of existing energy generation and heating systems.
it is considerably vague with respect to permitted practices, allowing the exploitation of gas by hydraulic fracturing, highly damaging to the environment.
energy is a vital sector for the european economy and leaving it to the private interests of certain business groups will mean the end of member states' energy policy and the submission to these private interests.
the original draft report represented the particular interests of rapporteur kolarska-bobinska, in particular in its initial paragraph 12 that explicitly stated that ‘not only low-carbon, but all low-emission sources of energy, such as shale gas, ought to be accepted, including those of a transitional nature’.
without reasonably cheap energy our companies will not be competitive enough in the globalised world and thus will be facing unfair competition from third countries.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the european union must support developing countries by encouraging their exports, but we must also require them to comply with minimum standards of safety at work, respect for workers' rights, ensure that child labour is not used or that environmental protection measures are respected, so that we do not have to mourn the deaths of more victims of similar accidents.
we are witnessing, mr president, social and environmental dumping in many developing countries, not only in textiles but in many companies and factories in various sectors.
the european union must ensure that international human rights, labour rights and environmental standards are respected in developing countries.
we must take radical measures and make the import of products made in these countries subject to the same basic health, safety and environmental standards that we apply to products made within our borders.
i would like to add to the data provided, mr president, the following: mercosur is the world's largest producer of food and it has the world's largest energy reserves.
in an environment of increasing economic interdependence and global challenges that transcend national borders, political determination and a willingness to compromise are indispensable, as has been said in this house, to face the difficulties we may encounter in our negotiations and to reach an agreement that is beneficial to all.
the report deals with the trade agreement initially established between the two parties in 2006 to continue exporting the energy resources available to the country.
concluded for a period of 10 years (renewable), its aim is to build a solid basis for strengthening ties between iraq and the eu.
this resolution contains several points which i clearly share, such as improving its efficiency, steering it towards the ecological transformation of the european economy, but ultimately argues that decision-making on public resources should be based on market criteria such as competition.
this improvement in information may allow consideration of the social, political and environmental conditions in which a good has been produced.
it is a useful lever for strengthening health security and the protection of social rights and the environment.
the commission and the council must understand that the way out of the crisis also requires strengthening rights and combating social, environmental and health dumping.
the resolution adopted represents a trade agreement which would bring to the european market a large number of goods, mostly from the agricultural sector, produced under conditions of environmental and social dumping.
the proposed trade agreement would increase the import of raw materials and thus increase the associated environmental conflicts.
the aim must be sustainable growth, job creation and addressing the problems of our society.
recent cases such as those just mentioned, in genk, arcelor mittal in liège, or the spanish steel company in asturias, are facing very serious problems, but we are still leaders and must continue to be so in automotive policy, with specific plans, as you said, in aeronautics, chemicals and pharmaceuticals, since a lot of investment is needed in r & d & i. priority measures must be set; urgent measures for recovery and sustainability, from the regions to the states and to europe, and from europe to the states and to the regions; more governance and more coordination, not national solutions that only weaken us, fragment us.
we therefore ask you for rules of operation for the single market, taking into account the entire value chain, raw materials and after-sales services, cross-cutting measures, specifying the energy model and, above all, very specific measures: as regards access to credit, what will happen to horizon 2020?
the spanish government, a black flag in its current opacity with social agents, does not want to know anything about black coal, paints in black the panorama of the energy mix, increasingly dependent, and paints in black the future of the mining basins.
it is up to us to put an end to the suicidal policy of empty seas and oceans without reason or sense, and to begin to work seriously and responsibly in favour of a necessary activity which, precisely for this reason, must be sustainable.
and instead we should support those vessels that fish with very low impact, that fish selectively, that are less harmful to the environment, that are more responsible, and that are more socially and environmentally sensitive.
for more than a year, we have been working with the whole sector, with the large operators, with the small operators, with the environmental organisations, with the institutions, with the communities, with the council.
it is not about fish defenders or defenders of businesses, but about ensuring that everyone can continue to fish in the future in a sustainable way and guaranteeing food security for all citizens.
it called for fish stocks to be brought up to sustainable exploitation levels, proposed extending multinational fishing plans to all fish stocks in the european union, and banned the odious practice of discards.
the reform we have negotiated so far is intended to be particularly focused on the environmental aspect.
but i do recognise that the proposed reform is a responsible, sustainable and competitive reform; that the rapporteur in her report has strengthened the socioeconomic dimension in the area of sustainability; that the fishing fleet and small-scale aquaculture are also being strengthened; that the problems of maximum sustainable yield are being tackled even better, and that good progress is being made in the area of discards.
we also have social sustainability, because we will have positive measures.
with sustainability of the stocks by 2022 we can have 30% more jobs and 25% additional income for our fisheries.
we must return to them in other areas, because we are supporting european citizens who live off traditional crops and preserve european cultures associated with them, a natural environment which must be protected and of which they are part, population centres which are much more than production units, which are a historical and ethnographic heritage which we cannot allow to disappear.
another point is that we must achieve a budgetary balance that ensures the sustainability of public finances and our welfare system.
member states should adopt all necessary structural reforms, including: reform of labour taxation, which incentivises employment; promote and support self-employment and start-ups; improve the business environment; facilitate access to finance for smes; regularise informal and undeclared work in employment; reform labour markets to make them more flexible, dynamic and inclusive; and modernise wage-setting systems to match productivity developments; and exploit the high employment potential of sectors such as the green economy, health and social care and ict to create jobs.
it is a coordination tool to help us reach a number of policy goals, in particular the five headline targets set in the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
environment, telecommunications and transport ministers have already addressed the semester in their december meetings.
their debates point to the need for a better integration of environmental and climate policies into economic decision-making, a strengthening of both the implementation and enforcement of the digital agenda and a willingness to exploit fully the various synergies between telecommunications, transport and energy.
the epsco, education, energy and competitiveness councils will debate the european semester in february.
we can reverse it provided that we continue along the path of reform; not reform for its own sake, but reform for the sake of sustainable growth and job creation.
we need to support public investment, as we have done with the eib capital increase, and we need to design smart regulation which achieves societal and environmental objectives without hampering job creation and competitiveness.
so we need to pass this test and together get europe back on track for sustainable growth and job creation.
the modernisation of social protection systems should ensure their effectiveness, adequacy and sustainability.
it is in this spirit that we want to create a better ecosystem for initiative and employment, for consumers and for businesses, with the single market act i and ii.
this report will analyse the main remaining barriers to integration in the member states and we will look in particular at cross-border issues in four key areas with the greatest growth potential: services, networks (energy and transport) and the digital economy.
the european parliament must ensure and monitor that this is done, creating the environment of trust mentioned above, which is so necessary to overcome the crisis.
in view of the still persistent deficits and high debt levels, continued fiscal consolidation programmes are necessary to ensure the sustainability of public finances, but must be carried out in a differentiated, proportionate and growth-friendly manner.
this is an intangible cultural heritage which is based on the preservation of the natural environment, on the protection of animals, and which must be able to coexist with those harsh measures which we should even increase in the case of those who are hunting bears in russia and establishing an illegal market, or animals in africa, and who are destroying the system we have inherited from our ancestors.
mr president, when we talk about climate change, we always find that human action is one of the causes.
because there are other legitimate interests which must also be respected by companies: workers, territories, the environment, human rights... it is therefore an idea which we in the committee on employment are very deeply committed to.
i therefore welcome mr baldassarre's initiative to contribute to the development of a social market economy by combating the irresponsibility of companies towards society, the environment and workers, and thus guaranteeing jobs and facilitating economic recovery.
mr president, when we vote on this report, we must do so with the honesty of recognizing that noise pollution policies remain the unfinished business of european union policies.
we are talking about noise pollution and not gas emissions; therefore, i ask for rigor, seriousness and for it to be approved.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we want a more sustainable sector, but we do not yet have a european map that precisely identifies where there is over-fishing and over-capacity.
it would also help us to achieve maximum sustainable yield within a set timeframe that we share.
the amendments voted on excluded fleets and professionals using sustainable fishing gear and techniques such as 'hunting' or 'live bait', which favour the quality of fresh and processed product.
on the contrary, the cfp should take account of the complex and diverse reality of fisheries in the eu and define, in addition to environmental objectives, a clear support for the socioeconomic dimension of the cfp.
i have supported the european parliament's position, however, because it improves on the commission's position in its desire to ensure the livelihood of the marine environment through sustainable fishing.
it opposes transferable fishing concessions and proposes a gradual ban on discards, the promotion of maximum sustainable yield and the need for long-term planning to restore fish stocks by 2020.
in writing.
parliament has finally voted today in favour of a sustainable eu fisheries policy.
in particular, parliament has backed plans to require sustainable fishing levels from 2015 onwards, to allow fish stocks to be restored to abundant levels by 2020. the key is that more fish in the sea means more profitable fishing for fishermen, so this will benefit both the environment and the sector.
the commission has also voted to put an end to the nonsense of mass waste, stressing that the priority is to promote more selective arts.
the greens also welcome the fact that parliament has supported our proposal to make fishing rights conditional on the guarantee of better social and environmental practices, with a view to rewarding the more sustainable artisanal fishing sector.
without prejudice to progress on environmental aspects, it is necessary to take account of economic, environmental and social aspects in an equitable manner.
for this reason, it is not appropriate to reserve the structural funds exclusively for environmental protection policies and actions, in order to ensure the development and maintenance of the fisheries and aquaculture sector.
i voted against amendment no 233, although i am obviously against the needless suffering of marine life, and i express this by voting in favour of the amendments calling for responsible fishing and dealing with the techniques least harmful to the marine environment and its fauna, as demonstrated by the vote on amendment no 234.
in writing.
i have therefore supported this proposal which contains measures aimed at protecting public health as well as the environment.
this vote may be a victory for the noisy car industry, with the din of its intense lobby still echoing around parliament, but it is clearly a loss for public health and the environment.
despite clear evidence on the negative impact of noise pollution on public health, a majority of meps backed proposals for weaker noise limit values.
by voting to put the interests of noisy carmakers and drivers ahead of public health and the environment, centre-right meps have made a mockery of their role as supposed representatives of european citizens.
we call on eu governments to put public health first, when environment ministers consider the draft legislation.
while most member states have had to take far-reaching measures to bring down debt levels and decrease budget deficits in order to bring public finances back onto a sustainable path, some countries have been affected to the extent that they have had recourse to the financial support mechanisms of the eu.
technical conservation measures are rules, which our fishermen throughout the european union must follow on a daily basis when undertaking a fishing expedition in order to ensure that however and wherever fishing activity is carried out, it is done so in a sustainable manner.
the measures relate to minimum landing sizes, minimum net mesh sizes, zones and closed seasons, limiting by-catch, the criteria to use more selective fishing gears and measures designed to protect the marine environment and have thus a considerable impact in achieving the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp).
whilst the eu has consistently condemned pkk terrorism, it is clear that the wider kurdish issue can only be addressed through a peaceful, comprehensive and sustainable solution.
it is a conflict which has claimed far too many victims over the course of three decades and which has created a climate of instability and profound mistrust.
as the full realisation of human rights is important for achieving sustainable development, the eu is pleased that the ‘mainstreaming panel’ of the human rights council will this year discuss the integration of human rights into the post-2015 global development agenda which the eu will advocate in line with the corresponding commitment in the human rights action plan.
i also believe that this way of doing business must be a sign of european identity and a commercial asset in an environment where the installation of values such as those we need in economic activity requires the involvement of entrepreneurs, workers, consumers and public authorities.
our group succeeded in convincing the epp rapporteur to explicitly call on the commission to propose a legislative proposal on the transparency of the social and environmental information provided by companies.
− corporate social responsibility (csr) is a concept whereby companies integrate social and environmental concerns in their business operations and in their interaction with their stakeholders in a voluntary basis, and can bring benefits both for enterprises and society.
we must take greater account of social and environmental considerations, and the lowest price may no longer be used as an award criterion.
- while the report expresses concern about the precariousness of the world of work, the violation of trade union rights, the increase in human rights violations and the destruction of the environment, concerns which i share, i could not vote in favour of the report, since it does not propose any binding measures for companies to fulfil their social responsibility.
the socialist rapporteur, mr howitt, supports the commission's proposal in its communication 'a new eu strategy 2011-2014 on corporate social responsibility' and considers that it is more appropriate to promote voluntary cooperation between companies, trade unions, non-governmental organisations and international institutions than to apply rules which require companies to apply codes of conduct on social, labour and environmental matters which exist as principles but are not usually translated into practice.
for example, between june 2008 and december 2009, an estimated eur 5 billion was lost as a result of vat fraud in greenhouse gas emission allowances.
the most vulnerable populations continue to be the first victims of environmental degradation.
we must learn from the past and use the tools of european coordination to finally move in the right direction: that of a europe that protects jobs, strengthens social rights and tackles environmental challenges!
an endless policy of economic austerity created the general impoverishment of the populations, the evaporation of the investments necessary for the ecological transition, and killed any hope of returning to prosperity.
i voted against amendment no 19 because, although i share the need for structural and long-term changes in the economy towards sustainability, the language of the amendment seems to me excessively programmatic and radical.
for instance: implement fiscal consolidation programmes, in order to guarantee the sustainability of public finances, in a proportionate and differentiated growth-friendly way allowing for investments to achieve the eu2020 strategy and making full use of the flexibility that the stability and growth pact provides for.
revise its fiscal multipliers to avoid systematic underestimation of the effect of fiscal consolidation on growth and job creation in a recessionary context; revise the rhythm of consolidation in order to differentiate across countries according to their fiscal space to avoid potential negative growth and employment effects, whilst guaranteeing debt sustainability; ensure coherence between the different priorities in its policy guidance, so fiscal consolidation does not compromise sustainable growth and job creation potential, increase poverty and social exclusion, or prevent the provision of public services of quality.
europe needs to take active actions in order to increase inclusive growth and opportunities, to reinforce its innovation capacity and knowledge based industry, to expand infrastructure investment and networks and to strengthen social, welfare and environmental policies.
sombath somphone is widely appreciated and well known for his extensive work in the fields of sustainable and fair development and access to land.
i appeal to the government of laos and the other asean member states to underline publicly the legality and the legitimacy of the work for sustainable development and social justice in order to counter intimidation efforts and the forced disappearances of activists.
the only objection is that we need to coordinate more closely the development of infrastructure of common interest between member states in order to put an end once and for all to the bottlenecks which are the basis for the survival of the energy islands to which the commissioner referred.
mr president, connecting europe would be a solution to the major problems which make it difficult to implement an energy policy for the european union.
there are major bottlenecks which make it impossible to establish an energy model for europe and therefore an industrial policy for europe, for growth and employment.
it would be much more effective to establish credit elements through investment bonds as a way of modernising infrastructure and trying to ensure that the energy system is sustainable across europe.
this is the case for aid for renewable energy or fossil fuels, which are subject to fluctuations that hinder investment and create confusion among firms.
on the other hand, it is urgent to make citizens aware of the need to save energy, and in this sense the wasteful examples we see in the lighting of many cities, in the unjustified lighting of sports or musical shows late at night, in the fashion of drinking in the street in the european winter or in the multiplication of superfluous messages through the networks are unacceptable.
it points out that a decarbonisation of our energy system is not only possible but necessary for the sustainability of the european economy.
and, in addition to positioning the european union at the forefront of clean energy, it is a vital step towards achieving our climate change objectives.
as has been pointed out, the transformation of the market would not only create new jobs but also reduce the price of energy for consumers and our dependence on the outside world.
the european parliament should make clear its commitment to the objectives of combating climate change and, to this end, set binding targets in the report.
we should also urge the commission to define the most desirable scenario for achieving the objectives of sustainability, energy security and competitiveness, which are so necessary for the development of a common energy policy.
i believe, however, that in other areas of life - transport, food regulations - we are right to have european standards which serve the citizen, and that nuclear energy also needs a european safety framework and strict material requirements at european level.
the rest of the agenda; we have an opportunity to discuss these energy issues with the european council on 22 may.
so despite the positive results, we must not forget that nuclear energy can still carry risks.
- i did not vote in favour of this report because, despite proposing some environmental improvements in the area of energy transport, it maintains a transeuropean approach to the distribution of energy resources and not a decentralisation of energy production.
the report supports the integration of decentralised renewable energy sources while proposing the construction of oil pipelines for the terrestrial transport of oil to energy producing areas.
the report stresses the importance of the transeuropean energy network projects complying with the different environmental regulations of the union, but despite these positive points, it calls for greater powers for the commission for the implementation of the common cross-border market dominated by large companies in the sector.
finally it would have been imperative to ensure recognition of the distribution level electricity infrastructure, including smart grids and further references to energy efficiency and renewable energy projects.
identifying the trans-european priority corridors, covering electricity and gas networks as well as carbon dioxide infrastructure are key issues in meeting the eu energy policy objectives.
in particular, the north-south electricity interconnections in western europe (‘nsi west electricity’), which means interconnections between member states in the region and with the mediterranean area including the iberian peninsula, will help to integrate electricity from renewable energy sources and reinforce grid infrastructures to foster market integration in the region.
the extension of vienna airport has been a violation of the environmental impact assessment directive, which has been reported by many inhabitants of the city to the european ombudsman.
the environmental impact assessment (eia) of this extension was carried out by the federal ministry of transport, innovation and technology, the same institution that approved the project, constituting a clear case of conflict of interest that completely nullifies the validity of this study.
- i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to improve coordination between member states in accounting for carbon sequestration from different land uses.
the report seeks to adapt the agreements reached on 'land use, land use change and forestry' (lulucf sector) at the un climate change summits in a coherent way by the member states of the union.
the report recognises the need to take account of the positive balance of carbon sequestration and sustainable use of forests.
the report also addresses important issues such as citizen participation in the development, modification and review of national lulucf action plans and consideration of the use of agricultural subsidies to encourage the adoption of carbon sequestration measures by the primary sector.
it does make accounting for forest management accounting mandatory (80 % of the sector’s emissions), and introduces a staged approach to cropland and grazing-land management (about 17 % of the sector).
- i voted in favour of this report because it proposes a step forward in achieving the objectives imposed on climate change adaptation and mitigation.
the report introduces specifications on the control of greenhouse gas emissions through the european earth monitoring programme (gmes) and also includes the need to account for emissions from the shipping sector.
the report is positive in introducing new obligations in the monitoring of member states' low-carbon development strategies, such as the review of these strategies at least every five years.
it is a report in favour of greater and stricter control of member states' greenhouse gas emissions and therefore a tool to improve the ability to set concrete targets for emission reductions.
regarding the outcome, the regulation introduces an obligation for member states to prepare low carbon development plans, in line with a cost-effective pathway to 2050 target of 80-95% reductions compared to 1990 levels, giving due consideration to intermediary stages.
regarding maritime emissions, parliament agreed to a commission statement whereby the commission undertakes to adopt a new initiative on monitoring, reporting and verification of shipping emissions during the first half of 2013. on reporting: regarding international climate finance, after arduous negotiations, parliament maintained annual reporting on climate finance provided by the member states for adaptation, mitigation and technology transfer, and where possible, regarding whether such finance is new and additional.
among the new elements mentioned are cooperation in strengthening civil society and its responsibility in all areas, the inclusion of the overseas countries and territories (octs) in the european union's horizontal and environmental programmes, the inclusion of the objective of improving labour and trade union rights, and the recognition of public investment as the only way to improve living conditions in both the octs and europe, etc.
today the european parliament has shown its progressive face by welcoming the commission's proposal and going further, in particular by focusing on sustainable management of natural resources, the promotion of renewable energy, investment in employment and a relentless fight against tax havens.
the absolute priority of this new association must be the ecological transition, in the name of a social and solidarity-based economy for territories which often suffer from a high economic dependence on their neighbouring states.
- i voted in favour of this report because i consider it an important amendment to facilitate the participation of the various european actors in the field of the union's environmental policies.
the report mainly proposes legislative changes to simplify procedures and administrative burdens in order to make european environmental regulations effective.
the report notes that much of the unnecessary administrative costs linked to environmental legislation are due to inadequate or inefficient public and private administrative practices in various member states and in their regional or local authorities.
the report regrets that the procedure for a directive on public access to justice in environmental matters has been halted at first reading and calls on the co-legislators to reconsider their positions with a view to breaking the deadlock.
it also notes the frequent concerns of petitioners in several areas of environmental policy, such as landfill and waste disposal, wildlife habitats and air and water quality, and applauds their efforts to bring authority to account.
underlining the crucial importance of effective inspections, the report urges the member states to step up their inspection capacities, calls for common minimum criteria for inspections and urges the commission to set up an environmental law inspection unit.
it also reflects the economic dimension of soil fertility and biodiversity.
it is also a tool to combat climate change.
however, i agree with the principle of equivalence between certain agri-environmental practices and the three proposed greening measures under three conditions: if the alternative measures are equally effective and more relevant locally, if the system remains simple to apply and simple to control and if all farmers or, in any case, all agricultural areas in the european union are involved.
in order to use taxpayers' money effectively, it seems to me important that greening measures should be the basis for the second pillar agri-environmental measures and that 7% of the ecological focus areas should also act as stabilizers of agricultural ecosystems, which is synonymous with productivity and long-term competitiveness.
we must inform the citizens about the use of community money if we want the common agricultural policy to be a genuine, strong and sustainable partnership between europe, the european taxpayer and agriculture.
i shall be attentive to the discussions we will have today, with the aim of moving in a balanced way in three directions: supporting competitive agricultural production, sustainable agricultural production and agricultural production for the employment and development of our territories.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the cap is not only a good thing for the environment but also a good thing for the environment.
it is essential that our producers can comply with these measures; there is no greater danger to the environment than an abandoned rural environment.
let us remember that this is a mandate, that there is a long way to go to negotiate with the council and that we are playing with the future of millions of people living in our rural environment.
agriculture, in addition to producing food, has a social, environmental and territorial function.
they stress the need for more methodological work on environmental externalities and social inequalities, as well as on research and development.
they also promote regional accounts with a common nomenclature for cohesion policies, the analysis of economic interdependencies and compliance with the budgetary framework directive, address the treatment of contingent liabilities and insist on coordination of pension sustainability.
the next item is the report by mrs åsa westlund, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the protection of public health against endocrine disruptors (2012/2066 (ini)) (a7-0027/2013).
and that said, once we have the efsa reports and the joint research centre reports, we must be ruthless and absolutely rigorous with substances that can affect health and the environment.
mr president, i think it is fair to begin by highlighting the efforts of some member states to ensure the sustainability of their public accounts by undertaking the reforms necessary to achieve those objectives.
they're settling the sustainability of their public accounts.
the building of deep and sustainable democracy is a long process.
we have stressed the importance of ensuring a favourable environment for civil society and encouraged the adoption of a new ngo law that ensures ngo transparency while respecting the independence of civil society from government control, that eliminates burdensome registration procedures, and does not subject ngo activities to prior government approval on the basis of their alleged ‘usefulness to society’, and that does not limit or demonise ngo funding.
we raised our concerns on human rights, on the need to build a political consensus and the establishment of a better business environment.
we must identify common ground between europe 2020 and china’s 12th five year plan, for example on renewable energy, clean vehicles and information technology.
with our know-how, we want to contribute to greener cities in china and share our experience on issues like emissions reduction, water security and rural development.
we also need to respond to global challenges such as climate change, energy security, development aid, the fight against pandemics, organised crime or piracy - china is already helping on this front.
the report proposes changes to the european system of national and regional accounts including what i consider to be a fundamental aspect: the quantification of environmental aspects in the statistical data of the member states and regions.
this improvement in the quantification of these environmental aspects may allow for an improvement in the definition of environmental policy objectives in the member states.
- i voted against this decision because it represents a missed opportunity to transform the common agricultural policy into a useful tool for improving the situation of the majority of european farmers and the environmental services they provide.
meps have today voted for the cap to plough ahead unsustainably, with an outcome that is even worse for the environment than, and just as unfair as, the current model.
huge farming businesses which do not need the funding will continue to get big pay-cheques, whilst depriving other areas of the cap from funding, notably for schemes that could be used to promote more sustainable farming.
despite some positive outcomes in the agri committee, such as the definition of advanced systems and methods of sustainable production, improvement of children’s eating habits through fruit and vegetable and school milk schemes, and precautionary measures improving bee health, the text is pretty bad overall and dominated by the interests of big agro-industrial concerns.
this is a report that deals with the many aspects of this policy, from environmental aspects to programmes for young farmers, but most of these programmes have been designed to have little or no effect on the european countryside.
proposals adding rules based on the water framework directive, which would improve the environmental performance of agriculture, also fell, although the final vote did reinstate rules on longstanding environmental cross-compliance.
- i voted against this report because it keeps nuclear energy within the energy strategy for 2050. the energy strategy contains very ambitious targets for emissions reduction by 2050, with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80%-95% from 1990 levels.
from this point of view, the targets seem ambitious, but the report argues that nuclear energy should be one of the main sectors responsible for this decline in emissions.
the report proposes to replace conventional energy production with nuclear, increasing the risk to the population.
§76 - 2rcv: which must be in line with the scientific finding and the sustainability of the same.
our group has been firmly opposed to the use of this type of energy for years, but this report improves the safety conditions to which the plants currently in operation must respond.
the result of these stress tests should be used to force the plants to implement improved safety measures, increasing the cost of production of this type of energy to show the national energy systems the true economic cost of its use.
nuclear energy, the source of unfortunate disasters such as the one that occurred in fukushima, must be the subject of a social debate on the energy model we aspire to as a society.
the resolution contains aspects related to the ecological conditions of production of the material to allow this type of production to be sustainable.
mr president, the emissions market is one of the most important instruments of the european union's energy and climate policy.
in the short term, therefore, the withdrawal from the rights market proposed by the european commission is necessary, although i believe that a general reform of this market must be launched, as has also been advocated in the committee on industry, research and energy.
the alternative, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, would be to reinstate 27 energy and 27 climate policies.
this is what the european union, norway, the faroe islands and iceland have been doing with regard to mackerel in the north-east atlantic, and what has happened since 2010 - as mr gallagher has clearly explained - is that the faroe islands have increased their catches fivefold since 2006 and iceland has increased its catches by 23. overall, the sustainability of these resources is being undermined without regard to existing fishing patterns, the rights and interests of other countries and the european union.
the sustainability of fisheries in mauritius is excluded from the agreement, which argues that the indian ocean does not need to be protected, a point that should be open to question.
mr president, i have opposed what i consider to be a seizure of co2 emission rights because that measure not only helps to reduce carbon emissions but, on a global level, is counterproductive.
this would be a new punishment for productive sectors that need a predictable and transparent framework, that cannot bear an artificial increase in costs that will generate more unemployment, that are willing to provide more solutions, innovation and creativity - as they have done so far to reduce these emissions - and that, moreover, compete in a global market.
and we will buy products made with state subsidies that here would be illegal and under social and environmental standards that have nothing to do with ours.
- i voted against this report because we reject the emissions trading system in plenary.
the report tries to set a timetable for reforming the system, but this system is a failed system, the current reduction in emissions is due to the decline in consumption that is being caused by the crisis, it is not due to this emissions system.
− an irresponsible and unholy alliance of meps has today voted to allow the rot in the eu’s emissions trading scheme to continue.
rejecting the proposal will undoubtedly further undermine the already weak carbon market and push the entire scheme to the precipice.
the two-faced arguments of the centre-right meps about how the eu carbon market should be left to sort itself out are cynical in the extreme.
it is precisely because of centre-right politicians in europe that the emissions trading scheme was established as a flawed market, with various loopholes, which have led to the situation we are in today.
by opposing necessary steps to fix these problems they have caused, they are effectively signalling their desire to destroy the eu’s flagship climate change policy.
− the economic crisis and the decrease in industrial activity within the eu are entailing an oversupply of emission allowances in the eu emissions trading system (ets), and thus the price of co2 emissions has decreased considerably.
- i voted against this report because it is a proposal which allows airlines to pay more economically for the pollution they produce.
although i am against the emissions trading scheme, the proposal in this report is outrageous, because it means maintaining legal uncertainty to allow many airlines not to pay their emission allowances.
air traffic is an activity that produces a significant level of co2 emissions, having a direct impact on global warming worldwide.
freezing the inclusion of non-intra eu flights in the eu’s emissions trading scheme is a retrograde move, which will let the aviation sector off the hook for its growing emissions and do precious little to improve chances of international action.
these proposals will mean that flights accounting for a large proportion of the emissions from international aviation will be excluded from the scheme at this fledgling stage.
this is in spite of growing emissions from the sector, which are undermining the efforts of other sectors to combat climate change, and the lack of any alternative for tackling aviation emissions.
i think it is important that parliament should be seeking to reduce the cost of loans and the risk involved in loans for transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure projects.
in the same vein, it should be ensured that eu trade with third countries, especially developing countries, is inclusive, sustainable and promotes social cohesion.
or to cover other topics not (or hardly) dealt with by the rapporteur, such as: the problems raised for developing countries by economic partnership agreements in terms of fiscal revenue losses and regional integration; difficulties for some developing countries in compensating the decline in trade taxes resulting from trade liberalisation; investment agreements, reflecting growing discontent raised by the investor-state dispute settlement; public procurement: the reciprocity principle can be extremely harmful for developing countries (reassertion of the right to regulate investment); aid for trade should be geared towards the objectives of diversification of production, regional integration, technology transfers, building-up of domestic productive capacity, and reducing income inequality; tax havens (an international convention on the model of automatic exchange of information shall include sanctions for non-cooperative jurisdictions and for financial institutions that operate with tax havens); conflict minerals/resources and sustainable mining; export taxation (the eu’s attempt to ban or curb the use of export taxes goes against pcd); corporate social responsibility: the need to establish a clear international legal framework regarding the responsibilities and obligations of business in relation to human rights, etc.
this economic weakness was driven by declining private consumption and faltering investment, in an environment of weak business and consumer confidence and financial market tensions.
in 2012, headline hicp inflation in the euro area was 2.5%, reflecting elevated energy prices and increases in indirect taxes and administered prices.
with the current low growth and high unemployment in europe, it is evident and essential that we intensify our joint work to create foundations for sustainable growth and job creation.
without growth, there is no price stability that is sustainable in the long term; without growth, there is no financial stability that is sustainable in the long term.
there cannot be growth or equity that is sustainable in the long term through debt creation, so fiscal consolidation remains unavoidable.
i see that eliminating errors, cutting waste and improving the efficiency with which eu funds are used are a common concern.
this has been the understanding since it was outlined in march 2003 in the commission's communication on a wider europe, and the step we are taking today is part of that political action, moving forward in the mutual commitment to the common values: democracy, human rights, human rights reitero, the rule of law, good governance and the principles of market economy and sustainable development.
− i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in 2011. this report states that the management of the agency has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules.
i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in the use of its funds.
− i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european environment agency in 2011. this report states that the management of the agency has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules.
i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the european environment agency in the use of its funds.
furthermore, the text insists that, in the current climate of austerity, long-term investments such as parliament’s building projects need to be handled prudently and transparently; it insists on strict cost management, project planning and supervision; it reiterates its call for a transparent decision-making process in the field of buildings policy based on early information; it recalls parliament’s request in its resolution of 16 february 2012 on the guidelines for the 2013 budget procedure for precise information on the progress of buildings projects and for its financial implication to be provided every six months, and parliament’s statement that no new unforeseen building projects should be undertaken until the end of the current legislature.
− i voted in favour of this report as it is a good source of information on the management and role of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy in 2011. this report states that the management of this joint undertaking has been carried out in a regular manner and in accordance with the existing rules.
i consider this report to be a step forward in presenting in a critical and truthful way the role of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy.
i hope that the overall positive environment i referred to at the beginning will be transformed into an opportunity for the benefit of both the greek cypriot community and the turkish cypriot community.
a settlement will also contribute significantly to the business environment and unleash the full economic potential of the island, including in the area of energy.
i am glad that mrs oomen-ruijten's report supports the opening of new negotiating chapters, such as chapter 15 on energy.
i believe that cooperation between turkey and the union in the field of energy is very relevant.
europeans need to diversify our sources of supply and also the routes through which energy is supplied.
it is now important to connect the points to which we refer, create momentum in this important engagement, put the accession negotiations back on track and make this process sustainable.
the multiannual plans are an essential tool for the conservation of marine fisheries resources, and they embody all the new requirements that the reform of this policy introduces, such as regionalisation, the achievement of maximum sustainable yields, the elimination of discards and the incorporation of technical measures appropriate to the fisheries covered by the plan.
they are very useful tools for preserving fish stocks, especially small-scale coastal artisanal fishing, and for curbing the overexploitation of species and the marine environment, currently estimated at 80% at or above the maximum sustainable yield.
it is therefore essential that the irish presidency puts more pressure on the 27 member states so that this situation, which is so damaging to the fisheries sector, is not maintained and the sustainability of the sector can be ensured.
we can be satisfied that the issues which have interested the citizens are issues of high social content and concern quality of life, the environment, education, traffic, research, rights, and we are therefore satisfied.
currently, most eu ships are sent to south-east asia at the end of their lives, where they are beached, with their hazardous materials leaking into the environment and causing unacceptable conditions for human health and the environment.
this is an opprobrious practise, which circumvents eu rules under which the export of hazardous waste to non-oecd countries is outlawed.
we tabled the following 12 amendments at committee level: (6) croatia is not on track, but only largely on track to meet outstanding requirements; (10) need to involve parliament and civil society in monitoring exercise; (18) public administration needs to be professional, accountable, independent and impartial; (22) not ‘with satisfaction’ regarding the fight against corruption, but ‘generally satisfied’ and need to further step up fight against corruption; (32) lgbt rights, socially but also health system, pride; (33) croatian administration not fully prepared for eu funds, need to strengthen capacities; (39) need transparency regarding environmental assessments of large scale investments projects; give priority to environment in spatial planning; (40) concerns about proposed law on strategic investments and european social and environmental standards; (41) appeal to eu ms not to restrict free movement of persons after accession/transitional measures; (43) war crimes: need to swiftly address com recommendations; concerns about law on invalidation; (56) bilateral disputes, enlargement process and arbitration mechanism; (61) com needs to evaluate and assess involvement and role of civil society in enlargement process.
(5) some instead of significant progress (17) need to involve citizens and civil society in eu accession negotiations (24) ensure political independence of the constitutional court (32) civil society and working groups preparing accession negotiations (46) lawsuits by wife of pm đukanović against two newspapers linked to privatisation of telekom (81) transparency needed regarding construction of new energy sources (82) balance between economic development and environmental protection, link to tourism and spatial planning.
in the end, the aim of this report - and i think the commissioner has put it very well - is to discuss in a broad way the major problems and the major limitations of the development of renewable energies at the moment, especially in those dimensions which are more pan-european.
i would like to say - and we must not forget the purpose of this report - that we are talking about one of the aspects that must be considered in an energy policy.
so until the commission proposes a direction, a direction, for what it proposes to be climate change policy and energy policy from the year 2020, that is, the road to the year 2030, it does not really make much sense for us to set specifically new targets, higher targets than there are right now.
because we have to look at the whole of the interaction between the different dimensions that are affecting energy policy and climate change policy and, among other things, the issues that have to do with the development, for example, of the emissions market, for which we are also waiting for a proposal for revised structural measures from the commission.
mr turmes, could you tell me exactly where the spanish government has announced that it is going to develop new nuclear power stations or where exactly it has said that renewable energies must be reduced?
it is no longer just an environmental requirement, but also a step towards security of supply and competitiveness.
if our current target of 20% by 2020 is to be even exceeded without the need for changes in the current energy model, it seems clear that our targets must be more ambitious.
as rapporteur for the horizon 2020 framework programme, i can assure you that we are working to make research into renewable energy innovation one of the pillars of the new programme, because we also know that technological advances in this area will allow us to create jobs, increase competitiveness and maintain european industrial leadership.
this strengthens the environmental security of our european neighbours in the north sea, the atlantic, the mediterranean and the black sea, but it also gives us another authority for negotiations with the usa and asia.
we have a financial arrangement for environmental liability.
we have already made environmental considerations mandatory when we approved the project.
all in all, this is a major step forward for nature, the environment and the safety of workers at sea.
we are in europe in a situation of extraordinary energy dependence, in some countries certainly much more than in others.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to stress one specific point which, at the request of my group, has been included in the final agreement: the obligation to comply with the requirements of the directive on the assessment of the effects of plans and programmes on the environment prior to the government's authorization.
and it is important because the selection of the drilling sequence, the number of drilling holes, their location and their characteristics are not harmless from the point of view of the environmental effects they may produce and therefore should not be the subject of a unilateral decision by the operator.
i was pleased to hear the commissioner speak because i was surprised at the determination of some to try to prevent any activity by member states, which are also under close scrutiny, without taking into account that third countries may be carrying out the same work in the same environment and with different security measures.
the european council will also be discussing energy policy tomorrow.
i see this as a clear sign that the europeanisation of energy policy is supported in principle by the heads of state or government.
i would like to say in general terms that in the past, energy was not a factor in european households.
we will have eur 17 billion in the next multiannual financial framework, available from the cohesion funds, for energy efficiency, for the renovation of buildings with the aim of saving energy.
we will have 5 billion euros for infrastructure, and we will have 6 to 7 billion euros for energy research.
this means that energy will play a far greater role in the next financial framework than ever before at european level.
one issue has been brought to the fore today: energy prices.
we have to decide in europe: how much money can we pay for energy?
we must decide the question: do we want to have industrial value added in europe where industry is energy intensive?
in the raw materials industry - steel, copper, aluminium, carbon, ceramics, paper, chlorine, chemicals, industrial textiles - in all these sectors the issue of energy costs is now more important than labour costs.
that is why we need affordable energy in the global competition.
in the past, we have priced energy.
we have made energy expensive for two reasons: first, to solve our budgetary problems.
taxes, levies and contributions on energy have been a revenue factor for our state budgets.
and the second reason was energy efficiency -- which is expensive, so you're going to conserve it.
i think the peak of energy pricing is behind us.
the basic decision facing us all is whether we want to make energy more expensive or whether we want to make it cheaper for industrial jobs and for social reasons.
i believe that this is where the competition for the preservation of industrial value added has started and energy has become a key factor, which is why i am grateful that the european council will be dealing with this tomorrow and will give mr barroso a good preparation for comparing energy prices on a global scale.
i sense, from the various interventions this morning, that we share many of the same objectives regarding the future development of europe’s energy policy, as well as on the need to address a wide-range of taxation issues, most notably tackling tax fraud and evasion.
turning to energy, there has been a very good debate today here also.
his points in relation to the field of energy are equally well made.
the importance of energy policy to jobs and growth has been emphasised by almost all members, and the direct effects of rising prices on consumers and households have been very clearly and emphatically spelled out.
the debate has highlighted the fact that sustainability, competitiveness and security of supply are absolutely essential and are also interlinked.
indeed, the informal meeting in dublin in april, bringing together eu environment and energy ministers, agreed that developing a climate and energy framework, and maintaining eu competitiveness, are complimentary goals and should be pursued as such.
tomorrow’s discussion at the european council will be a very important one in guiding the balance in a policy area with very clear and direct impacts on consumers, the environment and our economy, as well as jobs and growth.
the report highlights that the sustainable regeneration of old industrialised regions is very costly and therefore european funding needs to play an important role in possible future attempts to reconvert old industrialised regions.
the safety of these activities is of particular concern to the mep, who recently asked the european commission about the compliance of the mediterranean sea authorisations with the agreements signed through the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea (oj l 4, 9.1.2013, p. 13) and with the provisions contained in directive 2008/56/ec, which establishes the framework for community action on marine environment policy.
mr president, i have supported this report on renewable energy because it contains important suggestions for improving our current regulation.
finally, i believe that a stronger commitment must be made to decentralized generation with renewable energy, self-consumption and storage, which are very important in promoting a fundamental change in the electricity sector.
ensure supply, promote more responsible efficiency and consumption cultures and make their effects on co2 emissions more visible.
- i voted against this report because it represents a new missed opportunity to bring about a real change in the energy policy of the member states.
the report, although it contains a number of measures of interest which could lead to an improvement in the energy system, does not set specific objectives which would oblige the member states to implement a genuine energy conversion strategy.
despite all its support for renewable energy, the report continues to consider biofuels as a renewable energy source, without taking into account the very serious food and environmental consequences of their mass cultivation.
while today's vote sends a mixed message on eu renewable energy policy, meps have given strong backing to national support schemes for renewables and called for a binding 2030 eu target.
however, given the moves by energy commissioner oettinger to undermine renewables and prevent the commission from pushing for an ambitious target, we regret the failure by a majority of meps to explicitly vote for a nominal target of 40-45 % by 2030. this is an unfortunate dilution of the political signal that parliament is sending on renewables.
- i voted in favour of the resolution because it contains positive elements on the need to preserve and develop national systems of support for renewable energy, as well as mentioning the environmental, economic and diversification or decentralisation of energy production benefits of this industry.
the report introduces the principle of pension sustainability by introducing market economy criteria into the regulation of public pensions.
the adoption of paragraph 58 – ‘regrets that third pillar systems are most often cost-intensive, more risky and less transparent than first-pillar system; calls for stability, reliability and sustainability for the third pillar’ – made us vote as we did.
the fiscal compact for debt sustainability and public finances should be complemented by a financial union for the flow of credit and the solvency of private entities.
and, in addition, to restore growth, credit initiatives will be needed to improve the sustainability of public finances and to revive growth.
so the principle of social cohesion, together with sustainability and knowledge, forms the tripod on which strategy 2020 sits to re-launch us as a global power.
its effects are particularly pernicious in these times of crisis by diminishing social protection capacity, holding back growth and sustainable employment and undermining fiscal consolidation efforts.
− the system of banking authorities and the prudential supervision of credit institutions needs to be revised to take account of the changing economic and financial environment and the need to provide liquidity to the european banking system, with particular reference to the situation of certain member states whose finances are in critical condition.
this can be achieved by implementing a sustainable system of checks and balances which combines the urgent need for a sound banking system with the equally urgent need to relax the constraints of a european economic policy which has been too rigid and which has also affected the work of credit institutions.
the legislation which provides for the procedures to control the import of products to the eu territory) is currently under revision and will be replaced by the ‘union customs code’, mainly in order to be better adapted to the new digital environment.
worse still, since the transatlantic trade in goods has already been liberalized, it is the rights and rules that organise our economy and our way of living together, our choices of society, that are going to be negotiated: cultural exception, public services, intellectual property, gmos, chlorinated meat, hormone-treated beef, geographical indications, social, health or environmental standards...
in writing.
i am in favour of the setting of a precise timetable, within the framework of the negotiating mandate, for dealing with the most sensitive areas (such as the wto and the protection of public health and the environment) between the two parties, including the possibility of excluding certain aspects from the treaty where the adequate protection and equality of european interests are not guaranteed.
these regional strategies are considered successful for implementing crossborder cooperation policies taking into account the specific socio-economic and environmental context of the region.
we welcome the current developments in, and the strong bottom-up approach adopted by, the regions of the alpine area, which have repeatedly expressed their desire for an alpine strategy to address effectively challenges common to the entire alpine arc, to exploit its considerable potential more consistently and to address the need to improve mobility, energy security, environmental protection, social and economic development, cultural exchange, and civil protection in the alpine region.
i am very honoured to be a member of this house which recognises this social drama and any criticism of this award is a real waste of time.
the promotion and protection of consumer rights are core values of the european union and must be easily and effectively exercised in basic sectors such as food, health, energy, financial and digital services, transport and telecommunications.
ensuring food safety, health, energy and financial and digital products should have top priority in the european consumer agenda.
there is a need for a consumer agenda that reduces inequalities among consumers in europe and contributes to a low carbon economy.
the report addresses the issue by setting upper limits for indicators on such fields, but only sets out action on the risks of short-term emissions.
there is insufficient scientific evidence on the long-term effects of lower emissions, but the report does not call for eu research on this issue to determine accurately what these effects are and what risks workers are exposed to in the long term.
it is therefore necessary to make this development sustainable, otherwise entire regions will be in great danger.
madam president, i have supported this report because i agree that public spending on social housing should be considered an investment as it focuses on the satisfaction of a fundamental right, is labour intensive and stimulates innovation in issues such as energy saving and efficiency.
the proposal contained in this report introduces the polluter pays principle in the sector, using certain ecological criteria to establish the amounts to be paid by drivers for the use of infrastructure.
an essential element to a credible and sustainable common european asylum system is that member states build and maintain sufficient capacity in the national asylum systems.
the second is that competition is a lever for sustainable growth and employment in a globalised environment.
i fully agree with those who mention the transport sector and energy sector.
in fact, the subject of debate today is one we have been talking about for a long time: illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, that fishing which 'seems to be' to some people is particularly attractive because it has a lower price - i am talking about wholesalers or retailers - precisely because it has been done without complying with the environmental, social and other standards required of those who want to do things right and those who do things right.
first i would like to emphasise that a lot of energy has been devoted to combating overfishing in the context of the common fisheries policy reform in the last year, and rightly so.
in fact, sustainability is the red line that can connect this file to the reform and our position in general.
it is a very serious problem - as has been said - for the sustainability of marine stocks and also a distortion of the market.
it is undesirable from an economic point of view, but even more so from an environmental point of view, since it represents one of the most serious threats to the sustainability of fisheries and biodiversity, since it naturally contributes to overfishing and also represents unfair and unfair competition for fleets which, like the european fleet, comply with the established rules.
as i have explained, a lot of our resources, energy and efforts have had to be dedicated to the reform of the common fisheries policy.
mr president, since the beginning of the crisis the member states have made a major effort to consolidate their budgets, to ensure the sustainability of their public accounts, and have adopted very ambitious reform programmes.
the process of consolidation has been progressing despite a much more unfavourable external economic environment than initially foreseen by the institutions involved and the asymmetric shock to which we were subjected.
it would also be very important for countries subject to adjustment programmes to be able to count on european incentives and support for the structural reforms they will need to undertake to improve their competitiveness in the global market and also to ensure the sustainability of public debt.
we can't waste any more time.
this is a symbolic question which reflects the very functioning of the institution, which continues to waste the resources at its disposal to ensure continuity in the debate and the formulation of european policy.
the fishing activity must be rationally regulated and supported by rigorous and up-to-date scientific reports, aiming at the preservation of marine resources, ensuring maximum sustainable fishing yields and at the same time facilitating the socioeconomic development of the fishing sector, particularly in those territories where there is a strong dependence on productive activity as in the case of galicia.
in this sense, it is unacceptable that some countries, such as those mentioned in this report, tolerate, by action or omission, illegal or unregulated fishing practices which have an obvious cost in environmental terms, and also a penalty for those fleets which, like the galician fleet, carry out sustainable fishing.
i voted in favour of this proposal, mr president, because it is essential to establish the idea that the money we spend on promoting innovation, improving the education system and lifelong vocational training, making a health and pension system sustainable so that mobility in europe is possible and, in short, maintaining a common basis for the european social model is an investment in the present and the future that we cannot do without.
only then can we achieve sustainable, intelligent and inclusive development.
social investment focuses on public policies and human capital investment strategies which facilitate transition in changing labour markets and enable the acquisition of new skills for future job-rich sectors adapted to a sustainable economy and society.
however, for the momentum to become sustainable, we need substantive further progress, notably also through further political reforms.
i can assure you that i made comments about protesters and about the way the authorities are going to handle the issue and how this will be a crucial element for re-energising the accession process and finding sustainable momentum.
we are bound to avoid everything that risks undermining the sustainable momentum we want to create.
today the fifth world congress against the death penalty begins in madrid, in a realistic but decisive climate, to pursue the objective in the next decade of achieving a situation in which the reference to the death penalty in a constitution is something as unusual, as inconceivable, as the reference to slavery would be.
in addition, triangular cooperation would be of particular interest in other areas: climate change, development, security issues, global governance, un reform, energy, disarmament, piracy, drug trafficking and a long list of others.
in a rapidly changing world, where political and economic power is shifting, both the european union and the us must adapt to a new global landscape that includes the forces of globalisation, new technologies, faster communication and also new challenges to peace and prosperity, such as a global challenge like climate change.
we are working more closely with the united states on improving our energy security by promoting diversification of sources of supply and transparent global markets, as well as trying to tackle the problem of energy as a source of conflict by coordinating our approach to energy-rich, but governance-poor, nations.
through joint research and better policy coordination on new technologies and energy efficiency, we aim both to boost energy security and to contribute to fighting climate change by reducing greenhouse emissions.
as commissioner de gucht underlined here during the last session, we need to see the broader picture and put all our energy and political will behind these negotiations.
however, the challenges of a growing population and increased pressure on energy, food and water resources require solutions to be found.
climate change issues were also mentioned.
this is a difficult issue, but if i look at the changes made on energy efficiency issues in the united states, impressive progress has been made.
i think that this overall atlantic perspective, which is, so to speak, the new part of my text, has been generally well received by the speakers who have referred to it; in fact, it already had a lot of support in the committee on foreign affairs, and i very much welcome the fact that this overall perspective is also shared by commissioner piebalgs, who seems to me to consider it reasonable and who has mentioned that issues such as energy, water, security or drug trafficking should be among the topics of this possible triangular dialogue or cooperation.
a future, that of development cooperation, which involves making the process more universal and more participatory, especially with the developed countries; maintaining the 0.7; for an agenda that includes eradicating inequality, hunger, imposing sustainability and ensuring access to clean water and health, including sexual and reproductive health, as well as education to which millions of people still do not have access.
it is also in our european conscience to have a global agenda, the agenda of the millennium goals, challenges in peace, the environment, human rights, gender equality and democracy, leaving aside the hypocrisy we have translated into european trade agreements.
briefly: the acp region needs very different agreements, which ensure sustainable development within a context of peace, stability, security, solidarity, respect for human rights and the development of the region as a whole, and do not unilaterally seek profits in exploitable areas such as mining or agrobusiness, including for agrofuels.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
although it includes some important aspects such as the debate on drones or greenhouse gas emissions, it seems to be an unacceptable division of military control of the world worthy of the berlin conference.
the report supports an accountable, comprehensive post-2015 framework, which will be based on principles of human rights, equality, non-discrimination, sustainability, good governance and policy coherence for development, with the objective of creating a just and sustainable world in which every human being can achieve their rights and live free from poverty.
mr president, the situation in russia is symptomatic of the systemic problem with regard to the rule of law and human rights, characterised, inter alia, by a repressive political climate, curtailment of fundamental liberties and the gradual erosion of independent civil society.
a controversial proposal, because the former competition commissioner, nelie kroes, wrote on 9 march 2009 that the tax lease was legal; unfair, because in a case similar to the french one, europe considered that legal certainty and legitimate trust justified the non-repayment of aid; anti-european because social and environmental dumping and public aid that harms free competition are not in bilbao or vigo, but in southeast asia.
cooperatives are a success and it is because of their governance model by democratic management and direct participation, by profit sharing, by education, training and information as the basis of management; because it is rooted in the communities by making social cohesion and territorial cohesion; by a long-term management approach that gives a more sustainable territorial economy.
this commission, the council and the member states must work for sustainable and social growth.
under this regulation, agencies are to increase their transparency and accountability to the ec, including on their compliance with environmental law, human rights, sustainable lending and eu anti-corruption rules.
- i voted against this report because it represents a new attack on marine resources under the pretext of generating 'sustainable growth'.
new technologies, such as robotics and advanced underwater equipment, now allow eu researchers and enterprises to turn to the sea to help combat climate change, to develop treatments for serious diseases, to secure rare minerals, etc.
the need to reduce carbon emissions has rekindled interest in short-sea shipping and is opening the way for renewable forms of offshore energy.
it is an own-initiative report on the commission communication setting out the strategy for sustainable growth and the development of the bioeconomy.
the bioeconomy is the economy that is based on the exploitation of biological resources with application in sectors such as agriculture, health, chemistry, or the energy industry.
the constant increase in the world population, the rocketing growth of demand for food and energy and the scarcity of natural resources worldwide mean that europe will have to reflect on the new approach to take in terms of production and consumption, in order to deal with these new requirements efficiently and sustainably.
the bioeconomy is a major opportunity to meet those challenges by ensuring not only greater sustainability but also support for rural development, a potential reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, improved sustainability of the production cycle and the spread of industrial innovation along the entire value chain.
thirdly, very important, how we think of flood management in the context of environmental sustainability, and how crucial this is.
thirdly, ecological conditions.
i could not agree more with those speakers who stressed the importance of thinking of climate change not as some hypothetical threat in the future, but as a reality today, and the importance of our wetlands not as space that could be used for urban development and intensive agriculture, but as a means of protection of lives and property.
this makes it so very clear that we must work hand in hand with commissioner potočnik on making sure that we introduce concepts of river basin management – points were made in that regard – and ecological sustainability as a factor, especially in flood disaster risks but also other disaster risks.
in this connection, i would point to issues such as the promotion of european telecommunications networks, progress in the creation of the internal energy market and energy infrastructure, to avoid the islands that still exist within the european union and that lithuania knows very well; the in-depth reform of the emission allowance market, as an instrument for environmental protection and also as a vehicle for an innovative and progressive industrial model, thus putting an end to the anomalous situation in which this market is found; finally, clarifying whether the rules governing hydraulic fracturing, on the one hand, and the planning of the development of renewable energies, on the other, should be set by the states or the european union.
i voted against this report, which is designed to intervene in the emission allowance market, because it will not improve environmental protection and because it is harmful to the industrial sector, whose environmental awareness has been expressed through innovation, technology and investments which have produced clear results in terms of emission reductions.
let us concentrate our efforts on spreading this awareness to the rest of the world and devising procedures to avoid environmental dumping.
that is not achieved by harming our industry, which can favour closures and relocations that benefit those who do not produce according to our environmental standards.
- i voted against this report because, despite my group's position on the greenhouse gas emissions trading system, it is not possible to solve problems caused by market mechanisms themselves by means of market mechanisms.
the report presents the plan that determines the greenhouse gas emission volumes for the period 2013-2020. the european union is one of the most polluting places in the world and the report argues that this market mechanism will reduce emissions, whereas the evidence shows that this mechanism has done absolutely nothing.
the reduction in emissions has come about because of the impact of the economic crisis on european industry, not because of this mechanism.
more action is needed if we are to truly rescue the eu’s flagship climate change policy.
we urgently need a functioning emissions trading system that rewards industry for reducing emissions, as a higher carbon price makes investments in green technology and innovation worthwhile.
however, merely postponing the auctioning of 900 million permits is clearly not sufficient, with the surplus of emissions allowances under the ets current nearing the 2 billion mark.
− 1.this market is an essential instrument for an innovative and progressive environmental and industrial policy consistent with the plans adopted by the eu.
the proposal builds on the response system established in 1998 and proposes responses to all types of crossborder health threats: biological, chemical, environmental or unknown.
in this context it is surprising that concerns have been expressed about waste management falling within the scope of the negotiations.
waste management is an environmental service, and typically an eu offensive interest, as is also pointed out in your resolution.
if markets are made more open, our companies will be able more easily to export the state-of-the-art know-how that can help third countries improve their environmental conditions.
indirect land use change through the use of biofuels in the european union is a serious challenge that we want to address, because we see that by making additions and corrections that can improve the renewable policy for the transport sector, its ecological representativeness can also be strengthened, and because on the other hand, in these corrections, we still want to protect the targets set and the investments built on them, to give them confidence.
we were told that we would make a proposal based on only estimated iluc emissions, from - i quote - unsolid economic and biophysical models.
i think we have now achieved a substantiation of the debate and also shown that the commission proposal, although subject to change in details, is broadly in line with market realities and also with our economic and environmental convictions.
we want to stabilise the sustainability status of biofuels, regardless of the country of origin and the raw material from which they are produced.
this applies to the framework until 2020, and with the green paper we have already indirectly opened the discussion on how to propose further developments in the next decade in the field of mobility and renewable energies and within this in the field of electromobility and biofuels .
a cap on conventional biofuels at approximately their current market share provides a balance between limiting iluc emissions on the one hand and protecting investments already made by agriculture and industry on the other.
this cap is an effective measure to limit iluc emissions and is in principle also understood and accepted by the public.
on individual aspects of the debate: stronger incentives for electric vehicles are proposed cars powered by wind, solar or hydroelectric energy and thus not causing environmental concerns, do not cause iluc.
the overall target of 20% renewable energy, the specific target for the transport sector, but also the fuel quality directive are pillars of our energy and climate strategy, and i am confident that with iluc we will now bring about an improvement in this framework.
in our current work on the proposal for a post-2020 energy and climate strategy, we should take these lessons into account and therefore work together early on the next decade, alongside today's proposal.
but they have to be really sustainable and affordable.
that is why today's proposal will bring clarity to the economy, but also greater sustainability.
it's been ten years since biofuels were regulated, and it was time to assess and know what emissions were being produced.
and above all, in the committee on international trade we want agreements with third countries to have sustainability criteria.
the production of biofuels is already sufficiently controlled by the sustainability criteria adopted a few years ago, while many other sectors operate without meeting minimum environmental criteria in countries where social protection is simply non-existent.
biofuels replace part of our oil consumption, reduce emissions, increase farm incomes and are a suitable way of managing some waste fractions, such as used oils, among others.
i therefore agree with the amendments tabled by the committee on industry, research and energy to this report, both on biofuel production and on the provisions for the regulation of forest biomass, and i shall vote accordingly.
we believe that electricity and gas are not quite the same as cars, textiles and food, but we are convinced that the internal market, when completed, will also bring benefits in the energy sector, first and foremost for the consumer, the european citizen, both in private life and in the workplace, in the household and in industry, if the citizen is empowered as a consumer.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of buildings and industry, including the introduction of a new energy efficiency standard for buildings and industry.
not either or, but both is the answer to our energy consumption!
while some people talk only about production, others only about increasing efficiency, my advice is generally that we need more efficiency and yet modern, sustainable, affordable production.
the energy demand of europe and the world will be so great that, in general, the answer is not either or, but both and, that is, everything.
this is why we support micro-generation with our european programmes - a proven programme is the intelligent energy europe programme - both politically and financially, but also in research, and we will continue to do so in the coming years in our various activities, including smart cities and communities.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner oettinger, in the committee on industry, research and energy we are aware of the consensus that the use of micro-generation generates, but we are also aware that it will not solve the european union's energy dependence.
but in any case, micro-generation must play a more prominent role in the european energy mix.
we are aware of its advantages: its usefulness in achieving greater energy efficiency, through its use, especially, in public and private buildings to achieve zero or positive emissions; its usefulness for access to rural and isolated areas; its usefulness in the fight against the increasingly important energy poverty; or its usefulness in the fight against climate change, because renewable energy is used predominantly.
but we have many challenges to solve: access to the grids of the system; in my opinion, the great value of microgeneration is not to dump energy into the system but to favor self-consumption.
mr president, commissioner, allow me to speak for my country for once and, in the context of these reports, to denounce the serious consequences that the reform of the electricity sector proposed by the mariano rajoy government will have on the renewable energy sector.
in my country renewables have become the culprit of a problem the tariff deficit that was actually created in 1997 by the government of josé maría aznar following the failure of its disastrous law on the electricity sector, but the price of a new regulatory failure is now not going to be paid by spain alone, it is going to be paid by the european union, because in short we are talking and with this i end ... (the president cut the speaker off) )
mr president, the energy model is one of the main challenges of our time, a challenge based on sustainability, the fight against climate change, the guarantee of security of supply with infrastructure and without bottlenecks and affordable energy.
the commissioner himself has mentioned a country, spain, which spends 5 billion a year on energy.
the commission will look at these and will certainly take up many of them because they will help us to implement the ‘transport’ societal challenge in the horizon 2020 programme and to set priorities for developing our transport system to become even more efficient, sustainable and user friendly in order to reach our mobility goals.
mr president, i congratulate mrs kleva on this excellent report, which reminds us that we must focus on energy efficiency, which is necessary because it promotes competitiveness and contributes to security of supply.
it is therefore regrettable that the resources of the european structural and investment funds earmarked for energy efficiency have not been fully used.
i believe that resources and efforts should be concentrated on four priority actions: supporting efforts and investments in renewables; paying more attention to the links between promotion, energy efficiency, energy poverty and vulnerable consumers; achieving good results and taking into account the geographical specificities of the outermost regions.
the next period 2014-2020 will offer new opportunities to ensure that erdf and cohesion funds are used to support this necessary energy efficiency.
- i voted in favour of this report because it is committed to the development of a more efficient and effective transport system in the economic, environmental and social fields.
i follow rapporteur's (cramer, greens) concerns with achieving the union’s targets in terms of the reduction of energy consumption, traffic noise, air pollutants, ghg emissions, accidents and land use, thereby reducing the impact of transport on climate change and contributing to improving the health of eu citizens and their quality of life.
this is achieved through consistent and uniform, but at the same time flexible and fair provisions for credit agreements relating to immovable property, promoting sustainability in lending and borrowing and financial inclusion.
the need to ensure equitable and sustainable access to credit and, at the same time, to guarantee the mortgage system, is at the heart of the text we have supported.
in the case of the baltic sea, the belts and the sund, it is necessary to adapt the regulation in such a way as to allow for some flexibility in adapting the activity to the technological and environmental changes in the region.
the amendments are intended to oblige the commission to draw up a new proposal for a regulation on fishing techniques in the baltic sea, which will make it possible to increase the social and environmental sustainability of the activity.
- i voted against this report because i consider it to be a complete waste of time for european citizens and a new impetus for business by the big companies in the sector.
it expresses the need for the construction of new infrastructures to enable the interconnection of the different european markets in order to implement the common energy market.
the report misses an opportunity to legislate self-generation of energy and to consider the problem of the energy poor, instead of mentioning it in a vacuum and without proposing any change to their situation.
the report also adds references to indigenous energy sources, which may include shale gas and also the eu-us agreement to end the mortgaging of europe's future to the interests of the energy multinationals.
despite some good points adopted, the fact that there is a clear call for a shale gas revolution, and that basically promotes the use and exploitation of that type of energy, meant that many of us voted against.
- although this is a controversial issue, i think the debate on this european tax is important because it is clearly linked to the work being done in the itre commission to establish or, where appropriate, strengthen energy networks, which in my view are one of the backbones of the eu.
- i could not vote in favour of this report because, although i share the importance of energy efficiency, i do not share the need to promote it through the financial instruments proposed in the report.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
it should provide a secure and reliable digital environment, guaranteeing fundamental rights and values of the union, including the right to privacy and data protection, the universal right to telecommunications and all its services and net neutrality.
i have been rapporteur for my group in this parliament, and i can therefore vouch for mr rohde's ability to promote this agreement which was adopted by the committee on industry, research and energy and which will be voted on tomorrow in the house.
so all of us here in the commission – and i am happy to have all my colleagues in the commission here with me today – all of us, not just one or two commissioners, this is a collective effort – all of us want to work with you, intensively, to deliver as much of our growth agenda, our sustainable growth agenda, as we possibly can.
we need to extend the same formula to other areas: mobility, communications, energy, finance and e-commerce, to name but a few.
(applause) and whilst fighting climate change, our 20-20-20 goals have set our economy on the path to green growth and resource efficiency, reducing costs and creating jobs.
by the end of this year, we will come out with concrete proposals for our energy and climate framework up to 2030. and we will continue to shape the international agenda by fleshing out a comprehensive, legally binding global climate agreement by 2015, with our partners.
europe cannot fight climate change alone.
at the same time, we will pursue our work on the impact of energy prices on competitiveness and also on social cohesion.
there is no time to waste, so i warn against holding it up.
in today’s world, the european union level is indispensable to protecting these values and standards and promoting citizens’ rights: from consumer protection to labour rights, from women’s rights to respect for minorities, from environmental standards to data protection and privacy.
whether defending our interests in international trade, securing our energy provision, or restoring people’s sense of fairness by fighting tax fraud and tax evasion, it is only by acting as a union that we pull our weight on the world stage.
ms harms, when you say that europe has done nothing or that on climate change there is zero change, come on!
europe is leading the world in terms of the objective for climate change.
we are keeping a very strong commitment to climate change.
ninety-nine percent of scientists, mr farage, believe that climate change exists as a result of human activity: 99% of scientists.
to pretend, as you do, against all well-established science, that the problem of climate change is just an invention of the greens or of the left, is complete nonsense.
of course we have to find a way, of course we have to find a sensible way to fight climate change.
it would be a mistake to base the case on climate change solely on environmental matters.
but we have to make the case also in terms of the economy, in terms of what it can bring in terms of our health, because in fact we have seen increasing numbers of natural disasters that most scientists attribute to climate change.
- i voted in favour of this report because i share the idea that the executive director of the european environment agency should present you to the competent bodies of the european parliament before his recruitment.
parliament has today taken a tentative step towards addressing the negative climate impact of land-based biofuels.
ensuring that emissions from indirect land use change are accounted for under the fuel quality directive from 2020 onwards will help ensure the eu is not promoting use of biofuels that clearly have a negative climate impact.
this will further delay urgently needed action to tackle climate-damaging biofuels.
the result on iluc is also undermined by the failure to include emissions resulting from iluc in the calculation of the greenhouse gas savings limit for biofuels under the euʼs renewables directive.
this contradictory vote ignores the overwhelming evidence that europeʼs biofuel consumption is leading to the destruction of tropical rainforests, with major greenhouse gas implications.
in the interests of underpinning a dynamic environment for competitiveness and growth, while at the same time providing for the proper uniform levels of controls of goods, the rapporteur tabled amendments which promote modern and simple customs rules, based on leading-edge systems, so that controls can be harmonised in such a way that the economic operator (eo) needs to give the information only once.
he therefore proposes strictly limiting the scope of delegated acts to non-essential elements only, as provided for by article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and for a renewable five-year period subject to review.
the report adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety follows overall the line of the draft report, significantly limiting the delegation of powers.
this may allow a breakthrough in relations between the two parties, but we cannot forget the destructive environmental impacts that the palm oil trade causes on the country's tropical and wet forests, which have been virtually devastated.
trade with the eu has damaging environmental and social effects that cannot be reversed.
anything less than that is a waste of time.
both reports provide concrete guidance on how to strengthen our security within and outside the eu’s borders, and i very much welcome the energy and effort behind these comprehensive documents.
the global maritime domain must be open, to allow for free trade and transport; it must be safe for shipping, economic activity and recreation; and it must allow the biodiversity of fish stocks and ecological integrity to be safeguarded.
written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the report by ms sandrine bélier, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on access to genetic resources and fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their use in the union (com (2012) 0576 - c7-0322/2012 - 2012/0278 (cod)) (a7-0263/2013).
because there is a saturation in the european environment at the moment: too much legislation, so that companies and the system are often really constrained by numerous limitations.
in short, the libe committee wants the european commission to be proactive in the fight against crime and in more specialised areas: the environment, smuggling, training to improve border control in 'critical' infrastructures, as well as the judicial dimension, that is, the specific training of european legal culture and the establishment of the package of procedural rights.
the report proposes to boost the implementation of the nagoya protocol, seeking to guarantee access to genetic resources for all humanity and to strengthen the conservation of biodiversity and traditional practices associated with it.
it is the first european biodiversity instrument in over 20 years and the creation of the natura 2000 network (habitats directive).
it allows for greater benefit-sharing from the use of genetic resources for biodiversity conservation.
this new approach to energy production is a real alternative to our current energy systems, which are dependent on external resources.
there are attacks on these energy alternatives, such as the recent energy reform of the popular party in spain.
this implies that there is a possibility of generating a transition towards more sustainable energy systems and the multinational energy lobbies need to activate their networks of influence to stop these types of transitions.
the technology and economic feasibility are available to develop decentralised, diversified and sustainable energy systems and this resolution seeks to promote them.
greens submitted a number of amendments on the importance of decentralised energy systems, of cooperatives, and of ‘prosumers’, i.e.
consumers being active agents in energy production, as well as the importance of dsos and other ancillary services, innovative financing – such as microcredits – and the standardisation of products used in microgeneration.
belarus must enforce the highest international safety standards and a truly independent environmental impact assessment for the construction and operation of all power plants, optimising expertise and financing from all available international instruments in full compliance with existing international legislation such as the espoo convention and the aarhus convention and following the commitment of 23 june 2011 to undertake comprehensive risk and safety assessments (stress tests), taking into account the specifications agreed by the commission and the european nuclear safety regulators group.
ladies and gentlemen, the excess of credit currently on the market has caused the price of coal to be so low that there is no incentive to invest in low-carbon technologies.
the measures to be taken must seek links between the european market and other regional systems in order to establish a genuine global carbon market.
this is the outcome of six rounds of negotiations and i think the text as it stands now, as modified, fulfils the three main principles that this house asked the commission to observe: sustainability, value for money and fairness.
the new protocol also ensures environmental sustainability.
those who opt for ratification to avoid greater evils should be aware that they are making a painful decision that does not put fisheries relations with mauritania on a sustainable path.
i think it is a respectable vote, but what i am saying is that this agreement does not put the relations between the european union and mauritania on a sustainable basis and that it would therefore be necessary to re-think the relations.
europe must negotiate fair and equitable fisheries agreements, based on up-to-date scientific data, without being blackmailed by countries which, in parallel, open their fishing grounds to other fleets such as china, which do not guarantee social rights, security or environmental sustainability.
there they expressed their displeasure and their incomprehension at an exclusion which they regard as unjustified: there are no ecological or economic arguments to justify it; serious scientific reports show the abundance of the octopus population which would allow a sustainable exploitation to continue.
i would like to repeat that this is a good european agreement because it supports sustainability, it is good value for money, it is fair and also it is important for the stabilisation of the region and also for a poor country that needs this income, which represents 10 % to 15 % of its future income.
written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by andrea zanoni, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2011/92/eu on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment (com (2012) 0628 - c7-0367/2012 - 2012/0297 (cod)) (a7-0277/2013).
as the commissioner says, this is a framework directive for the environment, which has been in force for 25 years, but it is also true that it has been applied in a very asymmetrical and different way in all the countries.
to those who say that comprehensive environmental assessment is an obstacle to productivity or even job creation, we must say that if a project is not sustainable, it will ultimately be more costly in terms of environmental damage, landscape damage and even human lives.
in the valencian community you have an example of what happens when a proper environmental assessment is not done - i am referring to the castor project - because the risk of earthquakes from the injection of gas into a storage facility on a sensitive fault has not been properly assessed, and we have a tremendous problem.
we need flexibility, but also rigour, rigor and harmonization to protect the environment, without pretending that this does not create jobs or harm the economy, please!
already in my introduction i made it clear that commissioner potočnik plans, on behalf of the commission, to present a specific initiative on shale gas and the environment within only a few short months, so that will happen and we will have a broader discussion on that.
the world, and the european union with it, is experiencing a period of rapid transition and transformation, in particular of power, demographics, climate, urbanisation and technology.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound.
- i voted in favour of the fisheries agreement with mauritania, although i must point out that the spanish ministry of agriculture, food and the environment has issued very contradictory information which has made it very difficult to adopt a position.
the mediterranean and the black sea have specific characteristics from an oceanographic, fisheries, environmental and socio-economic perspective.
the mediterranean and black sea basins have a very low water renewal rate (80-90 years and 140 years respectively) and are therefore extremely sensitive to marine pollution.
− madam president, i am grateful for this opportunity to contribute and respond to the question from the industry, research and energy committee.
the notion of a european research area dates back to early 2000, and over the intervening years has been shaped to respond to the changing research environment.
gender inequality means that the potential of female researchers frequently goes to waste.
on gender, very disappointingly, only 34% of research performing organisations responding to our survey offer flexible careers and only 18% have recruitment and promotion practices specifically designed to combat the waste of female talent.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and mixtures is a very good one.
written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the eu-china negotiations on a bilateral investment agreement (2013/2674 ((rsp))
mr president, china is the world's largest exporter, the third largest economy and an energy powerhouse.
like the mandé charter, one of the founding texts of human rights history, promulgated under the reign of the emperor of mali, soundiata keita, in 1236. this text, like the english magna carta, deals with fundamental questions concerning the safeguarding of the physical and moral integrity of man, public freedoms, the rules of peaceful coexistence in society, but also the relationship between man and the environment, one of the major concerns of our civilization.
i believe in renewed african-european cooperation, with access to energy, modernisation of agriculture, infrastructure development, education, training and youth employment as its main priorities.
i would also like to talk to you about the high priority we give to energy and infrastructure as factors for growth and integration in africa.
it is in this capacity that i have taken the exceptional decision to initiate a constitutional reform to bring back the seven-year term for which i was elected to a five-year term renewable once.
- i voted in favour of the zanoni report on the assessment of the impact of certain public and private projects on the environment.
there are no economic excuses for not carrying out an adequate environmental risk assessment of certain practices that have been shown to be potentially dangerous.
we are talking about sustainable development, human security and the safeguarding of the environment.
today we are asking in this report that before any extraction is carried out, it should be ensured that any drilling in the area does not also pose any risks to the environment or to the inhabitants.
- i think that the renewal and strengthening of the environmental impact directive is very important.
it is important, among other things, because of the pressure that energy lobbies are exerting to push for the exploitation of shale gas by hydraulic fracturing, which will now have to overcome stricter environmental requirements.
today's vote is very important because it will allow us to better predict and assess the impact of activities and projects that affect our environment before they are implemented.
avoiding, reducing or offsetting negative impacts on climate, environment, biodiversity and health is no longer an option but an obligation.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
we hope that the spanish state will transpose this directive as a matter of urgency and apply it retroactively, exceptionally, to projects which have proved to be environmental failures, such as the castor project.
- i voted in favour of this report because it proposes a revision of directive 94/25/ec setting stricter limits for nox and hydrocarbon emissions from the construction of new recreational craft.
this restriction follows an environmental impact report by the european commission on motor vessels which highlights the need to reduce emissions and noise levels from such vessels.
it is a proposal which does not address the environmental impacts which the commission had pointed out, but i have voted in favour of it by imposing stricter limits on pollution from such vessels.
the eu stresses the importance of greater economic, social and environmental engagement between the two in order to boost both economies by creating synergies that would promote competitiveness and ensure greater transparency.
the common objective of both is sustainable growth and job creation and to this end the eu sees the need to strengthen cooperation and dialogue, which are indispensable to improve investment relations.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
we are pushing for very swift implementation by member states in a legally-stable environment.
in order to finalise the negotiations on energy, we have negotiations on an institutional framework that should also be finalised before any agreement can be implementable.
and we must send a clear message to russia - an important neighbour, as you have just said - that our whole relationship is a global relationship, and in that global relationship there are not only economic or energy interests: there are fundamentally the values we defend in the union.
the issues raised range from fundamental rights to economic and social rights, environmental, cultural and individual rights.
many petitions denounce the loss of biodiversity and the erosion of ecosystems, the poor management of waste, the dangers of nuclear energy and the extraction of shale gas by fracking.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children against the dangers of radiation and the protection of the environment.
a formal request was made by jordan in march 2011 and the protocol was signed at the eu-jordan association council in december 2012. the positive recommendation by the committee on foreign affairs (rapporteur annemie neyts-uyttebroeck, alde): (1) stresses the importance of promoting close cooperation with and support for jordan; (2) stresses the severe impact of the influx of 500 000 syrian refugees on the country’s economy and finances, while finding the closure of the jordanian borders to palestinian refugees from syria regrettable; (3) lauds the personal commitment of king abdullah to ‘promoting a very wide-ranging process of reforms’, while stressing the importance of achieving sustainable results especially in terms of social justice; and (4) welcomes jordan’s constructive role of mediation in the middle east conflicts.
we think that the revision of directive 2006/66/ec on batteries and accumulators containing cadmium is an important initiative, as it calls for them to be banned and for the waste from these batteries to be easily removed from equipment that has reached the end of its useful life before 31 december 2015. it should be noted that, although it is beyond the scope of this commission proposal, the revision of the exemption for cadmium is an opportunity to remove, also, another exemption which seems to be out of place today, such as the possibility that button batteries still contain mercury.
the commission report demonstrates the need to reduce the risk of mercury being released into the environment and therefore the rapporteur has proposed this mercury ban on button batteries.
- i voted in favour of this report as i consider that the proposed amendments to directive 2006/66/ec improve environmental aspects and consumer protection.
the report seeks to introduce such batteries into the directive in the face of the problems of mercury pollution which have been detected in various european countries; it is necessary to tackle the possible sources which release this component into the environment.
mr president, the spanish delegation of the pp and i voted against the annual report of the committee on petitions, and the reason is very clear: it was an open criticism of the recent coastal law adopted by the spanish government, whereas we are absolutely in favour of this law which has combined, for the first time in many years and in a very courageous way, the protection of the environment with the protection of private property as well.
it is clear that terrorist organisations such as al-qaeda or the islamic state in iraq, whose main objective remains to destabilise the country, will emerge strengthened from this climate of instability in a troubled regional context of which iraq is also and globally the victim.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the climate change conference in warsaw (cop 19) by matthias groote, karl-heinz florenz, dan jørgensen, corinne lepage, bas eickhout and sabine wils, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000096/2013 2013/2666 ((rsp)) b7-0518/2013).
mr president, the latest report by the intergovernmental panel on climate change is devastating.
this parliament must be ambitious and it cannot give up 30% or lead the fight against climate change which has achieved so much, in the little that has been achieved, but has achieved so much by setting a standard and pulling the rest of the world.
the next item is the joint debate on the report of mr peter liese, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on in vitro diagnostic medical devices (com ((2012) 0541 c7-0317/2012 2012/0267 ((cod)) (a7 0327/2013), and the report of mr dagmar roth-behrendt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on medical devices (com ((2012) 0542 c7-0318/2012 2012/0266 ((cod)) (a7 0324/2013).
the council is particularly concerned about the european parliament’s idea of drastically reducing the margins available under the mff ceilings and to propose the use of the flexibility instrument for a number of headings, leaving no leeway to cope with unforeseen situations in 2014. to conclude, let me reiterate the council’s hope and conviction that the existing excellent climate of constructive interinstitutional cooperation will prevail during the rest of the budgetary procedure, leading to a mutually-satisfying agreement on the budget 2014. i share the view of ms jensen that we will be able to bridge the gap between our respective positions in order to adopt the 2014 budget in a timely manner for the benefit of the citizens of the european union.
we cannot, in the sixth year of the crisis, let anything go to waste that serves as a lever to consolidate and expand our industrial fabric, without which there can be no social and economic future for the european union.
this is evidenced by numerous scandals of pollution, disease and even deaths caused by the introduction of products on the market that endangered the lives of consumers of such products.
the recycling of ships is an activity with serious environmental consequences, the waste of which has been classified by the oecd as very hazardous.
however, 90% of european ships are recycled in countries that lack environmental or labour legislation to protect the environment or workers from pollution.
for example, this report suggests the creation of the indicator 'demographic vulnerability index' in clear reference to the economic 'sustainability' of public pension systems.
the report develops aspects that represent a step forward in the european union's position, improving the vision on the situation of women, access to natural resources, climate change, etc., but its most important advances are in the position on the western sahara conflict, where it calls for negotiation between morocco and the polisario front, recognizes western sahara as a non-self-governing territory and, therefore, pending decolonization, calls for the incorporation of human rights monitoring in minurso and urges morocco to immediately release all sahrawi political prisoners.
− mr president, i think what we have in front of us for discussion is a very important issue, because this is our opportunity to use the taxpayers’ money in the best way in order to go for sustainable and responsible fisheries.
small-scale fishing, besides being less harmful to the marine environment, is more labour intensive.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, it is clear that the fund must provide budgetary cover to achieve the objectives we have already agreed on the common fisheries policy and the reformed maritime policy, which i can summarise in three general points: to contribute to the new requirements of the cfp, to promote sustainable and competitive fisheries and aquaculture and to promote the territorial development of areas dependent on fisheries.
the sector will have to comply with a zero-discharge policy and there will be greater regionalisation of the measures to be taken to meet the cfp objectives, all on the basis of a fishery in which marine resources are managed at levels above maximum sustainable yield.
that is why i also say that sustainable and competitive fisheries and aquaculture must be promoted, including the processing and marketing sector, which is one of the sectors that provides the most employment and is not sufficiently recognised in the fund.
he voted for sustainability and not for the interests of a part of the sector, a part of the fleet, which is also the most powerful.
mr president, more than a year and a half ago we started working with the involvement of the sector, of various social and environmental actors, and i have never felt pressured or impressed.
we have indeed proposed that in an economic fund which is so diminished, which should be increased, more resources should be provided precisely to the great forgotten ones: small-scale coastal artisanal fishing, which takes the greatest care of the environment, which offers the greatest sustainability.
the financial turbulence of the past year is behind us and the reforms undertaken are the solid foundations that guarantee a sustainable exit from the crisis.
i also agree with your approach to competitiveness, which calls for simultaneous action on industrial policy, financing of the economy, innovation, energy, education and other fronts.
this is encouraging, and it confirms that we are on the right track in reinforcing our economic governance for the sake of sustainable growth and job creation.
thirdly, we need to complete the repair of the banking system and financial industry in europe in order to restore confidence and ensure that households and businesses – and especially smes – have access to finance for the sake of sustainable growth and job creation.
- mr president, the economic crisis has put the sustainability of the european union as a whole in question, raising fears of the disappearance of the euro and the bankruptcy of several states.
thanks to fiscal consolidation efforts, these doubts have been dispelled and the sustainability of public accounts and the maintenance of the welfare system have been guaranteed.
i regret that the annual eu-us summit has not yet taken place and that the climate of relations is somewhat affected by the revelations of the so-called 'snowden case', but the most important strategic relationship the european union has is with the united states.
and in this parliament, particularly in the committee on industry, research and energy, we have already discussed this subject.
an increase of eur 200 million in respect of last year's budget for the external action of the european union, especially as regards development cooperation and humanitarian aid, is not a waste of resources, but an investment in the world's future.
the blue economy will serve to meet the europe 2020 strategyʼs targets as regards the sea, combining knowledge and technological innovation, sustainable use of resources, competitiveness and job creation to achieve smart, sustainable, and inclusive growth.
we are still committed to small-scale fishermen, but legislation must also be put in place to protect the environment effectively against the exploitation of the seas by large companies.
instead of voting to end the use of public funds to subsidise overfishing and the over-exploitation of fish stocks, they have voted to give eu funds to practices that are in direct conflict with the goal of more sustainable fisheries.
− this first reading of the emff corresponds to the reform of the cfp and the need to have sufficient resources for its effective implementation in order to ensure the socioeconomic and environmental sustainability of aquaculture and fisheries activities.
as a socialist from a region heavily dependent on fishing, galicia, i am pleased to see support for our proposals on the integration of young people for generational renewal, in cases of natural and environmental disasters, and those aimed at alleviating the effects of temporary and permanent cessations.
- i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe in the need to act in the face of the climate change that human activity is producing on the planet.
the warsaw conference (cop 19) will be crucial for ensuring the necessary progress in advancing the durban platform to pave the way for the preparation of commitments and the conclusion of a global legally binding agreement by 2015. such a global legally binding agreement must be consistent with a 2°c-coherent carbon budget, equity and the principle of ‘common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities’ (cbdrrc) and must recognise the need for all major emitters to adopt ambitious and sufficient targets and corresponding policy measures for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, reflecting evolving responsibilities and capabilities; the resolution reiterates that 90% of the global emissions growth takes place in developing countries which have no reduction obligations under the current kyoto protocol.
- amendment 1: an ambitious eu emission reduction target is itself an objective of technological and industrial development, energy saving and energy independence; the eu strategy should not be left to external will.
the european parliament has called on the council to adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution caused by nitrates from agricultural products.
a few days after the revelations of the nsa's spying on the private communications of french citizens, after the adoption of our resolution on the prison programmes and secret flights of the cia on 10 october last, it is time to put an end to the climate of impunity surrounding the fight against terrorism by the united states on the territory of the union!
mr president, i would like to stress that the union's environment programme up to 2020, which we voted in favour of, aims to increase the contribution of environmental policy to the transition to a resource-intensive and low-carbon economy.
we therefore think that the rapporteur has strengthened environmental legislation and the integration of environmental issues into other policies with his report and therefore we believe that it is a very positive and priority issue for improving the health and well-being of citizens, because it provides programmes for the overall environment policy framework for 2020. we therefore think that this report is a positive one and have therefore voted in favour of it.
- i have not been able to support this report because, although it introduces many positive aspects about environmental conservation strategies in the member states of the european union, it fails to dissociate them from the neoliberal objectives set out in strategy 2020. the environment is a public good or a common good of the whole society.
the last european union environment action programme ended on 31 july 2012. it is therefore high time to agree on the new general framework for the period up to 2020 and propose an ambitious and realistic vision for 2050, as part of the process launched at the rio+20 conference.
the very title of the programme ‘living well, within the limits of our planet’ suggests a philosophical reflection on humanity’s relationship with nature and on the need to reconcile economic activity with the environment in line with the notion of sustainable development.
- i could not support this report because, although it introduces many positive aspects concerning the control and protection of european citizens from this type of radiation, it does not address the main sources of pollution which are causing the increase in this type of radiation on the earth's surface.
the emission of gases which affect the ozone layer has been an environmental problem for decades and there has been absolute collusion between public authorities and the industries which manufacture products containing these types of gases.
in this report industry is absolved of its responsibilities for the adverse environmental effects caused by the pollution it causes.
we therefore think that what the report does is to pave the way for this review, a review which should provide a stable and sustainable framework, ensure its harmonised, coherent and effective application and facilitate the development of pan-european suppliers.
the next item is the joint debate on:- report by adina-ioana vălean, dominique riquet and inés ayala sender, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a connecting europe facility (com ((2011) 0665 - c7-0374/2011 - 2011/0302 ((cod)) (a7-00021/2013), and- report by georgios koumoutsakos and ismail ertug, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on union guidelines for the development of the trans-european transport network (com ((2011) 0650 - c7-0375/2011 - 2011/0294 ((cod)) (a7-00/2013).
these axes also promote a transport mode as fundamental to europe as rail, which is the most sustainable, but they are also multimodal corridors, where motorways of the sea and other key innovation formulas also appear.
parliament has also called for synergies between the transport, energy and telecommunications chapters, because they are key elements of future transport and mobility, as well as key systems such as sesar or rtms, and interoperability appears as one of the key principles for getting the most out of all these networks.
today the violence has disappeared, but despite the crisis, we are still determined to finish our stretch of the atlantic corridor, the basque y. such a sacrifice would be a waste of time if the neighbouring states did not comply.
it will serve to mobilise private capital that needs legal certainty and, in addition, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, oil dependency and logistical costs.
i am aware of parliament’s concerns regarding the taking into account of social and environmental aspects in the revised gpa.
the specific issue of compliance with social and environmental law is clearly addressed in the euʼs reform package on public procurement, to be formally adopted in early 2014. i am convinced that the result achieved serves the interests both of european businesses and of european citizens.
i thank the rapporteur for his efforts, but we regret that there has not been an interim report to express the views of our parliament on the aspects already mentioned, such as the labour, social or environmental aspects of public procurement.
how is sustainable public procurement covered in this agreement?
public procurement should also be a tool for the 2020 objectives of growth and sustainability.
and speaking of growth and sustainability of public procurement and public services, in my country they want to close a valencian public television because of a totally manipulative pp.
mr president, eleven years ago the prestige caused a black tide with enormous environmental and socioeconomic impact in galicia and on the entire coastal strip from the mouth of the miño, on the spanish-portuguese border, to the english channel.
the commission must ensure that environmental protection and the rights of citizens are effectively guaranteed in the european union.
the future budgetary period will see the eu budget continuing to focus on old, outdated priorities, whilst providing no answers to the current economic, social and environmental challenges faced by europe.
the eu will continue to spend too much on subsidising agro-industry and iter and too little on education, research and sustainable farming.
the ‘national treatment’ principle of the government procurement agreement (gpa), and the consequent prohibition on applying local-content requirements in government procurement procedures, is increasingly questioned in the member states, which would like to discriminate in favour of local providers and products, especially in the area of renewable energy.
at a time when national economies still face a deep economic crisis, yet are pursuing the opportunity to convert, through investment, into innovative and environmentally sustainable sectors, government procurement is not back as a policy tool.
this report introduces the connectivity plans between the different european regions, from road transport to gas pipelines, involving the committees on transport and industry and energy.
the outcome of the negotiations in these committees offers an outcome which ignores the specific realities of each member state, which may need a particular type of transport, to develop the multimodal corridors which allow multi-million dollar contracts to be offered to the big companies in the sector and ignoring their environmental impacts.
- the 'connecting europe' programme is the new financing instrument covering the trans-european transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure networks.
the report improved the commission’s proposal, adding sustainability criteria on cost-benefit analyses, co2 reduction targets and european added value.
an interesting paragraph on environmental legislation and criteria (sea, eia, natura 2000 etc.
), as well as a specific paragraph on inland waterways and environmental rules, were adopted.
our sustainability criteria were integrated into weakened formulations.
- i voted in favour of this report because it represents an improvement in the control of water pollution provided for in the convention on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes.
the amendment to the convention implementing this report involves the establishment of bilateral negotiating fora between countries sharing transfrontier waters in the field of pollution control.
the aim is to foresee the conflicts that may arise from the pollution of such bodies of water.
the convention aims at establishing a framework for bilateral or multilateral cooperation to prevent and control the pollution of transboundary watercourses and the rational use of water by countries of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece).
this report includes the iter project as part of the eu's energy transition while introducing part of its management to euratom, the body that coordinates nuclear policies in the european union.
- i voted against this report because it represents the consolidation of europe's commitment to traditional atomic energy over the next period 2014-2020. our group is aware that atomic energy has many negative externalities which, if taken into account, would make atomic energy one of the least profitable.
the control of potentially hazardous waste during this millennium means mortgaging the future at the expense of cheap energy in the present.
we therefore reaffirm our commitment to renewable energy and to the end of atomic energy on the continent in order to guarantee a future for the new generations living in europe.
the greens/efa group requests that any decision on nuclear research should: enhance democratic control and parliament’s role in relation to nuclear material by introducing the lisbon treaty as the legal basis; limit the euratom nuclear research programmes to activities linked to radioprotection (of people and environment), decommissioning of nuclear installations, safeguards and non-proliferation (which could free up to eur 1 400 million for the eu budget over the next five years); and exclude research into fusion and the development of new types of fission reactors from eligibility for eu public funding.
as regards nuclear waste, the ‘polluter pays’ principle should apply.
this instrument implies that the european union recognizes the risks of using nuclear energy, showing that an instrument is needed not only for the exploitation of nuclear energy but also to assume the risks it entails and to put in place sufficient resources to make progress in safety.
if nuclear energy were to account for the risks and costs of waste control, it could not be profitable.
that is why, despite the fact that the regulation supports nuclear energy, i voted in favour.
key points for greens are to: ensure that this instrument is used to cooperate in the fields of nuclear safety and safeguards and not to promote nuclear energy (the commission was (still is?)
actually using this instrument to – wrongly – promote nuclear energy around the world!!
the final closure of obsolete power stations is essential and the cost of this is to help member states understand that they are paying very large externalities for the use of this energy.
the social fund also contributes to sustainable skills.
the fact that each of the 274 regions of europe has to develop a smart specialisation strategy, for example, and that it must be clear where the economic priorities lie, where the investment priorities must also lie in terms of sectors, in order to create jobs in a sustainable way, is a major achievement of which we can all be proud here in the house.
we are thus missing opportunities for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
i do not need to go into the reasons behind this proposal: there are economic reasons, environmental reasons and reasons for saving the effort of members of parliament and the people who work in parliament.
that initial proposal forgot mediterranean agriculture, forgot european agricultural diversity and, i understand that thanks to the work of parliament, substantial changes have been incorporated, such as a convergence towards a flat, slower rate, in which we propose that no farmer should lose more than 30% of the current aid; greening more adapted to reality so that our producers can comply with those environmental measures; an increase in coupled payments to be able to serve the crisis sectors.
we need to define the agrarian social models, support the men and women who are working, producing food, generating activity in the rural environment - so fundamental to tackle the problem that exists in these times of depopulation.
mr president, commissioner, i believe that this package on the common agricultural policy should guarantee more diversity in primary production in europe, not on a whim but because it is one of the foundations of our identity, it adds more value to production and is basic to other industries such as gastronomy and quality tourism, which generate employment and sustainable development.
energy is a major preoccupation for many european citizens.
that is why we need to keep up the work to deliver a real single market for energy.
we also need to look to the long term with a long lead time for investment in energy generation.
this is reason why the commission will move ahead to start putting in place a clear framework for climate and energy policies beyond 2020. honourable members, we are a community of values and at a time when our attention is directed at the economy we must not lose sight of this.
i would like to reassure him that in january the commission will come forward with an appropriate communication as well as our in-depth analysis on the main drivers of energy prices, because we see energy prices as being a very important factor in the competitivity of the european economy.
we will do this with a lot of energy.
global warming is expected to increase the likelihood of such climate disasters, which will require such mechanisms to help people who are suffering from the crises caused by climate change.
basically, it is interesting the thematic concentration and the derivation that is made, whether it is a developed region, in transition or less developed, to the fight against climate change, to low-carbon economies.
the important new features of this fund would be everything related to energy efficiency which was already included in the thematic objectives of the general regulation and the use of renewable energy in the housing sector, as well as support for improved efficiency of district heating and cogeneration of heat and electricity.
- i voted in favour of this report because i consider it to be a suitable commitment to a type of integration which allows for balanced territorial development which is socially and environmentally sustainable.
the report proposes a way of working for the cohesion funds that introduces ambitious environmental objectives while ensuring action in all those member states whose gdp is less than 90% of the european average.
for example, we have unrivalled advantages from the european regional development fund (erdf), which applies to different innovation, research and sme support programmes to reduce regional disparities between the eu, or the cohesion fund, which applies to europe's less developed and transition regions (with less than 90 per cent of gdp of the european average) and focuses on sustainable development projects such as energy efficiency, decontamination, infrastructure and green transport systems.
this policy is intended to leave behind an agricultural policy that does not allow the benefit for economic, social and environmental sustainability, and to continue to allow the futility of guaranteeing unfair rents and agribusiness.
the new policy aims to strike a balance between food security and environmental protection, to encourage support for active farmers and to encourage young farmers by increasing extra support by 25%.
it also reconciles food safety with environmental protection, by achieving greater flexibility in direct payments conditional on environmental measures.
as kiribati has signed a number of tuna fisheries agreements, the agreement imposes an obligation on vessels from portugal, spain and france to comply with the sustainability criteria for tuna fishing in kiribati's waters when operating in those waters.
the new protocol builds on the 2007 fisheries partnership agreement and enables 10 european vessels (including four purse seiners) to exploit resources responsibly in the kiriwati exclusive economic zone and contributes to the development of a sustainable fisheries policy.
this report seeks to give parliament's position on this, the multiplication of expenditure it entails and the need to avoid waste in these times of crisis.
this report makes clear parliament's position in favour of a single seat to reduce the economic and environmental impact of the institution.
thirdly, clean energy and energy efficiency have also been strengthened by the agreement.
in support of the eu's co2 reduction targets, parliament has secured 85% of the total budget for the social challenge 'energy' for research and innovation in these areas.
this idea of linking it to energy, industry, etc.
is extraordinarily unfortunate, because it could just as easily be included or linked to agriculture or the environment.
mr turmes raised an issue, as did a number of other people, in relation to energy.
on the intelligent energy programme: as mentioned in the commission declaration, the activities of the intelligent energy programme are continued under horizon 2020 and implemented by a dedicated management structure which includes further market uptake activities.
i think it is going to provide a much needed stimulus to job creation and competitiveness, and help our very best minds to find solutions for the issues that are important to people and that they really care about: health and old age, the food on our tables, sustainable energy and transport to keep europe moving and working, a secure europe today and a safe and liveable environment tomorrow.
it has allowed europe to drive its economy to sustainable growth.
as for competitiveness and sustainability - that's the other 40% - competitiveness is about being able to stay open, and sustainability is about not having to close, because a lot of smes see the door open one day and they're quick to close it the next.
we are very positive about the entrepreneurship action plan - the value of the entrepreneur, the creation of companies as a way out of the crisis, the quality and sustainability of the work of the self-employed or the micro-enterprise - although we complain that we do not see clearly the promotion of young entrepreneurs - not the young "erasmus" anymore, but the entrepreneur - the support, the service, the financing.
and, in addition, many security and defence problems arise in a close environment - i am thinking of libya, mali or syria - in short, in our neighbourhood.
the method used here is very technical, and i will not waste your time this morning explaining it, but it means that some of the errors taken into account in our estimation of the frequency of errors found in our sample are not extrapolated for the calculation of most likely errors.
on the basic regulation, i am happy with the result because, as ms rodust has already mentioned, it fully supports the commission’s approach and we are now in a position to fulfil all the sustainability principles.
we are going to bring our stocks to maximum sustainable yield level – or even above this level – and next week we will be discussing next year’s fishing opportunities in the council and we will fight for good decisions.
turning now to the common market organisation regulation, this will, of course, make a substantial contribution to the overall objective of ensuring sustainable fishing and aquaculture activities.
i appreciate the efforts of the rapporteur, mrs rodust, to ensure the sustainability of fisheries in all its dimensions.
we shall have a fisheries policy which ensures ecological, social and economic sustainability, based on the best available scientific data, and in which discards will no longer be permitted.
i hope, mr president, that this reform of the common fisheries policy will make this activity more sustainable and improve the objectivity and transparency of the decisions taken.
finally, i think it is of great interest that fisheries funds should have a more positive impact on development and employment in coastal areas and in the sector, and that sustainability should be given priority.
the ban you propose on certain fishing gear, such as bottom trawling and gillnets, is not supported by anyone, except, with great interest, by environmental ngos and, as i see here, also by some members.
that's an approach that some of us advocate: the vulnerable marine ecosystem approach, where you also protect the ecosystem and where you can't fish.
trawling has not been banned in any country in the world, not even in new zealand, which is a model for the world of sustainable fishing and which is very close to the barrier reef.
we all know that deep waters are especially sensitive because they have habitats with biodiversity that has been formed over long periods of time and because there are vulnerable species that, in the event of loss, recover over very long periods of time.
we have to make a surgery, and that is why we have reached a compromise in the committee, defining the deep-sea fisheries policy, establishing a list of vulnerable species, establishing conditions and limits for authorizations, establishing a list of sensitive ecosystem areas and establishing an assessment.
it is clear that the sector itself is most interested in maintaining sustainability, and this we must do in collaboration with scientific institutes and with objective data to make our sector a profitable and sustainable sector.
deep-sea bottom trawling causes considerable environmental damage and does not offer any positive economic returns.
in addition, criteria were included concerning commitment to sustainable development, negotiating only on fisheries surpluses; the incorporation of a human rights clause and the inclusion of guarantees that the protocol complies with international law and, in particular, with the commitments entered into by morocco within the united nations.
i therefore believe that we are faced with the protocol which best responds to the concerns expressed in this house, with new control mechanisms, both financial and sustainability, and so as rapporteur i can only ask for support for its approval, negotiated on the new bases that we ourselves had called for.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, the negotiated protocol fulfils the council's mandate, fully complies with the european parliament's 2011 resolution and satisfies the european fisheries sector by allowing sustainable, long-term and profitable fishing that is beneficial to both parties.
it also addresses parliament's concerns about cost-effectiveness, sustainability and legality.
i was going to say that at the last plenary session we approved the horizon 2020 programme, which provides for eur 72 billion for the period 2014-2020. never before has the european union devoted so many resources to research, development and innovation, key factors for the development of our industries, the achievement of the digital agenda, energy policy, the reduction of emissions and a more efficient use of resources.
madam president, commissioner, rapporteur, cars 2020 is a european action plan for a strong, competitive and sustainable motor industry.
with the european union, we have an exceptional multi-dimensional cooperation which is expressed in the implementation of infrastructure programmes, training, institutional and budgetary assistance, and interventions in all areas of development: education, health, security, environment, governance, democracy and human rights.
thirdly, the local cultural specificities and the special conditions arising from the physical and geographical environment of the sahel-saharan regions must be taken into account.
my group is not opposed to a fisheries agreement between the european union and morocco, agreed by both parties, which guarantees the sustainable exploitation of marine resources.
in addition to the flagrant violation of western sahara's rights, the agreement does not guarantee sustainability from the fisheries point of view and its economic basis is doubtful.
support the reduction of financial cost in accordance with the cfp criteria, the possible improvement of profitability for the spanish fleet and measures to adapt fishing capacity to surpluses, ensuring sustainable management.
convention no 170 is of fundamental importance for the protection not only of workers but also of society and the environment.
this collaboration agreement will allow 28 freezer tuna seiners and 10 french and spanish flag longliners to participate in the sustainable exploitation of these waters and provides economic compensation for the country.
- i voted in favour of this agreement because it is part of the commitment of the european institutions to the outermost territories such as the canary islands, which prove by deeds and not just words that europe is a territory of values where solidarity is practised and sustainable activities and sectors of activity that seek profitability are encouraged even in the most difficult conditions.
- i voted in favour of this report because it allows the mobilisation of resources to alleviate the consequences of unemployment in the renewable energy sector in germany.
- i voted in favour of this report because it allows the mobilisation of resources to alleviate the consequences of unemployment in the renewable energy sector in denmark.
in order to improve that, a series of good proposals are being put in and this adds to the generally favourable opinion, therefore our group voted for the report in the committee on industry, research and energy.
our parliamentary group is trying to defend the natural and social environment of fishing communities, including fishermen as a fundamental part of it.
small-scale and artisanal fishing is the sector which generates the most employment and allows for a more sustainable relationship with the environment, but it does not seem to have a place in this common fisheries policy.
after intensive negotiations, this regulation has been adopted, introducing sustainable fishing as a priority objective: discards are gradually prohibited, the maximum sustainable yield of a fishing area is required to be respected in order to maintain the fish stock in the long term, and small-scale fishing is encouraged.
given spain's long tradition in the fisheries sector and its great importance for production and employment, i welcome this sustainable fishing strategy to ensure a future for this activity and for marine species.
our parliamentary group is trying to defend the natural and social environment of fishing communities, including fishermen as a fundamental part of it.
- i voted in favour of this report because it imposes restrictions on high-altitude fishing and on large-scale fishermen, whose activity is the most aggressive against the stocks of the marine environment.
deep waters are of fundamental importance for the entire marine ecosystem as there are many migratory species whose replacement rate is affected if they are exploited above their maximum sustainable yield.
the report amends the existing rules on deep-sea fishing so that fishing vessels must exploit fishery resources in a more sustainable way in deep waters.
contrary to the false arguments against phasing out, used by a strong but unrepresentative lobby, these proposals would affect a handful of eu vessels and would have enormous environmental benefits.
as the united nations has stressed, these deep-sea environments are ecologically fragile, with unique biodiversity and slower life cycles.
the new proposed rules aimed to protect deep-sea species, with sustainable quotas and management plans.
- i voted in favour of this report because it recognises the ineffectiveness of the eu's emissions trading system.
these are the real reasons for the deep failure of the emissions trading system, which has proved to be a poor tool for meeting the emission control objectives.
under pressure from very powerful industrial lobbies, many in this parliament want to kill off all european climate action.
however, we are far from having climate ambition that is up to the challenge.
the european union must do better if it is to ensure the success of the decisive conference in paris in 2015. the commission estimates that the energy transition based on energy savings and renewables could create up to 5 million jobs in europe by 2020.
in writing.
- i voted in favour of this resolution because it opposes the adoption of the council regulation on the criteria for determining when paper ceases to be waste.
the council regulation will make it possible for paper with a high content of other substances to be disregarded as waste and, as a product, to be exported to third countries, with the adverse consequences this can have for the environment in many regions.
in this proposal the commission has not been able to demonstrate a valid justification for considering that such recovered paper can be considered as 'product' before its processing, allowing in practice the export of waste.
the international community has kept step with events and the united states, the european union, norway and 40 other governments and international organisations held a forum meeting in washington on 16 april 2013. the forum saw the launch of a partnership to strengthen governance, political inclusiveness and sustainable development in south sudan and to consolidate the progress made since it gained independence.
i think we need more applied research on alternative energy propulsion and i commend the chapter on political governance.
- spain is the second largest car producer in the european union, and i voted in favour of the cars 2020 report: towards a strong, competitive and sustainable european automotive industry.
an action plan including four pillars to maintain its value chain: improving market conditions and competitiveness, investing in innovation and new green and sustainable technologies, anticipating market changes and managing restructuring.
we must be effective as global actors in the defense of peace and development in the world - especially in our immediate neighbourhood - and, as the region with the world's largest gdp and the largest global trading bloc, we must be key actors in the defense of market stability and in the promotion of global trade rules, as well as in the promotion of energy and food security and environmental and social standards.
today, the rate is roughly three times less children dying at less than five years old, and this is a sustainable result.
the rapporteur, mrs schleicher, has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
in fact a lot remains to be done in several sectors, such as banks, telecommunications, energy, competition authorities and transport, in order to achieve a non-discriminatory well-functioning single market in europe.
on the energy sector, this parliament is asking to fully investigate the demand effect.
in the field of the adoption of the guidelines for the strategy for modernising state aid control, we will also be launching the last public consultation on the new energy and environment guidelines in the coming days.
mr president, the great efforts and sacrifices to ensure the sustainability of our public accounts and the structural reforms undertaken over the last two years are bearing fruit.
several of the speakers also highlighted the very important economic impact of the defence industry on the european economy, and therefore i think it is really up to the european union to invest effort and energy in the development of better cooperation and coordination in this area.
the report calls for armenia's participation in eu programmes involving collaboration in the fields of education, environment, culture, etc., to be strengthened to enable people-to-people cooperation with the eu.
the conclusion of the protocol will permit the gradual opening of or reinforced participation in certain union programmes for armenia, offering an opportunity to promote further cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links, enhancing people-to-people contacts and sectoral cooperation, in addition to the strengthening of the political and relations through the eastern partnership and the conclusion of the association agreement.
crises and conflicts affecting countries and regions, and other factors such as terrorism, organised crime, gender-based violence, climate change, cyber security challenges and security threats emanating from natural disasters pose a risk to stability and security.
within the framework of the principles and objectives of the union’s external action the promotion of human rights, democracy, the rule of law and good governance and of inclusive and sustainable growth are two basic pillars of the eu’s development policy.
the nuclear energy sector carries numerous risks which add extra costs to the exploitation of this type of energy and one of them is the transport of radioactive materials.
nuclear energy is a very serious risk in itself and that is why we are against its use, but it is necessary to regulate transport safety by means of a register which guarantees compliance with the most basic safety measures in transport, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
the greens/efa requested that: the ‘polluter pays’ principle should apply in the event of an accident happening during the transportation of radioactive materials; radioactive materials must not be carried in the same convoy transporting explosives; special requirements must be implemented for convoys transporting spent fuel, fissile materials and highly-radioactive material in order to protect the environment and the people and to prevent theft and terrorist attacks; a member state where non-compliance with this regulation is discovered should suspend immediately any transport of radioactive materials by the carrier concerned; the public should be made aware in advance of such radioactive convoys in their neighbourhood.
it is understandable, when at the same time that in many parts of europe social services have to be cut in order to regain fiscal sustainability, banks receive billions in public money.
in fact, a lot remains to be done in several sectors, such as banks, telecommunications, energy, competition authorities and transport, to achieve a non-discriminatory, well-functioning single market in europe.
in order to secure a stable future for the sector and to avoid the depopulation of rural areas along with negative economic and environmental consequences, further steps at european level are required.
among the many areas of coordination suggested, i would like to start with three issues: energy, natural resource management and transport.
all three are essential to build a smart, inclusive and sustainable development by 2020. energy, because we have to break free of our dependence on fossil fuels and the sea is wind and tidal energy that we have to learn to transform and transport in a cost-effective way.
natural resource management, because the management of fisheries with long-term plans, sustainable aquaculture and related processing activities is essential to fixing the population on a desertifying coastline.
but to do so, they must commit themselves to respecting human rights, labour rights, environmental rights and good governance.
is this sustainable?
we must now do whatever it takes to get credit flowing into the real economy, to the households and businesses – especially to smes – for the sake of sustainable growth and job creation.
ultimately it is only these reforms that yield sustainable growth in the medium and long term.
the vote will take place today, thursday 12 december 2013. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mrs karin kadenbach on eco-innovation - jobs and growth through environmental policy (2012/2294 (ini)) (a7-0333/2013)
member of the commission.
i would also like to thank the committee on the environment, public health and food safety as a whole, and the committees on regional development and employment for their opinions.
the european economy faces the challenges of their transition to a more sustainable growth model and the creation of new and better quality jobs.
the commission, for its part, will continue to develop these programmes and the european innovation partnership in the fields of water, raw materials, sustainable agriculture and 'smart' cities.
on the employment side, the strategic challenge is not only to provide new skills to foster innovation in eco-industry, but also to encourage energy savings and the efficient use of resources by improving the skills of employees, and thus to strengthen the competitiveness of european enterprises.
the commission welcomes this report on eco-innovation, jobs and growth in environmental policy, as it augurs for closer cooperation between parliament and the commission to stimulate eco-innovation for the benefit of growth, jobs and the environment.
- i voted in favour of this report because it is a commitment to change the european fabric of production in order to boost the eco-innovation industry, so that the impact of our economic activity on the environment is reduced.
the report does not provide a closed definition of eco-innovation, but it does address the transformation of european production and consumption in ways that reduce its environmental impact.
this is not a definitive report, but it is essential to set a political path for europe to move towards a more sustainable production model.
in times of economic crisis, high unemployment rates, high energy prices, scarce raw materials and dependence on imports, sustainable job creation and economic growth is essential to secure social cohesion.
one way is through eco-innovation, which is a concept combining protection of the environment with growth, competitiveness and job creation.
environmentally friendly innovations are essential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to use resources such as water and raw materials more efficiently, to increase the use of recycled materials and to produce quality products with less impact on the environment, just to mention a few examples, as well as to develop more environmentally friendly production processes and services.
eco-innovation can be many things – a new water filter to clean wastewater, thinner and stronger steel to reduce material waste, or a business model selling repair services instead of products.
it seeks to make the new status compatible with legislation on the environment, agriculture, social policy and public health.
declines in biodiversity and in the status of our ecosystems need to be tackled in order to ensure the continued provision of ecosystem services and the protection of natural capital for present and future generations.
green infrastructure helps nature to yield the full potential of the ecosystem services it can provide to society.
the loss of biodiversity needs to be tackled in order to protect natural capital for both present and future generations.
anthropogenic pressure threatens biodiversity and the integrity of ecosystems in the european union, including through fragmentation and destruction of natural habitats, climate change and intensified use of semi-natural habitats.