− i supported this report, considering it important to pay more attention to the quality of the urban living environment and the need for urban redevelopment.
given the fact that the influx of people into large cities has increased since the economic crisis, we need to look for solutions to improve the living environment of people in overcrowded cities.
the protection and creation of green spaces, together with sustainable urban planning that takes into account the interests of the inhabitants, are certainly important for improving the quality of the living environment.
to better plan the development of europe's cities and to improve the quality of people's living environment, we need to improve the cooperation between local authorities and, if necessary, to change their administrative boundaries to bring them into line with the real situation.
i believe that it is important to focus on the measurable results of cohesion policy in order to increase the sustainability of investments and to ensure the effectiveness of funding programmes.
common foreign and security policy, common security and defence policy, common energy policy, common cybersecurity policy and, above all, the completion of the single market – especially the digital single market – and completion of the emu.
secondly, the conception and welfare state model of the last 30 years is not going to be sustainable.
a prerequisite for a sustainable solution to the budget deficit is a serious commitment to growth-friendly consolidation measures.
this will ensure that cod stocks in the baltic sea will be exploited in a sustainable manner, taking into account the economic, social and environmental concerns.
− i voted in favour of this very important report aiming primarily to diminish the differences between regions regarding their energy connectedness and energy efficiency measures.
structural funds are an important source in providing a greater added value and complementarity to the energy policy goals of the eu.
outermost regions of the eu, in some cases even a whole country like estonia, are often not connected to main energy networks and find themselves in a very disadvantaged situation when it comes to energy supply and energy security.
the report strongly calls on connecting the regions, building energy storages to avoid energy shortage in certain regions.
secondly, cross-border energy projects with the regions outside eu need to be better supervised and full compliance with eu rules needs to be ensured.
thirdly, funds to support projects on energy efficiency must be made more easily accessible and the administrative burden to regions and smes brought to a minimum if we want new standards to be applied, so disadvantaged regions become energy sustainable and could keep up with the overall developments in the eu.
− i supported this report because it serves the objectives of european energy policy, which are security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness.
in addition to that, i would like to stress that investing in energy infrastructure and energy-efficient construction and transport will directly lead to the creation of new jobs, which are crucially needed in today’s europe.
corporate responsibility for the sustainability of the natural and human environment is the foundation of european values and every company should act on this basis.
the reduction of noise pollution has indeed attracted considerable attention from both car and truck manufacturers and their representative organisations.
in conclusion, i would like to reiterate that i am in favour of reducing noise and pollution, but this must go hand in hand with the efficient operation of the transport sector.
there is still too much in the air of national selfishness and less general policies, such as transport links, energy projects, research projects.
fish stocks in the eu have decreased drastically over the years and it is evident that serious changes must be implemented in order to maintain fish stocks above levels capable of producing maximum sustainable yield.
this report also corresponds well to the principles of long-term environmental sustainability.
i am pleased that the majority in this parliament supported the replacement of the current fisheries policy with a new sustainable policy that ensures not only the conservation of fish stocks but also their increase.
i believe this report will contribute to reducing the excessive noise stemming from motor vehicles and more generally help to encounter the public health and environmental concerns related to noise emissions.
− in today's vote, i supported the adoption of a report on limiting the noise level of motor vehicles to ensure greater environmental protection and to reduce the impact of noise on human health.
although the final decision is a little more lenient on environmental requirements for vehicle manufacturers, it is worth noting that annex iii has been given appropriate categories for vehicles, buses and trucks.
in conclusion, i would like to reiterate that i am in favour of reducing noise and pollution, but this must go hand in hand with the efficient operation of the transport sector.
− given europe's current failed fisheries policy, with statistics showing a high level of overfishing (for example, 80% of the mediterranean and 27% of the atlantic stocks are overfished), i supported this report to ensure the sustainability of european fish stocks.
in view of the latter, i am pleased to note that amendments nos 5, 7 and 60 have been approved by parliament, which require fishermen to take account of the requirement to ensure sustainable yields from 2015 onwards, whereby a given species of fish may not be caught beyond its reproductive capacity for one year.
i hope that this reform of the eu's fisheries policy will deliver the desired result, namely the recovery of european fish stocks by 2020 to a level that is sustainable for the future.
i also supported, unlike my alde group, amendment no 139 by mrs sandra kalniete, which would have set the level of direct payments to agriculture in the baltic states at at least 55% of the average level in the member states in 2014 and 75% in 2019. according to parliament's original proposal, our contributions would have been only 65% of the average for the years 2017-2020. i also considered it important to introduce a system of subsidies for large landowners, which is why i voted against amendments nos 198, 130 and 42 and supported amendments nos 105vo and 41. i hope that the tripartite negotiations between the european parliament, the council of the european union and the european commission will lead to an agreement which takes due account of the views of the european parliament and is based on a sustainable agricultural policy and equal treatment.
long-term planning of the eu energy policy is a must in order to reach a sustainable energy supply and biggest possible energy independence.
we have to eliminate energy islands without delay to ensure that europe is not vulnerable to energy supply cuts by third partners.
i welcome the pragmatic approach in the report calling on respecting the climate targets whilst emphasising the importance of energy security.
we also need to maintain the european diversity in energy production and build on regional particularities, such as using solar energy in the south, wind in the north.
member states should be encouraged to refine their existing experience in winning energy from different sources (such as oil shale, possibly shale gas in the future).
incentives could be provided to support the needed environment protection measures in some cases.
europe needs to become self-subsistent as much as possible to ensure energy security and sustainability.
i did not support the adoption of this report in its current form, supporting amendment no 20 to refer the report back to the environment committee of the parliament for discussion and amendment, as the ets needs more thorough reform.
i also disagreed with proposals to artificially increase the price of emission allowances, which would result in a further increase in energy prices for consumers and industry.
the specificity of energy use means that the poorest member states of the european union are disproportionately affected by the increase in energy prices.
however, high energy prices are hampering economic growth and reducing the competitiveness of the eastern and eastern european countries in particular.
of course, europe's move towards a green economy is important, but we should not, under the guise of environmental protection, further entrench economic inequalities between member states.
we will not achieve the eu's environmental objectives by just another artificial price increase.
the report proposes a new tax to create a demolition fund to help improve environmental compliance in ship demolition.
the analysis carried out by the environment committee itself, while supporting the introduction of a new tax, leaves several important questions unanswered and is therefore not sufficient to make such a significant decision.
when we presented the white paper in february 2012 we aimed to show how to ensure, against the background – rightly mentioned by mrs oomen-ruijten – of ageing populations and fiscal constraints, that our pension systems remain both sustainable and capable of providing retired citizens with a decent income.
however, to achieve the twin goals of adequacy and sustainability, ambitious and sustained efforts are required on the part of all the actors: the member states, the eu institutions, social partners and stakeholders.
the basic principle of completing the internal market should apply to all areas, and this report presents constructive and positive recommendations on how to apply the internal market also in the field of renewable energy.
promotion of renewable energies and their use should not put in danger food security and agricultural competitiveness.
i believe that an integrated and competitive energy market will reduce energy costs and boost economies and innovation.
europe needs the internal market to be completed in every aspect without delay, while energy is of great strategic importance.
europe will not be safe and secure as long as there continue to exist isolated energy islands and energy supplies depend mainly on national borders, grids and rigid long-term bilateral agreements.
after all, national interests are best protected in an energy-interconnected europe – the best guarantee against unexpected turbulence and energy shortages.
in today's vote, i supported the adoption of a resolution on an action plan for an adequate, secure and sustainable pension.
regional aid can only play an effective role if it is used in a sustainable and proportionate way and if it is focused on the most disadvantaged regions of the eu, where the need for regional aid is greatest.
we welcome the commitment of the greek government to launch a media actor that fulfils the important role of public broadcasting and is financially sustainable.
it is the only way to escape the scourge of unemployment, and particularly youth unemployment, which has been mentioned here repeatedly by members today and which saps all of the energy and dynamism from our citizens, from our populations.
regional aid is only effective if it is used in a sustainable and proportionate way and if it is focused on the most disadvantaged regions of the eu, where the need for regional aid is greatest.
mr president, as a strategic partner of the european union, azerbaijan has a strong economic model, a climate of religious tolerance and secularity.
with a number of amendments, we will reduce the actual waste of paper and increase the scope for control.
i hope, however, that tomorrow parliament will support a single registration document, and that we will take an effective step towards environmental protection and consumer friendliness.
a small country like estonia can be an example of how to be frugal and sustainable.
the report clearly highlights the scale and importance of the export credit operations their total exposure was over eur 250 billion, almost twice the annual eu budget, including 260 transactions with a high environmental impact.
given the scale and impact of the transactions, it is essential to take account of the eu's core values and the general norms of external action, such as the promotion of democracy, the protection of human rights and the protection of the environment.
i supported the report which draws attention to the above and also to several shortcomings, such as the inadequate quality of the reports, which do not allow for an adequate assessment of, for example, the handling of environmental threats and the adherence to the union's foreign policy objectives.
cooperatives also better meet the objectives of sustainable economic and social development of local communities by being more socially responsible.
in order to better ensure the sustainability of the eu and the achievement of its objectives, i support the proposal that the source of revenue for the eu's own resources could be a financial transaction tax or a new eu vat.
- i voted against the timing of the greenhouse gas auction today.
this is a half-baked solution that does not provide a sense of certainty that the decision will actually achieve the desired effect on the emissions trading system.
i am all for reducing co2 emissions and developing new technologies, but unfortunately i cannot support improving a system that is designed to work on the market and is artificially created simply because we do not like the price we get there.
when the eu created the ets, its main objective was to reduce emissions.
today, we have reached a situation where emissions have been reduced by investing in lower carbon technologies and renewable energy.
but we also know that the reduction in emissions is mainly due to the decline in economic activity due to the economic downturn.
the commission needs to come up with a longer-term and broader strategic plan as soon as possible, covering both the changes to the quota system and the renewable energy sector as a whole, as emissions reductions are very closely linked to both topics.
member states such as estonia have shown us how to be an e-tiger, now we need to turn this into a european e-tiger to ensure our e-sustainability and acquire our e-potential.
of course, it is more important than the technical details that the european union's assistance also be of real benefit and help achieve the objectives set to ensure the further development of a sustainable economy and civil society in georgia.
after years of negotiations, and in a positive climate for a possible economic agreement with armenia, it comes as a surprise that the armenian president has decided his country should join the customs union with russia and the eurasian economic union.
this report once again highlights the main bottlenecks that need to be tackled if eu wishes to reach its target on completing internal energy market by 2014. most important is to increase cross-border energy cooperation and ensure solidarity between member states.
energy islands still exist and need to be connected to rest of european energy systems without further delay.
this is not only a question of energy security but also an economic one, considering that a competitive and open energy market is one of the main pillars, which hardly can be accomplished if energy islands persist.
competitiveness and openness are the core values of the european economy, including energy.
ensuring transparency and easy access for new actors will generate affordable prices for the consumers and enable free choice of energy providers according to needs.
i underline what is said in the report that local cooperatives could facilitate greater participation of consumers, through smart appliances, decentralised storage and collective switching initiatives that would increase awareness among consumers about their energy behaviour both as consumers and as micro-producers.
we need to achieve the mentality change towards energy on a personal level that would then lead towards general conscious energy behaviour.
to remove the climate of impunity, the judicial system must make accountable those who have committed human rights violations and war crimes.
yet we are witnessing its ‘strategic partner’ fining, imprisoning or otherwise persecuting human-rights and environmental activists and civil society at large.
the placing on the market and the disposal of batteries and accumulators are primarily concerned with environmental protection.
it is important that the relevant nodal elements can be properly assembled and that the potential risk of environmental pollution arising from them is minimised.
− i supported this report, considering the importance of the further development and sustainability of european civil society.
despite the fact that the public sector was the one that cut back most in supporting civil society organisations in the context of the economic and financial crisis, increasing funding alone is not the most important means of ensuring the sustainability of civil society.
in some fields, such as it and environmental technology, learners are recruited from 'the school bench'.
− i supported the european parliament's resolution rejecting the council's proposals to reduce spending on employment and research in 2014 as being incompatible with the priorities of the next year's budget, such as sustainable growth, the fight against youth unemployment, competitiveness, the eu's role in the world and job creation.
− i voted in line with the original proposal by the european commission that aims to assure the sustainability of fish stocks now and also in the future.
this fund is a very important investment in the transport, telecommunications and energy sectors, accelerating investment in trans-european networks through public and private financing.
the connecting europe facility includes a €10 billion redeployment of cohesion fund money to implement projects in the transport, telecommunications and energy sectors, contributing to the acceleration of eu integration and the harmonisation of technical infrastructure through a number of key projects.
i am therefore pleased that the council gave its support to the allocation of additional funds of eur 11,2 billion to the 2013 budget and the commitment to review expenditure in 2016. europe needs a sustainable budget that will revive our economy and offer solutions to various problems such as high youth unemployment and marginalisation.
this fund is a very important investment in the transport, telecommunications and energy sectors, accelerating investment in trans-european networks through public and private financing.
i fully support the transfer of eur 10 billion from the cohesion fund to projects in the transport, telecommunications and energy sectors, as this will help to accelerate the integration of the eu and the harmonisation of technical infrastructure through a number of important projects.
i support the ten-t regulation as it covers all modes of transport and helps to improve overall competitiveness, reduce the environmental footprint of the transport sector and improve the functioning of the single market by combining the capacity of countries to cooperate.
what a waste of resources.
in order to achieve economic efficiency and environmental targets, the solution is as simple as that: let us stop travelling to brussels.
as regards greening, it is clear that in some member states, such as my home country of estonia, the use of land with ecological use, for example, is quite difficult to explain.
on the other hand, it is a measure to achieve economic success and a measure to stop the waste of human resources.
the direct payments regulation is arguably the most eloquent expression of the ep's political will to support the environment through the greening component, support young producers and limit subsidies.
sme sustainability cannot be guaranteed when, instead of doing business, most time is spent on complying with administrative and bureaucratic regulation.
− environmental protection is not only a fundamental value that we all stand for, but also an integral part of the very fabric of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
therefore, measures taking into account environmental sensitivities must be brought into the implementation of the unionʼs policies and activities.
it has been proven via numerous studies that deep-sea fishing with bottom trawls not only produces huge amount of by-catches but also leaves behind permanent damage to the whole ecosystem.
'bury the conservatives like a shark' is not the answer, and the 19th century backwardness is not sustainable or compatible with the 21st century.
in this regard, the european neighbourhood policy is designed to spread these values beyond the euʼs borders, which will set the foundation for prosperity and sustainable development in the european neighbourhood.