we have talked a lot about energy policy and it is important that in the coming period these cohesion funds should also be able to invest more in energy policy and in renewable energy in particular, because it creates jobs, it creates growth in many regions, including the more remote regions.
other countries have shown that the right policy decisions produce results for sustainable fishing.
not only is cod a delicacy, but it also plays a unique role in the baltic sea ecosystem.
i am glad that the report also takes account of the position of consumers, since energy is one of the basic commodities.
as the report states, the expected increase in energy prices could make this situation even worse.
this is why one of the main tasks of eu energy policy should be to ensure affordable energy for all citizens and in all regions.
in the current political climate, europe is not strong enough to cope with the growing populist moves, and with them, of course, the declining understanding among citizens of the enormous importance of keeping europe together.
we underline that the iraqi authorities should use their oil revenues as a contribution to sustainable social and economic reconstruction.
overfishing is not only an ecological disaster, it is also an economic and social disaster.
one of the main points of the vote is to achieve maximum sustainable yield.
every year, 1.7 million tons of dead or dying fish are thrown overboard, an immoral waste.
in the present economic climate, we cannot afford to lose such a stimulus!
only with this type of ideas and initiatives can we develop a european business environment where businesses can truly thrive and grow.
the cheapest way to reduce noise pollution is to reduce the noise from the source, the cars.
i would urge my colleagues to support the compromise of the committee on the environment, proposal 51. i also ask for support for the additional 2 decibel step to be taken in 10 years' time, proposition 67. i am surprised that the ppe group has been allowed to put its name to three different proposals on noise limits for cars.
we have taken the first steps or, indeed, the first steps towards a sustainable fisheries policy.
i am thinking of the state of the environment, biodiversity, the rational and sustainable nature of economic activity.
i have assessed the reform of the fisheries policy from both ecological and economic perspectives.
even the international energy agency, which has traditionally been the voice of fossil energy, warns that two thirds of known fossil resources should be left in the ground.
we must set an example for the world by setting three targets for 2030: emissions, renewable energy and energy efficiency.
we need to fix our emissions trading so that it actually encourages investment in clean alternatives.
the companies that want to invest in europe are appealing to us to fix the emissions trading system.
if parliament does not support the correction of the emissions trading system, it will be interpreted by the world as a signal that we want to destroy the emissions trading system, which would of course have the worst international impact.
all over the world, in australia, korea, california and china, they're implementing emissions trading, following our lead.
it would be a shame if, at the same time, we were to let our own emissions trading system wither away into insignificance.
first, a very important issue in the global climate debate is lulucf, or reporting on land use, land use change and forestry.
it would be very interesting to hear the commissioner's assessment of how lulucf will be included in the global climate agreement after 2020. the kyoto protocol, as we know, has included this, but there is still room for improvement.
what role does the commissioner think agriculture should play in the global climate agreement?
i put a written question to the commission on this and asked that the commission consider drawing up a green paper on a sustainable ageing policy and take action to increase fertility in europe.
europe needs a comprehensive strategy and a green paper on sustainable ageing policy.
i believe that the european union and we who make decisions in the european union must promote responsible and sustainable business, and produce and promote legislative proposals that enable consumers to make responsible consumer choices.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
when planning our energy plans for 2050, the most important thing is to have a clear vision of what we are aiming for; instead, the means and intermediate objectives must be kept open and guided.
the report by parliament on the energy roadmap is therefore a good and balanced one: it would be shortsighted to lock in the objectives and means in a changing world.
it would also be a mistake to set binding targets for renewable energy and emission reductions now, even as an interim target for 2030, as the world energy market is undergoing major changes and the increase in climate change research may force changes.
lng has already revolutionised the american energy market and, at the same time, the global market: change is possible in europe too, if lng reserves are used in an environmentally sustainable way.
similarly, as climate science evolves, the focus is shifting from carbon dioxide control to faster and more effective measures to combat climate change, such as eliminating black carbon.
there has been an unhealthy trend in the eu recently towards short-sighted populist energy solutions, as exemplified by germany with its plans to phase out nuclear power and support renewable energy.
the price tag of these decisions is proving impossible to sustain as a result of the carbon victory.
the large support policy for renewable energy with feed-in tariffs is detrimental to renewable energy itself: these forms of energy never mature into efficient ones when they do not have to seek their profitability from the market, but remain, as it were, at the breastfeeding price of feed-in tariffs.
worldwide, forestry and land-use change are estimated to account for about one fifth of all greenhouse gas emissions, somewhat more than all the world's transport combined.
many estimates also put forestry and land use measures among the least costly ways of protecting the climate, but at the same time, many traditional policies are being called into question and are therefore hotly debated in many countries, not least in my own.
but if we neglect to do something about forests and soils, or if we under-report emissions, we raise the overall cost of climate protection.
in the case of logging, the stumps should not be pulled out of the ground for burning, since all these activities transfer carbon from the ground to the air.
we all want to reduce the environmental impact of agriculture.
for example, new energy infrastructure, cross-border railways or cutting-edge research are more effectively conceived and financed from a common pot.
in this respect, it is good that we draw a clear line on these phenomena and that we fight together globally against the organisation of games and corruption in sport, and thus seek to restore it to a sustainable and ethical basis.
−i voted in favour of the energy progress report, as the resolution contains many good proposals that will guide the eu in a sustainable way in its energy policy towards 2050. i welcome many of the votes, for example that it would be a mistake to make binding targets for renewable energy and emission reductions now, even as an intermediate target for 2030, as the world energy market is undergoing major changes.
the increase in research on climate change may also force new changes in the actions we choose to take.
as climate science evolves, the focus is shifting from carbon dioxide control to faster and more effective measures to combat climate change, such as the elimination of black carbon.
so it's better to focus on visions of a sustainable energy future, but we're not going to lock in anything binding for now.
i would like to say, however, that i strongly disagree with article 91 on emissions trading, which was adopted by a narrow margin of three votes.
emissions trading works well because emissions are reduced as planned.
similarly, the linear reduction requirement of 1,74 per cent should not be affected, and any necessary structural changes should be targeted beyond 2020. only in this way can we provide a reliable and credible operating environment for our companies.
- i voted against the energy roadmap.
article 91 is the basis for the commission's proposal on emissions trading, which we shall be voting on in the next plenary session with this in mind.
at the same time, unfortunately, the price of energy is also rising.
article 91 calls on the commission to act swiftly to improve the environmental impact of emissions trading and thus indirectly to prepare for the removal of allowances from the market.
i wish we could someday bring the power of carbon under similar scrutiny, the radiation it causes, the particle deaths it causes.
who will care for the thousands of people who die prematurely because of this energy choice?
it offers the potential to find solutions to global issues such as global security, the economic crisis, workers' rights, the democratic deficit, climate change and the promotion of human rights.
the energy efficiency directive did.
the market is volatile; it's not that the emissions market was not working well when the price fell, it was meant to be, it was a natural consequence of the recession.
now that the recession has brought about the reduction of emissions, the market mechanism is no longer suitable for the commission.
most also agree that structural reform is needed to achieve emissions trading.
it is essential to look honestly at what is most disturbing the emissions trading market: in the confused jungle of subsidies, we lack a level playing field in the energy market, which is why no one today dares to invest in anything but subsidised energy.
why does it not try to prevent this artificial national support for renewable energy, which distorts the market?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when you listen to the industry's arguments on emissions trading, it seems strange that the companies that have received and will receive their emission allowances for free are opposed to this back-loading, but instead there are many back-loading supporters who are now paying for their emission allowances, namely the electricity companies.
to those who think that by fighting back-loading we are making way for something new and better, i want to say: i'm sorry, if the emissions trading collapses, the result is only the free right to pollute for free.
the vote on the so-called rebalancing of the emissions trading system is one of the most important and certainly the most discussed votes of the week.
the rejection of the proposal would send a sad message about the political will to address the climate issue.
the fight against climate change cannot be solved by emissions trading alone, but the functioning of the scheme as a flagship of eu climate policy is important.
the scheme was created to guide investment in building a low-carbon society.
at the same time, the need to combat climate change is becoming increasingly clear.
it is extremely worrying and sad that the level of ambition for climate action is not increasing at the same time that estimates of up to 6 degrees of warming by the end of the century are becoming more common.
backloading is just a repair business, and it's not going to solve climate change.
we very much regret that the eu has now decided to suspend aviation emissions trading for flights between the eu and the rest of the world for a year.
we could accept this if the eu decided at the same time to use the revenues from aviation emissions trading to help developing countries with climate action, but unfortunately the eu governments did not accept this.
on the other hand, we say that we want an international system to curb air transport emissions, and that is absolutely right.
our best way to neutralize the chinese and indian resistance to the international aviation emissions trading system, or to the international system at all, is to promise to use the revenues we ourselves get from aviation emissions trading to help developing countries with climate action.
this would have been a real way of promoting the creation of an international system to control aviation emissions.
the commission's recent eu cybersecurity strategy is based on the premise that each country will seek to manage its cyber environment at national level against, and also respond to and recover from, adverse effects, whether intentional or unintentional.
in a modern society, when you get down on your knees, you're also more efficient at shutting down critical infrastructure like transportation, payment systems, or the energy grid.
the cyber environment is made up of not only the public sector but also a wide range of businesses and the private sector.
the european emissions trading system is currently in serious imbalance.
i understand the views of the business community that industrial investment requires long-term industrial and climate and energy policies.
it is true that greenhouse gas emissions are big and important issues, and today, after the vote, we did indeed decide to go back to committee, which is a good thing.
and as far as emissions trading is concerned, it must be a global mechanism and we must act in such a way that we do not unduly harm european and finnish industry and, above all, what is important here is that we do not start changing things in the middle of the programming period, but indeed predictability is also important for decision-makers and industry, and in this way we must take care of our competitiveness.
our message to the citizens before the forthcoming european elections is that we want a europe of work and, more specifically, a world which is sustainable in terms of environmental values.
we will not support a climate policy which is made at the expense of clean european production and industry.
then we need to fix the climate policy structures, not raise prices over and over again.
we don't want to kill the emissions trading.
it can help to find the most cost-effective way of reducing emissions, but this requires clarification of the carbon market.
the commission has threatened that if we do not raise the price of emission allowances, the emissions trading will be destroyed and we will be left with a jumbled list of national politicians.
a fair and well-functioning carbon market requires that emissions trading is not disrupted by overlapping legislation.
if the commission wants to save the emissions trading system, it should rely on it as a market mechanism.
emissions trading does the job and also steers the increase in renewable energy without the need for separate renewable energy and energy efficiency targets.
it is these national subsidies for renewable energy that have distorted the energy market.
it is not good for the european economy that we are developing energy which is not profitable in itself.
- i voted to reject the rebalancing of the emissions trading system.
allowing back-balancing would not have reduced world emissions but, above all, would have redirected more european industry to countries where emissions are not controlled.
the result would have been an increase in total emissions and a threat to jobs in the member states.
the rebalancing would have raised the price of the allowance now, which in turn would have raised the price of energy in the short term.
in the present economic situation in europe, such an artificial increase in energy prices would have been irresponsible and harmful to our industry.
by keeping production here, we're actually reducing emissions better than if we were to move production to cheaper countries.
in the current economic climate, we cannot afford to leave any potential entrepreneur behind.
the global economic environment has changed significantly: eu action on trade, investment and development in developing countries must take on new dimensions.
it is not sustainable to continue the policy of increasingly solidarising debts, whereby the invoice is always sent to an address other than the one responsible for the situation.
and therefore this year we should, to my mind, postpone discharge in the case of the european environment agency.
i want everyone to understand that it would harm the environment agency even more if we granted discharge now and then it turned out that we should not have granted it.
we need sustainable growth in the european union, and to do that we must also be very careful in our own budgetary adjustments and look at investments which are long-term investments and will therefore also return back stronger growth and prosperity for the whole of europe.
the eu's anti-fraud agency is currently investigating the work of the european environment agency because of suspicions.
when i, as the chief negotiator of my group, pushed the postponement of the discharge until october, a heated debate was launched in parliament, with the defenders of the environment agency using a peculiar argument: they say that the agency should not be judged on the basis of mere suspicion.
unemployment, especially among young people, the public deficit and debt have risen, and the investment climate has suffered.
turkey plays a very important role in ensuring the eu's energy security.
this is actually a good thing, because now there is more time than anyone imagined for the sustainable and peaceful exploitation of the area and for respecting the rights of the people who live there.
the arctic is a prime example of how international agreements have already succeeded in curbing peace and sustainable development in the region.
the region must be given growth and investment, but in a way that respects the principles of sustainable development and respect for natural diversity.
the eu's arctic policy lacks a strategy and my group proposes and supports the development of an eu arctic strategy as soon as possible and complete, taking into account the livelihoods, the environment and, of course, the people.
the question of parliament rightly raises the concern whether we have something to offer in this cooperation, that is, whether we have a clear and updated plan and sustainable objectives for an eu strategy for the arctic regions.
the 2012 communication did indeed provide some guidance, and i would particularly like to highlight the excellent and comprehensive report by mr gahler on a sustainable eu policy for the northernmost regions, which was adopted by parliament in january 2011. it balanced the emphasis on the potential of the arctic regions, their vast natural resources, raw materials and energy resources, new transport routes and tourism, with a focus on the vulnerability of the fragile arctic nature and the rights of indigenous peoples.
the european union is committed to defending the sustainability of the multiethnic and multi-religious states of the western balkans.
tomorrow is the eu summit on this subject, but i think it is very sad that the heads of state are meeting for two or three hours to discuss this matter and energy.
at least, it should be possible to determine the minimum levels of corporate, environmental and capital taxes in the normal legislative procedure.
it is very important that we in the european parliament pay attention to the exploration, exploitation and production of oil and gas on the high seas and, above all, to the fact that it can be carried out safely and that environmental risks can be avoided.
the measures needed are, of course, to ensure that we can process the oil and gas produced there in a sustainable way.
mr president, it is precisely in order to ensure the sustainability of emu that it is important to create a social dimension to emu.
that is why i believe that the majority of the european parliament, like commissioner rehn, wants a stronger, more united, more democratic and more socially sustainable european union.
how much time can we waste?
i respect your view that we should discuss this later, but we have now discussed it and so should not waste any more time.
the report also proposes that the structural and cohesion funds should be used to invest in energy efficiency.
the benefits are converging: an ageing population needs more affordable housing, a construction industry in recession needs contractors, and the tightening of environmental standards for buildings requires a renewed housing stock.
this is the climate agreement we expect to be concluded in paris in 2015 and to enter into force in 2020. my wish is, in fact, for the eu: i think we should consider how obsessively it is worthwhile to stay within the framework of the kyoto agreement.
we should stop dismissing the united states as the anti-hero of climate policy.
it's not, given the emissions reduction figures.
europe invested in bureaucracy and regulation in climate policy, the us invested in research and development.
we set emissions caps and we made very expensive climate policies, the us is betting on decarbonization of the economy and investments in technology.
the promotion of sustainable growth in the eu's maritime economy.
i would like to draw particular attention to this report, not only to the fisheries and aquaculture sector, which is perhaps the first to come to mind, but also to blue energy, which means the exploitation of offshore wind power and tidal and marine thermal energy.
at the moment it seems that the commission is making policy on agriculture, industry, energy and the environment almost without knowing about each other.
the support measures in the various member states, for example for the production of bioenergy and industrial support for renewable energy, are also quite fragmented.
however, the bioeconomy could be a worthwhile investment for the eu in the future, both in food security and in the energy industry.
it is in the interests of all, both workers and the environment, that such rules exist.
it's very focused on renewable energy and offshore wind.
last year, researchers discovered a massive phosphorus leak off the coast of the baltic sea, from russia's kingisepp, a waste mountain of a fertilizer plant.
this year, two similar leaks were found in poland, also in the waste from fertiliser plants, gznf fosfory and zakady chemiczne.
mr president, parliament has, as it were, adopted a climate policy position on the reduction of emission allowances from emissions trading, which is consistent with the broad climate policy line adopted by the eu in the last decade.
that result was not acceptable to the committee on the environment, which quite logically and understandably wants to continue on the chosen path.
why do we think that exporting industry and thus reducing employment and ultimately releasing the same greenhouse gas emissions outside europe would save the world?
these major structural reforms in the member states are therefore needed to build social and health systems on a sustainable basis in the future.
if these restrictions, which have now been put forward in the committee on the environment, are accepted here in the plenary, it means that there will be no new investment in europe which could then use these wood-based biofuels.
energy is a necessary commodity for households and a crucial competitive factor for industry.
affordable energy is a fundamental right, especially for low-income europeans, who are forced to pay much higher prices for their energy than higher-income households.
i am very pleased that the eu is also promoting a functioning internal market in the energy sector.
however, i hope that the eu will not be content with opening the internal energy market on paper, but that eu action will bring real freedom of choice to consumers and also as soon as possible.
the opening up of the energy market also brings with it increased responsibilities for the various parties.
without the active participation of consumers, a functioning internal energy market and a fall in consumer energy prices will be nothing but a dream!
mr president, listening to this debate, it has occurred to me that young people are indeed the renewable energy that should be invested in.
that renewable rainfall would really produce in the future.
fortunately, the vote eliminated the worst and most limiting factors, such as the different sustainability criteria for different parts of the tree.
the application of the directive must not jeopardise the european model of a balanced and sustainable social market economy.
the practice of impunity leads to a climate of repeated sexual crimes.
the bahraini government faces a difficult challenge to prevent unrest in the current political environment and climate.
it should not cost the eu unnecessarily much and it should make sensible and sustainable fishing profitable.
it is an agreement that is environmentally and socially and economically sustainable in a way that is very different from any of our previous agreements.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's environmental policy is not distorted.
first, the environmental impact assessment is extended to hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, used in the production of shale gas.
secondly, the qualification and independence requirements for environmental impact assessment staff are specified.
in my own country, there are a number of projects, including peat production and mining, where local people are suspicious of environmental impact assessments... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing.
we must not spare europe from death, but must do everything possible to promote sustainable employment, combat poverty and exclusion and strengthen social cohesion.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr malcolm harbour, for his excellent cooperation and his leadership in producing an excellent report which will help us to promote consumer safety and more sustainable development.
in addition to protecting consumers, the reform also protects the environment.
one of the environmental benefits of the reform is that it will promote the uptake of biofuels.
i am pleased that the reform will also help to support the activities of european shipping companies, will support their competitive potential on the global market and will move us towards a more sustainable and safer eu.
it is regrettable that this eia legislation has not become more effective in terms of public communication and, above all, biodiversity impacts and wider ecosystem impacts.
we must then, in assessing the environmental impact of projects, and particularly those that use extensive land, such as mining projects, take into account ecosystem services, biodiversity and the wider environmental impact.
it's the only way we can build a sustainable economy.
this is how we will take the eu towards a more sustainable and secure future.
the agreement also requires a binding social and environmental clause.
perhaps we should also consider here in parliament that we talk a lot about the sustainability gap and economic issues, but perhaps we have a lack of compassion here and in the european union.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which sets out the main priorities for the future of the european union.
perhaps through these comparable and reliable demographic statistics, more and more european decision-makers will wake up to the reality of the demographic disaster that threatens europe, with the result that our welfare state is collapsing and the public sector's sustainability deficit is becoming intolerable.
when parliament voted on the future fisheries guidelines earlier this year, the result was a victory for sustainable fish stocks: the method of calculating fishing quotas was anchored to internationally accepted standards and stricter limits were set on discarded catches.
parliament must be in favour of sustainable fishing.
mr president, less than a third of the known fossil resources can be burned if we want to limit climate change to a level that societies can sustain.
this was stated by the international energy agency last autumn, and the latest ipcc report, which has just been released, confirms the same.
it must be exploited as a cultural heritage in a sustainable way and also marketed in the right way.
i only regret that the financing under the connecting europe facility is very strongly focused on transport - while only one fifth of the funding is allocated to energy networks.
one of the key issues for europe's energy future is the renewal of our continent's outdated grid structure.
in order to increase the share of renewable energy sources significantly in the coming years, a renewal of the grid structure is essential.
renewable energy will be needed to transport long distances.
to make the transition to renewable energy sources, europe needs a high-voltage, direct current grid linking the whole region, with a maximum power loss of approximately 3% for every 1000 km.
it is also important to highlight the role of culture and the creative sectors in creating smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in europe.
for the atmosphere, this means about 20 000 tonnes of co2 emissions per year.
the same emissions are generated if 10,000 finns travel to the canary islands and back every year.
we are trying to save money, but the most obvious form of waste is still going on, with more than 10% of parliament's annual budget being wasted on the provision of two seats.
mr president, the monthly pilgrimage of parliament, the pilgrimage from brussels to strasbourg, is a symbol of the eu's follies, waste of money and terrible carbon footprint.
the citizens of strasbourg think that the rally is a waste of money.
we reject the idea that the csdp should be developed towards the protection of external borders or energy security or towards cyber-defence.
the economic crisis and structural factors such as globalisation, technological progress, an ageing population and the shift towards a more energy-efficient economy are contributing to the rapid transformation of european labour markets.
to provide employment opportunities for all and to support economic competitiveness and sustainability, europe needs skilled, innovative and open-minded people.
the error rate has increased every year since 2009. the error rate for the expenditure category for rural development, fisheries and environment and health was almost 8%.
social justice is a prerequisite for putting our economy on a sustainable footing.
it is now particularly important to focus on measures to improve everyday life and to restore the climate in which democratic elections can be held.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the climate for the effective functioning of civil society must be restored and the democratic character of all political parties participating in elections must be monitored.
this argument is well illustrated by the long line of the eu's fisheries policy as a whole, which is to balance the interests of fishermen with the sustainability of fish stocks: is the livelihood of today's fishermen being driven at the expense of the future fish stocks and the livelihoods of fishermen?
this work should also be seen as part of preparing for climate change.
we still remember the collapse of the dam at the waste dump of an aluminium plant in hungary three years ago, which flooded two villages with red corrosive sludge.
this disaster too might have been prevented if the inspection of the waste-water reservoirs had been in the right hands.
mr president, on the order of votes today the list contains the resolution determining criteria when recovered paper ceases to be waste.
i propose that the resolution on the end-of-waste criteria for paper is voted after the groote report.
i am both sad and disappointed that we did not take this important decision for the eco-systems and the marine environment that would have had almost no impact on employment and the economy.
this not only increases environmental and transport problems, but also weakens the position of consumers using public transport.
mr president, the resolution states that the loss of biodiversity must be actively combated in order to protect the natural capital for the benefit of both present and future generations.
in the globalised economy, the flows of energy and materials and environmental problems are transcending national and continental boundaries.
in addition to a procurement policy that emphasises environmental sustainability, the public sector now has the opportunity to promote diverse and sustainable employment opportunities through its actions.
however, public sector action alone will not save the environment or spread good practice, but also involve businesses and consumers.