the subjects raised in the other three reports - urban redevelopment, the coordination mechanism of the funds, the impact of european funds on energy objectives - provide an opportunity for parliament to take a clear position on the future.
it finances projects for social cohesion in cities, renewable energy production in rural areas, energy efficiency in buildings, the development of smes, research or the conservation of natural resources.
it is a matter of reaffirming our commitment to stopping bio-piracy and, to do so, to defend ancestral cultures, to defend regional economies, to respect the rights of indigenous peoples and small farmers and, finally, to preserve our environment and biodiversity.
the vast majority of patents are held by the industrialized countries and we know that genetic resources are of crucial importance for sustainable agriculture and food security throughout the world.
you have understood this - and i have concluded it - and we believe that this is a real challenge for the european union, which must condemn practices that are contrary to our commitment to combating poverty and preserving biodiversity.
the aim here is to mobilise cohesion funds and thus contribute to economic recovery in these areas through projects related to energy efficiency in buildings, waste management, migration and population ageing.
i believe that energy efficiency in buildings, migration and the ageing of the population are all issues that need to be addressed by cohesion policy.
by voting on the report on urban redevelopment as a vehicle for economic growth, the european parliament, to which i belong, wanted to express its concern about the effects of the economic and social crisis which are affecting our cities and to propose guidelines for combating exclusion and precariousness, unemployment, energy poverty and ageing populations.
above all, the urban dimension must be addressed in a comprehensive and integrated approach involving all relevant actors and addressing urban planning as well as transport, infrastructure, economic development, social cohesion and the environment in order to make urban renewal a tangible contribution to the economic revitalization of european cities.
he is calling for action on pollution, noise and congestion, which i support.
i welcome the fact that our assembly is addressing this problem and proposing ways of rethinking urban planning in the light of the needs in terms of economic, social, territorial cohesion and sustainability.
improving energy efficiency, sustainable mobility from city centres to the outskirts, and a pleasant living environment are all responses to fully adapting the union's urban policy to the challenges of the 21st century.
but this cannot be done by will alone, and i welcome the decision to allocate 5% of the erdf to actions for sustainable urban development, which will be managed directly by the cities, which guarantees strategies adapted to the specificities and needs.
this is essential to ensure that the funds support useful and sustainable territorial development projects, which are drivers of growth and economic and social cohesion.
the report supports the rehabilitation of pirates in the horn of africa, sanctions for illegal dumping of waste by eu companies on the coast and condemns any support for irregular armed groups.
i also denounce the blind support for the grand renaissance dam project on the blue nile, on which no valid environmental expertise has been carried out.
i would remind you that in order to enter into force, this protocol adopted at the united nations conference on biodiversity in october 2010 must be ratified by at least 50 countries.
but this patent system goes far beyond ensuring the protection of the rights of indigenous peoples and local communities and helping to protect a biodiversity that promotes the eradication of extreme poverty and hunger.
this report warns of the major ecological and social problem of bio-piracy.
the natural resources of the various species, are crucial for sustainable agriculture and food security.
their diversity is essential for the survival of species and the resilience of the ecosystem.
it is not sustainable and the growth needed to restore employment is not yet there.
an essential feature of the blueprint is the sequencing and requirements for further steps towards deeper economic and political integration and these steps include important initiatives to promote sustainable growth and jobs for citizens, including a specific financial instrument to support economic reforms in member states.
completing the single market, removing those barriers to business, increasing trading opportunities, improving competitiveness are all critical in improving the environment for jobs and the opportunity for economies to grow.
in june 2012, the euro area heads of state and government determined and made a decision to sever the toxic link between banking and sovereign debt as well as improving specifically, and referring to it, the sustainability of our own country’s adjustment programme.
we all know that there is very important and difficult work to do to achieve the goal of sustainable growth, and i underline sustainable because we have seen in the past that artificial growth fuelled by irresponsible public or private debt is simply not viable.
our relations with these countries are a reminder that our trade policy, indeed all our external economic policy from assistance to energy, transport to research, is not just vital for our economic interests but for europe’s capacity to play a significant, constructive role at the global level.
and, as i have often said, europe needs sustainable growth.
finally, i am a member of the committee on industry, research and energy and i thank you, mr prime minister, for the announcements made on the pan-european fibre optic research project.
i voted for this new calendar because concentrating two plenary sessions in one week was neither sustainable nor credible.
i would like to remind you, however, that the green group has long been calling for a real debate on the two seats (brussels and strasbourg) leading to real proposals to reduce the financial and environmental cost of travel to and from strasbourg.
i voted in favour of this text as it complements the european commitment to the environment.
europe showed its commitment as early as 2004 with the environmental liability directive.
but i am particularly sensitive to the inclusion of the notion of environmental risk in credit ratings: despite the crisis, we are not forgetting our commitments to the protection of our environment.
this text thus allows for the taking into account of several specific features of artisanal fishing, while respecting the requirements linked to the sustainable exploitation of this resource.
supported by studies showing that stocks in the region are sufficient, parliament's response is above all sustainable and inclusive.
i voted in favour of this report which amends the multiannual baltic cod management plan as it aims to make it more effective in the sustainable management of cod stocks.
i voted in favour of this report, which aims to better combine environmental interests with the requirements of minimum economic viability, in order to allow small-scale fishermen to carry out their activity with fewer restrictions.
it lays the foundations for a better ecological status of the resource.
it is important to define the rules to be respected, the areas, the fishing techniques and the gear that can be used throughout the european union in order to guarantee selective and sustainable fishing.
this text makes recommendations on how cohesion policy could better support the implementation of the eu's and its regions' new energy priorities.
in the forthcoming multiannual financial framework, the european commission has for the first time allocated substantial resources to the energy sector under the european regional development fund.
i voted in favour of this text allowing 'at least 50% of the funds to be used for investments in the low carbon economy'.
it seems important to me to make clear recommendations on how cohesion policy can support the implementation of the eu's new energy priorities.
i am convinced that european energy projects will help to create more jobs.
cohesion funds can be an important lever in the realisation of the single energy market.
cooperation between our territories must also be possible in this area, to enable the development of crossborder energy infrastructure and networks, to finance energy efficiency and renewable energy.
i particularly welcome the efficiency approach adopted in this report: where energy policy and cohesion policy complement and even reinforce each other, we must know how to make use of these synergies for the success of the common market, our energy security and the well-being of europeans.
if the cohesion fund is used to finance energy projects, we must ensure that they contribute to the cohesion objectives we have set ourselves.
the transition to a low-carbon economy is an important objective, which must allow the development of our regions, which have different characteristics and therefore different needs.
the aim of this report is to highlight the role that cohesion policy can play in the new european energy strategy (energy 2020 and the roadmap to 2050).
the rapporteur therefore wished cohesion policy to support not only renewable energy but also other sources such as shale gas.
the report also calls for funding for energy efficiency projects at the expense of renewable energy projects.
i voted in favour of this resolution, which, while recalling that the eu's cohesion programme should not replace energy policy, makes sensible recommendations to support the new energy priorities of the eu and its regions through cohesion policy.
the european commission has allocated significant financial resources to the energy sector under the european regional development fund, 50% of which will be used to invest in the low-carbon economy.
this resolution highlights the potential of energy projects to promote regional development and create many jobs, particularly through investments in decentralised energy sources and the expansion of energy infrastructure.
energy projects supported under the european regional development fund will, however, first have to respect the objectives of cohesion policy, namely to contribute to regional development and to reduce differences between regions.
i voted against the report on the role of eu cohesion policy in implementing the new european energy policy.
this report, which was almost rejected in committee, provides for liberalisation of the energy sector, which means that the member states are relieved of their responsibility for implementing a sustainable and sound energy policy.
the agreement also provides ample opportunities for enhanced cooperation on sectoral policies across the board, from energy and environment to education and innovation.
let me stress the example of energy, where the eu can help iraq to harness its enormous energy potential, while iraq can contribute to the diversification of the eu’s energy supply and to its energy security as it is a potential source country for the southern corridor.
its 'trade and significant investment' component lays the foundations for a sustainable and mutually beneficial economic relationship within the wto framework, as iraq requested in 2004. above all, it encourages the country to make new efforts and to undertake new reforms, because, despite all the obstacles, iraq is well on the way to democracy.
victims of such breaches of social or environmental legislation, victims of the non-compliance by multinationals, to the detriment of their immediate subsidiaries, with the principles of corporate social responsibility, should be able to bring cases before the courts of the country where the breach has occurred.
we will propose legislation on non-financial transparency during the first quarter of 2013. companies will be held accountable for their actions in the areas of social inclusion, social responsibility and the environment.
i think i can say on their behalf that they agree and will agree, mr caspary, to start thinking, with their teams and departments, and to propose effective, sustainable and rapid follow-up actions.
it is important to point out, from the council’s perspective, that we are committed to using trade incentives as a means of encouraging beneficiary countries to respect the key international human and labour rights, environmental protection standards and governance principles – in particular, as i mentioned in my introductory remarks, through the eu gsp+ framework.
so, rather than repeating what has already been said, i just want to say that we have touched in our discussions today on a range of ways of promoting effective links between trade, labour and the environment.
the 'made in' does not answer all the questions about social dumping, environmental dumping or other subjects, but it is a reference tool and it is a tool that allows you to be, again, an actor in your life.
i voted in favour of this agreement, which provides a general basis for strengthening links and cooperation in many areas such as political issues, the fight against terrorism and the promotion of human rights, trade and investment in key areas such as energy and services.
i voted in favour of this agreement, which provides a general basis for strengthening links and cooperation in many areas such as political issues, the fight against terrorism and the promotion of human rights, trade and investment in key areas such as energy and services.
the aim is to accelerate the exchange of goods and services, particularly energy resources.
i voted in favour of this resolution because it is the first agreement of its kind with an african region and will enable the countries concerned to promote their economies, their sustainable development and to reduce poverty.
to allow a balanced development of our partners, this agreement will make our relations clearer and stronger, to the benefit of a strengthened and calmer business and investment climate.
according to the cotonou agreement, sustainable development must be at the heart of epas.
it does not contain any chapter on sustainable development, respect for labour standards and environmental protection.
moreover, the agreement contains no mention of sustainable development, respect for workers' rights and trade union rights, nor does it contain any provision on human rights.
in the face of such tragedies, the eu cannot remain silent, which is why i support the call for the establishment of a system of transnational legal cooperation between the european union and third countries that are signatories to bilateral trade agreements, so that victims of breaches of social or environmental legislation or of non-compliance by multinationals and their immediate subsidiaries with the principles of corporate social responsibility (csr) or fair trade practices can effectively bring cases before the courts of the country where the breach has occurred, and i support the establishment of international judicial procedures that allow, where appropriate, to sanction companies that break the law.
however, any trade negotiations must give priority to sustainable development, job creation, social justice, the environment and cultural diversity in both the mercosur region and the union.
moreover, as regards the posei scheme, the entry into force of the new regulation will allow member states to grant additional aid to banana producers in the outermost regions in 2013 to help them strengthen the sector, making it more competitive and sustainable in the face of changing market conditions.
the insularity, the remoteness, the climate, the dependence on too few products make their farmers particularly vulnerable.
we must also bear in mind that this sector is facing competition from neighbouring countries where, in most cases, wages are much lower and social, environmental and health standards are much less stringent than our own standards, which too often creates unfair competition.
the funds obtained will help to support the technical, environmental, social and food security objectives of the sustainable development plan for these outermost regions.
the defence of a sustainable and innovative model has been at the heart of our action on this text.
meeting local food needs must become a priority of a sustainable and supportive agricultural policy.
i am therefore pleased that several of my proposals have been incorporated into the text and voted on by the committee on the environment.
it is a victim of its weaknesses: too european and not global a market, a sensitivity to fluctuations in raw materials, too high costs compared with competitors and increasing environmental constraints.
there are huge needs in sustainable development, and they must be met.
in the not too distant future we want to see fishing activity in the european union, and indeed outside the european union where our fleets have a relationship, that is sustainable and conducted to maximum sustainable yield (msy) levels.
we want to see an end to the discarding of fish, which is indefensible, and we want to do that in a real and pragmatic way that can bring the industry with us, as well as satisfying all others that are watching and concerned about what we have not done in the past and need to do in the future to ensure that we have a sustainable management of fish stocks that can protect fish in the sea but also can protect rural, coastal and fishing communities that rely for their living and their income on a fishing industry.
we now need to find a pragmatic way forward as politicians, as policy makers and as people who have the trust of the population across the european union who expect and want a real modernisation of fishing that can allow sustainable fishing practices into the future.
if we stop over-fishing and bring the stocks back to sustainability, then everybody will profit from it.
it will benefit not only the environment, not only stocks, it will be the best for all of us – and i am not talking in terms of only the commission or only one political party here.
the reduction of catches is therefore an ecological imperative, but it is also an economic imperative.
we want the reform of the common fisheries policy to be sustainable from an environmental point of view, but also from a social and economic point of view.
as part of this reform, we want to maintain stocks at maximum sustainable yield so that we can provide quality fish for future generations.
environmental considerations are good and necessary.
have we forgotten the other two pillars of the tripod of sustainable development: the social pillar and the economic pillar?
by adopting amendment no 15, we will choose the path of reason and the path that truly leads to sustainability.
there will be no rest until we define an energy transition capable of taking us from one world to another.
integration is our new financial instrument for launching innovative projects in the fields of new technologies, renewable energy, energy transition and ecology.
the common policy is the agricultural policy, which makes it possible to strengthen an agro-food industry which is valuable to the european union, but which must also respect the environment.
my second principle is that the budget, the financial framework to be proposed, must extend the growth pact adopted last june, which means increasing the funds earmarked for innovation, infrastructure and new energy sources.
(applause) i would like to thank europe must also play its part in the climate challenge.
france is ready to host the climate conference in 2015, but we will not succeed alone.
europe, again, must be an example in renewable energy and energy efficiency.
to ensure that growth is sustainable, we also need investment, and the most important instrument we have for investment at european level is precisely the european budget.
(applause) i would like to thank if you really want to make an energy europe, a europe of renewable energy, a europe where by 2030 france will have binding renewable energy targets, all the environmentalists in europe will say: "françois is with us and we are with him!"
today, what we expect from you is that you will utter a taboo word in this chamber, a taboo word in the confined environment where the bankers and the markets, the business community and the big profiteers of savage globalization meet: it is the word referendum.
(applause) i would like to thank but could we not make the european energy community today and for the next 50 years, where we would put in place the instruments for energy efficiency, the development of renewable energy and less dependence on fossil fuels?
and finally, i am prepared to accept a reduction in direct aid, but also by having a second pillar, rural development, which would allow all agriculture to be supported by the european union in this way - and i said it well, with rules on respect for the environment, because i know some countries that now want to call into question the greening of agricultural policy, whereas this has been progress, both for agriculture and for the european union.
is it not high time to try to change the role of the european central bank and to transform the european stability mechanism into a fund for social, human and ecological development, with the activation of a new credit, instead of the flexibility of work, the reduction of wages and the destruction of our public services?
the european energy community, it is being sacrificed right now in this budget by connecting europe and all the renewable energy infrastructure.
we want a europe which decides on a substantial budget - alain lamassoure will speak about this again - on a clean resource, on a real energy policy, on our industrial independence, on monetary issues, foreign policy or defence.
the rapporteur calls for a review of these, incorporating measures to protect the environment, increase the agricultural dimension of tourism and strengthen agricultural infrastructure in the region.
in addition, they are weakened by close competition from regions with less stringent social, environmental and health standards than in the european union.
references are made to climate resilience, sustainable production methods (land rotation versus monoculture), reducing the excessive use of fertilisers, local production and short-circuits.
this report provides for adjustments to the posei measures of the common agricultural policy, which compensate for the additional cost of transporting certain agricultural products to remote areas of small size, difficult terrain or climate.
i also regret that no conditions relating to employment, farm size and environmental considerations are mentioned in the text.
this development must be accompanied by respect for the environment and the preservation of the biodiversity of these regions.
i voted in favour of the philippe de backer report, which agrees that the economic success, excellence and cohesion of the european union will depend to a large extent on sustainable growth and job creation which rely on smes.
the rest is just calls for deregulation and investor privileges, without the social or environmental counterpart proposed by the european commission.
in the light of this commission proposal, we would like to remind you that we support the european commission in its approach to asking the member states to increase the sustainability and balance of their public finances, i.e.
we must meet the challenge of sustainable growth and employment, as the french president also stressed this morning.
constant discussion and improvement of its implementation have shown many times that it is possible to have sustainable trade and also to attain the objectives of the convention if all parties apply the rules and accept necessary restrictions.
secondly, the proposals seek to translate within cites some of the outcomes of the rio+20 summit last year with regard to the kind of institutions we want in order to achieve sustainable development.
the presidency, together with the commission and the member states, is determined to play an active role in ensuring that cites continues to be an effective tool, in order to attain its two main objectives: conservation and sustainable management of our natural resources.
we are therefore prepared to conduct the upcoming deliberations in a spirit of cooperation, mutual understanding and shared interest in the protection of species threatened by trade, in order to maintain a diverse environment for our future generations.
it is my dream that the environment commissioner will some day be part of the debate on the european semester, because you will certainly recall that in the treaty – i think it is chapter 3 – it says that sustainable development consists of three pillars.
these are the economic, social and environmental pillars, and the european semester is definitely the story of sustainable development for europe in the future.
it is widely seen as a very effective tool for the protection of biodiversity and promotion of sustainable trade.
today no clear regime exists to ensure that such trade is sustainable.
this would put cites more in line with what one expects of an international convention on the environment in the 21st century.
failure to comply with cites requirements does not only result in biodiversity loss but also represents a loss of income for legally operating actors and for government authorities.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora plays a central role in the conservation of biodiversity.
cites shows that environmental requirements can be combined without compromising economic needs.
in the face of the collapse of biodiversity on all continents, it is urgent to ensure that the 16th conference of the parties, to be held in bangkok in march, is up to the challenge.
the european union must maintain its leading role in the conservation of biodiversity and, above all, train its partners in this direction.
i could mention, for example, perenco, a franco-british company which is exploiting oil in northern guatemala, with catastrophic health, environmental and social consequences, or areva in niger.
unlike environmental standards, social standards are not measurable scientifically.
for several years now i have been campaigning for csr to have a social dimension equal to or greater than its environmental component.
today it is certainly investors, but above all our fellow citizens, who want to be able to identify companies which are working to improve their working conditions and their environment.
first, csr can become an effective tool for monitoring the activities of enterprises and this monitoring is essential to the achievement of the commission's objectives of building a more inclusive society and initiating a transition towards a sustainable economy.
it also recommends that firms should provide more systematic information on their social and environmental activities.
companies are not exposed to any sanctions and are randomly tracking their social and environmental responsibility.
in the period of crisis in the european automobile industry, it seemed to me crucial to give manufacturers sufficient time to adapt to the many european environmental laws.
the european automobile industry is undoubtedly in favour of technological developments which could reduce the noise pollution emitted by motor vehicles.
nevertheless, this reduction in noise pollution must be done in a pragmatic spirit, which does not call into question the fundamental economic-industrial balance in this period of major crisis in europe.
a sustainable european strategy will inevitably require the pooling of research on the fuel-efficient car, the management of conversions and fairer trade.
we are in a realistic, constructive and responsible environment.
the union needs to be endowed with sustainable own resources as a matter of urgency.
this text emphasises the central role of employment in the europe 2020 strategy to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth with high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion.
in line with the europe 2020 strategy to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth with a high level of employment, productivity and social cohesion, the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides for the adoption by the council of broad economic policy guidelines and employment guidelines.
it is important to remember that the pillar of sustainable development has three pillars.
the environmental pillar, of course, but also the economic pillar and the social pillar.
the objectives are the same for everyone, from the legislator to the fisherman, which is why the legislator cannot offer a sustainable future to the fisherman if it is opposed to his present.
for the first time, environmental issues are fully taken into account, and i am pleased about that.
particular attention has been paid to the sustainability of the resource by ensuring that stocks can be renewed.
the good philosophy that is now emerging from this common policy clearly shows a path towards a more sustainable fisheries in europe.
this text should have respected the balance between the necessary renewal of the resource and the sustainability of european fisheries activities which contribute to our food self-sufficiency.
the commission is trying to impose on a profession already weakened by foreign imports the fisheries policies dictated by an ideological and technocratic vision that opens the door to social, environmental and health dumping.
the principle of maximum sustainable yield will further reduce the number of fishermen in the fishing industry, which will further destabilise coastal regions.
as we know, overfishing destroys the marine environment and poses a serious threat to the populations that depend on fishing.
financing increasingly efficient boats with incentives to fish more and more, short-term interest, centralised management, waste of almost a quarter of the total european catch.
the aim is to exploit fisheries resources in the spirit of 'maximum sustainable yield', to avoid bycatch, to give aid to sustainable practices and to bring fisheries management closer to the ground.
today's vote is a step towards a virtuous cfp, in its economic, social and environmental dimensions, which benefits everyone.
this text paves the way towards a more sustainable fisheries in europe focusing on traditional, small-scale, artisanal and coastal fishing techniques.
we must support sustainable fishing to preserve our fisheries resources.
the actions undertaken by the profession over the years to promote sustainable fishing are a remarkable step forward and demonstrate its commitment to exploiting resources in a sustainable way.
while the cfp needs to be reformed to make it more sustainable, the final position of the text seems to me problematic.
the need to respect fishing quotas in the context of maximum sustainable yield (msy) is undeniable.
moreover, as regards the practice of discarding at sea, the obligation to land all catches will not make it possible to combat this waste.
while it is essential to combat overfishing and to restore the fish stocks on which the future of our fisheries depends, the report presented contained, in my view, a dangerous imbalance between environmental and socio-economic considerations.
by significantly increasing the environmental constraints on fisheries and implementing them within such tight deadlines, the rodust report simply proposes the death knell for the sector.
under the guise of good intentions, such as zero waste, and under pressure from the environmental lobbies, the european parliament has given in to demagogy and shown its total ignorance of the realities of this profession and the constraints it already faces.
this report, which purports to advocate a balance between the sustainability of fisheries resources and the economic and social sustainability of the fisheries sector, is in fact a radical and ideological reform.
it confirms the implementation of the maximum sustainable yield and its postponement to 2020. it establishes a multiannual fisheries management system which is coordinated by all the players in the sector and which is in line with the best scientific advice, a provision which will make it easier for fisheries undertakings to read the text.
it takes account of the social and economic viability of fisheries activities and endorses the introduction of sustainable aquaculture and shellfish farming in the cfp.
fleet modernisation planning is needed to enable selective, sustainable and safer fishing for seafarers.
this is a major issue for the protection of biodiversity and the sustainability of the fisheries sector, which parliament has taken fully into account.
the report is a real breakthrough in environmental matters.
i voted against the proposal for a regulation on the common fisheries policy, because despite the progress made in committee, this text did not strike the right balance between the need to renew resources and the sustainability of european fisheries, which is part of our food self-sufficiency.
i particularly regret that the maximum sustainable yield (msy), a tool that allows scientifically to measure what can be fished without jeopardising the renewal of the resource, has been over-emphasised, leading to the aim of 'beyond' msy by 2020, a vague and arbitrary notion.
finally, i regret that parliament has approved the compulsory landing of all waste, a job-destroying measure which will legalise the marketing of waste processed into animal flour.
there were better ways of eliminating waste and keeping it alive, through increased selectivity of gear, modernisation of ships and their technologies, management plans.
the ball is in the council's court, whose delays raise fears that a real reform of the cfp will be postponed until 2020.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am of course in favour of measures which will help to protect public health and the environment by reducing the noise level of motor vehicles.
we all know that noise pollution is a source of stress, anxiety and even illness, and that it is a matter of concern to many of our citizens.
millions of europeans suffer daily from noise pollution from motor vehicles.
i voted in favour of the report by mr ouzký, which supports the commission's proposal on the fight against noise emissions from motor vehicles, particularly for the population in urban areas.
of course, we must not ignore technology and productivity: in the period of crisis in the european automobile industry, it seemed crucial to us socialists to give manufacturers sufficient time to adapt to the many environmental laws.
we refuse to set unrealistic environmental targets: we do not want to sacrifice our jobs when there is a middle way that does not endanger our health.
the european parliament wants a realistic reduction in noise emissions, for a europe that protects its citizens, their health and their jobs.
legislation was therefore needed to further limit the noise pollution caused by motor vehicles.
by also looking at the quality of road surfaces, aerodynamics and tyres, the european union is promoting a balanced approach to reduce noise production, noise pollution and to preserve the quality of life of people living in urban areas, but also in favour of the automobile market players.
i understand the interest in lowering the maximum decibel thresholds for different categories of vehicles, because noise pollution can poison the lives of city dwellers in particular.
vehicle noise emissions also depend on road surfaces, tyre noise and aerodynamics.
half of the european population living in urban areas is exposed to noise emissions from traffic above 55 decibels.
although these elements seem to me to be positive, it also seems to me important to pay some attention to the road surface, the noise of the tyres and the aerodynamics of the vehicles, which have an impact on their noise emissions.
noise pollution is a public health issue.
one of the main sources of noise pollution is urban traffic, which exposes half of the european urban population to noise levels above 55 db.
i therefore supported the commission's proposal for a directive to limit noise emissions from motor vehicles.
these are rules that fishermen must observe every day when they go out to sea to ensure that the way and place of fishing is sustainable.
the aim is to encourage the use of more selective fishing gear in order to protect the marine environment.
technical conservation measures are rules to be observed daily by fishermen throughout the european union to ensure that the manner and location of fishing activity meet the criteria of sustainable development.
the main points are as follows: - maximum sustainable yield: from 2015 onwards, no more should be fished than a given stock can produce in a given year - stocks should thus be restored by 2020.
the work on this transitional text has thus made it possible to put the cfp debates in perspective with reality and to ask the question of the implementation of many of the measures proposed in the reform, which are beautiful on paper but whose feasibility in everyday life is questionable, such as the compulsory landing of waste, for example.
i believe that this very strong message, sent by the population, must be today the positive energy that allows the actors to transcend their quarrels and, sometimes, their hatred of the past.
madam president, commissioner, madam representative of the council, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the next climate conference, called cop-19, will be held in warsaw, poland, in november and december 2013. this conference will be crucial.
the last climate conference, in doha in december 2012, achieved only modest results, even though the stakes are high.
few would argue against the urgency of tackling climate change.
the consequences are many and dangerous - human, economic and ecological.
the european union has maintained its global environmental leadership and has not waited for its partners to act.
let us face it, sooner or later, all of us, without exception, will have to deal with climate change, which is an inescapable reality of the coming decades.
i have many other things to say to you, but what i want to say, commissioner, is that the european union must reform its ets system to have an effective climate policy.
as you recalled, commissioner, in lille last week, where we were together in a debate on adaptation to climate change, only 14 member states have a national strategy for adaptation to climate change.
for greater efficiency, all initiatives on climate change should adopt a transnational perspective to better identify the financing needs of each state, especially with a view to the establishment of a green fund, the financial contribution of which by the contributing states should be specified.
we're starting to live in a changed climate.
that our territory be protected from social, environmental and fiscal dumping, which only serves the interests of the richest.
i welcome the emphasis on the relationship between people and the environment and the need for regions and cities to adapt to the needs and capacities of their ageing populations.
the aim is to promote healthy ageing everywhere, as analyses have clearly demonstrated the interaction between place and person, the influence of conditions in the immediate and more distant environment on how people age.
this initiative brings together public and private actors, who are committed to achieving results to improve the health and quality of life of older people and to strengthen the sustainability and efficiency of health systems.
the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora plays a central role in the conservation of biodiversity.
it is important that the european union maintains its global leadership in the field of the environment, and this requires, in particular, ambitious targets for the preservation of biodiversity.
preserving wild fauna and flora is not only a requirement for our environment, it is also about ensuring that our future generations have a diverse and rich planet.
the eu member states must become aware of these biodiversity challenges by increasing their financial contribution.
as rapporteur for the 7th eu environment action programme, i attach particular importance to the protection of natural capital and the preservation of biodiversity in the eu and globally.
i therefore welcome the resolution adopted by the european parliament in view of the 16th conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora to be held in bangkok from 3 to 14 march 2013. in particular, the union is invited to strengthen the protection of marine biodiversity by including certain shark species in annex ii.
while european citizens are still suffering the effects of the crisis, the reports by richard howitt and raffaele baldassarre are a reminder that europe's recovery must be sustainable.
since the new economic regulations act 2001 large companies have been required to publish social and environmental information in their annual reports.
we have just sent a strong signal to the commission to effectively implement its 2014-2020 csr strategy, to governments to promote csr through legal or tax incentives, and to business leaders to dare to set ambitious social and environmental standards regardless of the size of their structure.
corporate social responsibility, which means the voluntary integration by companies of social and environmental concerns into their business activities, should guide european companies in their activities, especially abroad, and especially when investing in countries where social and environmental standards are less stringent than in europe.
in a context of intensive exploitation of natural resources in the south, there are many examples of abusive behaviour by european companies in the extractive industry, with the dramatic health, social and environmental consequences we know.
in other words, concerns and values in the social, environmental and ethical fields are no longer the preserve of large companies but extend to the business world as a whole, as the actions and activities of companies have a direct and indirect impact on society.
we must encourage our companies to respect social, environmental and ethical principles and values, and we must support them in this process, not impose on them an additional burden which would ultimately lead to a lack of confidence in europe and harm their competitiveness.
i decided to abstain on the report on corporate social responsibility, transparent behaviour and sustainable growth.
while european citizens are still suffering the effects of the crisis, the reports by richard howitt and raffaele baldassarre are a reminder that europe's recovery must be sustainable.
since the new economic regulations act 2001 large companies have been required to publish social and environmental information in their annual reports.
csr helps to mitigate the social effects of the current economic crisis by providing a set of values towards a sustainable economic system.
we have just sent a strong signal to the commission to effectively implement its 2014-2020 csr strategy, to governments to promote csr through legal or tax incentives, and to business leaders to dare to set ambitious social and environmental standards regardless of the size of their structure.
corporate social responsibility, which means the voluntary integration by companies of social and environmental concerns into their business activities should guide european companies in their activities, including abroad, especially when investing in countries where social and environmental standards are less stringent than in europe.
in a context of intensive exploitation of natural resources in the south, there are many examples of abusive behaviour by european companies in the extractive industry, with the dramatic health, social and environmental consequences we know.
companies must start a process to integrate social, environmental, ethical, human rights and consumer concerns into their activities.
the vote of our assembly shows that the concept of 'corporate social responsibility' (csr) is not a dirty word, but must be seen as a catalogue of best practices in social and environmental matters, to guarantee jobs and sustainable growth for our companies.
this is part of our objectives to combat social disintegration and environmental degradation, in order to promote the sustainability of entrepreneurship in europe.
the alde group has voted in favour to give a clear signal: the recognition in the ags 2013 that sustainable growth is needed in strict compliance with the six-pack.
recognised as one of the main elements in support of growth and employment, the single market must be the basis for the restoration of europe's competitiveness and stimulate sustainable growth.
the ep also calls for a "zero tolerance policy towards member states that do not apply the single market rules properly", the establishment of the necessary mechanisms "for member states to apply the eu's social recommendations", and "reforms to ensure the sustainability of pension schemes".
it proposes a coherent framework for the governance of the single market, based on objectives and priorities addressed to member states on cross-cutting issues, such as better transposition of single market legislation, or specific issues, such as the services sector, the digital agenda, energy, transport networks and consumer protection.
otherwise, there is a great risk of promoting development and growth that would be neither sustainable, nor inclusive, nor balanced.
these countries are of vital diplomatic importance to our international objectives, for example in the fight against climate change.
the globalisation of trade, new environmental challenges and the risks of climate change are all new issues that they are facing directly.
due to their physical characteristics, the octs face a number of challenges linked to the fragility of their environment and the need to firmly anchor the environmental pillar of sustainable development.
in addition, areas of cooperation for sustainable development could include competitiveness and refer to community programmes on innovation, research and enterprise.
mr president, the difficult climate we are living in today is that of a europe under the pressure of blind austerity, marked by the breakdown of the social bond.
however, as regards the eligibility of projects of common interest for eu financial assistance in the context of trans-european energy infrastructures, the commission would like to state that it considers it important that the support from the eu and national sources extends to grants for works to enable the implementation of projects of common interest, enhancing the diversification of energy supply sources, routes and counterparts.
the commission reserves the right to make proposals in this direction based on the experience gained from the monitoring and foreseen in article 16 of the regulation on guidelines for trans-european energy infrastructures.
european energy policy must ensure that european citizens have sustainable, secure and affordable energy.
in the face of insufficient integration of the internal energy market, the commission has proposed bold lines for the future of this policy, with particular emphasis on competitiveness, security of supply, sustainability and decarbonisation.
the eu's energy and climate policy is a great way to boost economic growth through job creation and the investments it underpins.
the new regulation thus encourages the modernisation and interconnection of energy networks.
in this it defines a moderate number of transeuropean priority corridors and areas covering electricity, gas, oil and carbon dioxide transport networks.
i voted in favour of the proposal to ensure the completion of strategic energy networks by 2020, through energy corridors and priority areas for electricity, gas and other transmission networks.
at present, energy infrastructure works are very slow and expensive.
in voting in favour of the correia de campos report, i want to stress the importance of developing energy interconnections in europe.
by strengthening the single market, reducing costs and ensuring energy independence for the european union, this report will have very positive practical implications for european citizens.
this report will help to accelerate the development of transeuropean energy infrastructures.
for our energy security, and for a reliable and affordable energy supply for all europeans, we must now create the infrastructure needed to complete the single energy market.
the aim of this text is to put an end to these barriers, which are slowing down the establishment of a genuine european energy market.
the purpose of this text is to define 12 priority corridors for energy supplies between member states.
if i can support energy supply infrastructure projects aimed at ensuring greater solidarity between member states and more efficient energy management, i am opposed to the way in which these corridors are adopted, even though they are presented by the commission as 'projects of common interest'.
these projects are aimed at speeding up the completion of the internal energy market and are therefore fully in line with the liberalisation of the sector.
our union is a union of projects, of which trans-european energy infrastructures are prominent.
i am therefore pleased that our parliament has seized the opportunity to create the conditions for modernising our existing network, whose efficiency is hampered by fragmentation, environmental footprint and physical deficiencies.
i supported this regulation, which in particular adapts the trans-european energy network to the challenges of the europe 2020 strategy: interconnection, interoperability, energy security, sustainability, economic, social and territorial cohesion.
the aim is to achieve a single european energy area based on sustainable, high-quality transnational infrastructures, sources of growth, jobs and competitiveness.
there are many needs, especially if you want to deploy infrastructure to support the development of renewable energy, but you have to focus on the most strategic projects, setting priorities that will avoid the waste of public and private funds.
this is essential if we want to have a future energy network and make europe a world leader in energy.
as a full member of the committee on petitions, i had already voted in favour of this report, which highlights the limitations of the 'environmental impact assessment' during the 1999 extension of vienna airport.
the most important point discussed in this case is not the failure to carry out the environmental impact assessment, but the way in which it was carried out ex post facto by the authorities.
i agree with the ombudsman when he points out the need for more transparency and dialogue between the authorities and local people in the context of such major construction works with such an impact on the environment.
the aim is to eventually bring the sector within the european target of a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, in particular to meet international requirements such as those of the kyoto protocol.
we have ensured that the integration of this sector into the eu's wider climate policy does not lead to administrative burdens for member states and the private sector.
i voted in favour of the compromise on accounting rules and action plans for greenhouse gas emissions and removals from land use, land use change and forestry activities.
it was imperative for the eu to establish a harmonised legislative framework of accounting rules in line with the decisions recently adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change.
this is a strong signal that parliament has sent in the fight against climate change, alongside the horizon 2020 programme.
we are committed to accounting for our greenhouse gas emissions in the most comprehensive and appropriate way possible.
if we are to meet our obligations to reduce emissions without penalising our farmers and operators, we must ensure that the accounting rules we use are fair and effective.
thanks to this report, the forest is finally recognised as an actor in the fight against climate change; that is why i voted in favour of this text.
parliament has abolished an exception to the kyoto protocol on the accounting for carbon stored in wood products.
the kyoto protocol considered that cutting down a tree was equivalent to releasing carbon dioxide into the atmosphere in the form of a greenhouse gas.
let's not forget that every cubic meter of wood stores 0.9 tons of co2, not counting the co2 saved compared to other more energy-intensive materials.
it complements previous legislation (this sector was excluded when the energy-climate package was adopted in 2009 and was not part of the eu's 20% greenhouse gas emission reduction target for 2030), it is the subject of an interinstitutional consensus and it does not create additional obligations for professionals (for farmers or for foresters).
i voted in favour of this report, whose main objective is to progressively integrate land use, land use change and forestry (lulucf) into the union's overall climate policy, as it will ensure an appropriate accounting framework while avoiding additional administrative burdens for member states and the private sector.
i welcome the european commission's proposal to introduce binding accounting rules on greenhouse gas emissions and removals in the forestry and agriculture sectors, which is not customary.
i denounce the fact that the parliamentary committee on the environment proposes to exempt companies from any accounting or reporting obligations.
this decision will allow for the partial accounting of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions from agricultural activities, land use change and forestry.
this will not help unless this is accompanied by the development and implementation by member states of action plans to reduce and better absorb ghg emissions.
this text is a step in the right direction, also because it gives the eu a mandate to include these ghg emissions in international negotiations on global warming.
i voted for it because it is an instrument to put pressure on the member states and to enable concrete action to be taken in the fight against climate change.
the fight against climate change is an unquestionable imperative of the 21st century: the european parliament has understood this and is working on it, including in this report, which i fully support.
up-to-date, reliable and accurate greenhouse gas emissions data are essential to measure the progress of the eu and states towards achieving international targets.
this data is fundamental to the development of new, robust and sustainable climate policies.
it was therefore time to look at improving the transposition into european law of the commitments made by the european union and the member states in terms of monitoring greenhouse gas emissions.
this report proposes progress in this area, by helping member states to implement the necessary climate and energy package.
i have decided to vote in favour of this report, which extends the scope of the commission's proposal and strengthens the various aspects of monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gases.
i voted in favour of the new mechanism for monitoring greenhouse gases and for reporting climate change information at national and european level.
i support this balanced text, which maintains a high level of ambition for our greenhouse gas emission reduction targets.
it provides a solid basis for the continuation of our policy to combat climate change and for the european union to continue to play its leading role in this field.
in addition, the inclusion of our space tools in the text is also a good thing: our satellite data are essential tools to improve the monitoring of our emissions, and i support the idea in the text that the data provided by gmes/copernicus should be used to the best possible advantage.
mitigating climate change is a priority.
the european union must take active action on the issue of climate change and thus follow up on the international commitments it has made in this area, particularly in the framework of the kyoto protocol.
that is why i supported this text, which allows for a revision and improvement of the mechanism for monitoring greenhouse gas emissions.
the new rules adopted today will strengthen the method of accounting for greenhouse gas emissions and the way they are reported by member states.
this is a fundamental step forward in ensuring the environmental integrity of the european union's (eu) climate policies.
member states will now have to report annually on their overall climate contributions, which is crucial for the eu's credibility in international climate negotiations.
governments will be required to report on policies adopted to meet the eu's long-term climate goals and commitments to reduce emissions by 2050. for the accuracy and integrity of emissions reduction efforts, the omission of the mention of wetlands is regrettable, but the inclusion of cultivated land management in the accounting is a real step forward.
this text will review the monitoring mechanism and thus improve the existing system in order to better comply with the commitments and obligations entered into by the european union and the member states under current and future international agreements on climate change, to meet the legal requirements arising from the climate and energy package, and to facilitate the development of instruments at union level to mitigate and adapt to climate change.
i welcome the fact that my colleagues on the environment committee have reaffirmed the eu's commitment to comply with the greenhouse gas emission reductions recommended by the intergovernmental panel on climate change.
i welcome the desire to streamline the monitoring system for this necessary reduction and to develop an eu-wide strategy for adaptation to climate change.
i regret, however, that this system remains anchored in the dangerous logic of the carbon market.
i voted in favour of the agreement between the european parliament and the council strengthening the mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions in the context of the union's and member states' internal and international commitments to combat climate change, in particular in relation to the kyoto protocol framework and their support to developing countries.
the aim of this legislation is to ensure that the union and the member states meet their commitments to reduce ghg emissions and combat climate change.
the union and the member states should therefore, in theory, clearly implement the energy and climate package adopted in 2009. however, it is regrettable that many of the european parliament's requests have not been accepted by the council, such as the reduction of the deadlines for member states to present their low-carbon economy strategies by 18 months or the requirement for additional data from industry and smes.
i support this report which stresses the need to adapt european aid to the situation of the overseas countries and territories associated with the eu in order to put their economies and societies on the path to sustainable development by increasing their competitiveness and improving regional cooperation and integration.
i support this report which stresses the need to adapt european aid to the situation of the overseas countries and territories associated with the eu in order to put their economies and societies on the path to sustainable development by increasing their competitiveness and improving regional cooperation and integration.
the octs' central challenge is therefore to put their economies on the path to sustainable development, in particular by increasing their competitiveness and reducing their vulnerability.
i voted in favour of the report on the new decision on the association of the overseas countries and territories, which will replace the one in force since 2001. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment, i believe that this decision represents a major asset for the octs, as it should enable them to put their economy and society on the path of sustainable development, while cooperating with their neighbours and taking account of developments in world trade.
i particularly welcome the emphasis on their competitiveness as a key tool for their sustainable development.
today, the european parliament has shown its progressive face by welcoming the commission's proposal and going further, with particular emphasis on sustainable management of natural resources, the promotion of renewable energy, investment in employment, and a relentless fight against tax havens.
the overseas countries and territories are facing a combination of terrible crises (environmental, social and economic).
by taking account of the consequences of climate change, this report is a first step.
i therefore believe that the identity and specific features of each oct should be better taken into account in this agreement, and that particular emphasis should be placed on the creation of sustainable jobs and regional cooperation between these territories, particularly with their neighbouring outermost regions.
and they are directly linked to the new challenges facing europe, such as the globalisation of trade, new environmental challenges or the risks of climate change.
without economic growth, without investment, without a european recovery plan, especially for major infrastructure projects and the energy transition, we will not be able to achieve the real objectives of this text.
it is essential for these companies to attract other sources of finance to ensure their sustainable and innovative growth.
the ess is a model of development that is different, not exclusively geared to profit at any cost, but more sustainable and supportive, and is, especially in times of crisis, a lever for the future of european economies.
in the current climate of gender equality, it is time to stop allowing the use of the image of girls and women for the purpose of sexualizing advertising, but also all the stereotypes related to the labour market that prove to be a handicap for women's access to employment.
the implementation of eu environmental legislation is difficult and varies from one member state to another, ranging from overzealous transposition to ineffective implementation.
the lack of implementation of eu environmental law has serious consequences for the environment and human health.
the implementation of eu environmental legislation is difficult and varies from one member state to another, ranging from overzealous transposition to ineffective implementation.
the cost of not implementing eu environmental law has serious consequences for the environment and human health.
i supported this rossi report (a7-0028/2013) as it looks at how to make the most of the eu's environmental measures, and advocates building trust through better knowledge and responsiveness.
to this end, it is essential to involve more stakeholders, national and local authorities, but also and above all the companies that have to comply with these environmental rules.
to this end, legal environmental responsibility and corporate social responsibility should be widely encouraged; i believe it is essential to implement all initiatives aimed at encouraging and disseminating better corporate social responsibility in the environmental field, as this principle reflects the requirement for companies to be open to the sustainable development strategy.
this responsible attitude would also avoid 'gold plating', which runs counter to the original political ideas and the effectiveness of european environmental legislation.
i voted for the rossi report on making the most of the union's environmental measures.
i believe that given the abundance of european environmental legislation, the main difficulty is to ensure that it is implemented effectively.
i also support greater transparency in environmental administrative procedures.
i particularly support the emphasis on data collection and dissemination: information for citizens is the key to the acceptability of environmental measures, but also to their effectiveness.
i will continue to advocate transparency, collection and dissemination of environmental data.
i voted in favour of this text, which allows the union to turn words into action in the fight against environmental pollution.
through the affirmation of greater transparency and easier access for citizens to 'environmental justice', the european citizen is now fully integrated into the more environmentally friendly europe he supports.
i voted in favour of this report, which is based on the principle that in environmental matters a balance must be struck between a regulatory framework protecting the environment and a margin of manoeuvre for the implementation of these rules.
the european environmental acquis is best implemented by taking into account local specificities and needs.
european environmental legislation is an opportunity for all economic sectors, whether industry, agriculture, transport or tourism.
i am therefore pleased that parliament has supported the proposed framework for action to make the most of environmental measures.
as a member of the south-west, i can tell you that we are facing acute problems of water pollution, to the extent that france has been called to order by the commission for the level of nitrates in its watercourses in the lot and garonne and in the pyrénées-atlantiques.
this pollution is mainly due to the monoculture of maize, which consumes a lot of water, inputs and pesticides, and which has been encouraged by successive cap reforms since 1992. without crop rotation, without compliance with the water and pesticides directive, without stopping gmos, without a ceiling on aid, the same logic of monoculture will prevail, with its harmful consequences.
it does not address global speculation in agricultural and food commodities or the full free trade which destroys food sovereignty, destroys the environment and lowers food safety and food safety, or the injustices linked to the disconnection of prices from labour.
the proposed aid ceiling is too high to be effective and to allow a fair distribution of public funds for family and peasant farming, employment and sustainable development.
as would be the social and environmental visas at the borders that need to be invented, as well as a protein plan that could have been possible with a new crop rotation.
the greening process is under way, but we must strengthen it from tomorrow and adapt it to the reality, to enable a real ecological transition: eco-conditionality, crop rotation, ecologically valuable areas must mark this political appointment.
i get a lot of messages in my territory in the south of france from citizens of my region asking me to support sustainable agriculture.
both are the two sides of the same coin, the interaction of man with his environment.
if in the past some farmers abused european rules, today the majority of the profession is fighting for sustainable and high-quality agriculture and is sometimes stifled by the bureaucracy of certain european requirements and standards.
despite the difficulties ahead, we hope that this first budget of the next multiannual financial framework will not mark the first step in a seven-year decline for the european project, ultimately to the detriment of the member states and their citizens, but will instead be the beginning of a new energy for the union in the face of the crisis.
the text also says that it must be established in the future, and that it must be established in an objective, fair, sustainable and transparent way.
what is important to me today - i tabled an amendment to this effect, which was adopted in the committee on constitutional affairs - is to say loud and clear that the european parliament which will come to the polls in 2014 will have to work on this thoroughly from the beginning of the next parliamentary term in order to develop a system - and this before the end of 2015, so really at the beginning of the parliamentary term - which will make it possible to consider the allocation of future seats on an objective basis, in a fair, sustainable, balanced, fair and demographic way.
it is crucial that we keep up the momentum behind national-level reforms in these areas, underpinned by the goals of the europe 2020 strategy: supporting growth that is smart, sustainable and inclusive.
if we want to return to sustainable growth, and create jobs, we have to continue to restore stability, and that includes putting our public finances in order.
we must continue with structural reform, without which there can be no sustainable return to growth.
over the last months and years, through consistent and courageous efforts at both european and national levels, we have come a long way to fight the root causes of this crisis and to pave the way for a sustainable future.
this means we must strengthen our focus and our resolve to respond to this crisis; a response that also addresses the short term needs and does not lose sight of the structural reforms we have signed up to; reforms that we know are necessary and that will form the basis of future sustainable growth.
second idea, let's go back to the idea of a big investment plan in infrastructure, railways, aviation, space, energy, water, digital.
the multiannual framework was originally designed to guarantee the sustainable financing of the major european policies, and it is now the framework that prevents any financing of genuine common policies.
this means continuing the constitutional work, stabilising national institutions, which will improve the business climate and promote economic recovery.
however, far from addressing the challenges of liberalisation of all betting and sports activities in general, the joint resolution merely lists good intentions and avoids proposing sustainable solutions for the sector.
the report also emphasises the need to put gender equality at the heart of the eu's relations with the countries of north africa and to promote the empowerment of women in these regions through sustainable actions.
our vision is clear: protecting their health and involving them in political and economic decision-making processes is to promote development, move towards more sustainable growth, and promote well-being and cohesion.
it is only on this basis that we can really achieve a sustainable development policy, a social pact for europe, an ambitious research policy, a european energy policy capable of achieving the objectives of a low-carbon economy, a policy of major works and infrastructure (maritime, rail, river).
the multiannual framework has been designed to ensure the sustainable financing of major european policies.
only at european level will it be possible to cope with the crisis through investments in the energy transition, aid to the most deprived and training for young people.
the proposed agreement provides for cuts in areas which mainly affect the lives of european citizens in times of crisis, including the poorest citizens, youth, farmers and fishermen, researchers, local authorities and environmental projects, thus fuelling the growing rejection of the european union by its peoples.
in order to ensure sustainable financing of community policies, we must focus on a flexible mff, allowing for the transfer of amounts from one sector to another, in order to achieve a fairer and more balanced budget.
i could not but welcome this new accounting system which integrates environmental and social accounts
in writing.
the year 2014 will be the first year of implementation of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. i voted in favour of this report, which states that the priorities for 2014 are sustainable and competitive economic growth, the recovery of employment and the fight against youth unemployment.
a new proposal for a more sustainable and transparent distribution of seats will be tabled by parliament in 2015.
in writing.
a concrete measure is the two-stage approach: this proposal would apply only to the 2014-2019 parliamentary term, and it is planned to present by the end of 2015 a new proposal for a decision establishing a sustainable and transparent system that would allow for the allocation of seats in an objective manner, based on the principle of degressive proportionality.
the text, drawn up by the parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety, is opposed to the european commission's proposal to define precisely the drinks that can be called 'absinthe', and for the wrong reasons.
as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i welcome this cap along greener lines, with a significant part of direct aid now conditional on compliance with environmental standards, such as the increase in areas of ecological interest.
finally, the european parliament has campaigned for a fairer and more sustainable cap by ensuring greater external convergence in the distribution of aid within the union and greater internal convergence within each member state.
for a healthy farming system, which allows farmers to live off their labour, which provides quality products and which is part of sustainable development, the mobilisation of both parliamentary and citizen representatives remains more necessary than ever.
the report proposes to link 30% of the national ceiling for direct payments to three environmental practices: crop diversification, permanent grassland and pasturage and ecological focus areas.
we have, however, taken care that these environmental measures are gradual and flexible, so as not to place too much pressure on farmers.
environmental measures are also made compulsory, but with sufficient flexibility to avoid burdening the competitiveness of farms.
i particularly welcome the measures for young farmers: we see that agriculture is a key sector for our economies, our culture, our environment and our health.
they want an agriculture that respects the environment, the quality, traceability and food safety of products and the carbon footprint.
the challenge is to meet the doubling of food requirements by 2050 in a context of water scarcity, a decline in arable land and a new energy situation dictated by the fight against climate change.
the french want quality agriculture, efficient agriculture, meeting high environmental standards and sustainable agriculture for our farmers, but without ideology or excessive bureaucracy.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a welcome one.
he voted against compliance with the water framework directive, a key european text for environmental protection.
in order to tackle the challenge of greening, i support the conditioning of 30% of direct aid to farmers to environmental standards, such as crop diversification or the maintenance of permanent grasslands.
i welcome the balanced approach that the european parliament has chosen to take to the common agricultural policy, ensuring the future of our farmers while meeting the legitimate social and environmental expectations of society.
as regards direct payments, the european parliament has approved the introduction of the greening principle to ensure that agriculture is more respectful of the environment and our landscapes.
we want 30% of direct aid to farmers to be conditional on compliance with certain environmental practices, but with flexibility for small farms.
i voted in favour of the resolution on direct payments to farmers because the environment is more taken into account by farmers implementing environmentally friendly measures in order to receive 30% of the aid to which they are entitled under the basic payment scheme.
finally, i am pleased that we have found a compromise for sustainable agriculture, with environmental objectives to be achieved according to the capabilities of each farmer.
for a healthy farming system, which allows farmers to live off their labour, which provides quality products and which is part of sustainable development, the mobilisation of both parliamentary and citizen representatives remains more necessary than ever.
they want an agriculture that respects the environment, the quality, traceability and food safety of products and the carbon footprint.
the challenge is to meet the doubling of food requirements by 2050 in a context of water scarcity, a decline in arable land and a new energy situation dictated by the fight against climate change.
he voted against compliance with the water framework directive, a key european text for environmental protection.
this is achieved, for example, by maintaining planting rights, which enable us to guarantee the sustainability of a varied and high-quality wine sector.
we want 30% of direct aid to farmers to be conditional on compliance with certain environmental practices, but with flexibility for small farms.
in the common strategic framework, rural development must meet three requirements: competitiveness of agriculture, sustainable management of natural resources and balanced development of rural areas.
for a healthy farming system, which allows farmers to live off their labour, which provides quality products and which is part of sustainable development, the mobilisation of both parliamentary and citizen representatives remains more necessary than ever.
some agri-environmental measures therefore allow these payments to be cumulated with the first pillar green payment.
they want an agriculture that respects the environment, the quality, traceability and food safety of products and the carbon footprint.
the challenge is to meet the doubling of food requirements by 2050 in a context of water scarcity, a decline in arable land and a new energy situation dictated by the fight against climate change.
he voted against compliance with the water framework directive, a key european text for environmental protection.
i also welcome the vote on the financing of agroforestry, which covers all agricultural areas and will help to preserve biodiversity and landscapes and combat soil erosion.
we want 30% of direct aid to farmers to be conditional on compliance with certain environmental practices, but with flexibility for small farms.
rural development pursues three objectives for the common agricultural policy (cap): the competitiveness of agriculture, the sustainable management of natural resources, and the balanced development of rural areas.
i voted in favour of this proposal for a decision because rural development will lead to better competitiveness and sustainability of farms, in particular through the transfer of knowledge and innovation.
it will also continue efforts to protect the environment and biodiversity by promoting the efficient use of resources.
i welcome this vote which will give rural areas new means to develop over the period 2014-2020. following on from the previous eafrd, this new fund will finance a multitude of projects by local economic actors aimed at strengthening the agricultural sector, preserving the environment in rural areas and diversifying their activities.
i have asked the eafrd to recognise the mediterranean climate as a natural constraint, in order to help farmers in paca to cope better with drought and other constraints linked to this particular climate.
i'll make sure the mediterranean climate is in the picture.
i voted in favour of this report which sets out the plan for the financing, management and monitoring of the common agricultural policy for the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020. this report builds on the europe 2020 strategy by promoting resource efficiency for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth for eu agriculture and rural areas.
as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i am pleased that the priority of direct payments is to sustainable production in a more respectful environment.
for a healthy farming system, which allows farmers to live off their labour, which provides quality products and which is part of sustainable development, the mobilisation of both parliamentary and citizen representatives remains more necessary than ever.
the penalties system has been redesigned, penalties for non-compliance with greening requirements have been reduced, in order to give farmers time to adapt to these new environmental requirements.
they want an agriculture that respects the environment, the quality, traceability and food safety of products and the carbon footprint.
the challenge is to meet the doubling of food requirements by 2050 in a context of water scarcity, a decline in arable land and a new energy situation dictated by the fight against climate change.
he voted against compliance with the water framework directive, a key european text for environmental protection.
the report also ensures that aid is still conditional on compliance with basic environmental, health and animal welfare requirements.
we want 30% of direct aid to farmers to be conditional on compliance with certain environmental practices, but with flexibility for small farms.
we have today voted in favour of an ambitious new cap which will finally take into account environmental requirements, food security and fair redistribution.
on the environmental side, the cap must finally be reoriented towards an ecological transition taking into account the need to feed the continent, but with quality products and respecting our environment while accompanying our farmers in this change.
carbon emissions must be reduced by 85% by 2050, including through energy efficiency, renewable energy or nuclear energy.
it is essential to secure energy supplies and to maintain competitiveness without affecting the environment in a lasting way.
this is why the eu has set up the eu emissions trading scheme (ets): a mechanism of co2 emission rights to reduce overall co2 emissions and meet the requirements of the kyoto protocol.
the report aims to strengthen the mechanism for monitoring greenhouse gas emissions and to provide guidance for the deferral of co2 allowances in the european union.
the transition to a low-carbon economy is a key eu objective.
to achieve this, it is interesting that the union presents a roadmap, the idea being to draw up the energy mix by 2050, translating into concrete actions the path to a decarbonised economy.
there was good in this own-initiative report, whether it was on renewable energy or energy efficiency.
but i voted against the report in the end because of the very positive paragraphs on nuclear energy and the rejection of binding targets for greenhouse gas emissions, renewable energy and energy efficiency for 2030. while it is normal that, under the scenarios envisaged by the eu and in all likelihood, the energy mix should include all energy sources, without a priori, nuclear energy should not be considered as essential.
the aim, in france as in other member states, is to reduce the share of nuclear energy in energy production.
this will be achieved through voluntary energy diversification and the integration of the transition into a framework of energy efficiency and sobriety.
it is with this in mind that the rapporteur calls for the establishment of a policy framework for 2030. it also highlights the importance of renewable energy sources, the global challenges we face, research and new technologies.
the european union has set out a roadmap for a low-carbon economy by 2050. non-binding targets have been adopted for greenhouse gas reduction, renewable energy and energy efficiency, to allow member states time to adapt their economies to these environmental constraints.
the approach adopted in this resolution reflects our ambition: an open approach to reducing greenhouse gas emissions is needed if we are to achieve a low-carbon economy by 2050. in voting in favour of this resolution, i support the emphasis on employment and the fight against energy poverty.
a secure and stable supply also requires the protection of the most vulnerable to enable everyone to meet their basic energy needs.
the union must support member states in their transition to cleaner energy, which is what citizens are demanding.
however, as the report states here, it is essential that each member state should be able to preserve its independence in the field of energy security.
it is necessary to increase the predictability of european energy and climate policy by setting binding targets for 2030. the majority of meps seem to have given up all ambition in this area.
the conservative inertia of this text on nuclear energy, which is still described as a "significant contributor" to decarbonisation, is simply scandalous.
i do not want a european energy policy built on outdated and dangerous energy models and that is why i voted against this road map.
energy efficiency and renewable energy and strong interconnection of networks are essential.
for the same or lower cost, this would generate more jobs, more smes, more purchasing power, more energy security and, of course, better protection of the environment and health.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is essential to have a sound energy policy for the future of the european union.
this report highlights the eu's responsibility in this vital area: its main task is to coordinate national energy policies.
we must have a role in stimulating and regulating member states' energy policies and help to find incentive and innovative funding sources, particularly through public-private partnerships.
we need a european energy market that is fluid and without barriers.
member states must be able to work together to achieve a coherent and relevant european energy policy that responds well to the challenges of the future.
there are many difficulties which require us to devote particular attention to this issue, notably the question of energy independence due to certain complex geopolitical balances or the need for a transition to a more varied energy package, for an economy with a smaller impact on the environment.
energy is crucial for the lives of citizens, industry and development.
it is therefore necessary to consider how to anticipate, forecast and support the reduction of co2 emissions and propose a sustainable energy mix.
the solutions proposed to ensure an effective change in the union's energy framework are not the right ones; they will lead to energy insecurity, to higher household bills.
the directions being followed are dangerous for the future of the european energy sector.
the report remains mired in a neoliberalism discredited by the economic crisis and insists on the need to further liberalise the sector and its infrastructures in order to complete a hypothetical and fragile european energy market.
this own-initiative report calls for the eu to respect the greenhouse gas emission reductions recommended by the ipcc.
it is in favour of a substantial development of renewable energies and high energy efficiency.
the report is an ecological and therefore human nonsense.
it offers no viable solution to the energy crisis.
it considers the carbon market to be the main instrument for reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
it called for the full application of the rules for the liberalisation of the european energy market.
i voted in favour of this report which sets out a roadmap for energy by 2050. energy investments are long-term investments: stakeholders, governments and citizens must be able to benefit from a minimum of visibility so that they know where to direct their efforts and in which types of energy production to invest (fossil, nuclear, electricity, wind, etc.).
the parliament proposes a number of measures: investment in energy efficiency, the development of renewable energies, research funding, improved energy storage and the deepening of the european energy market.
i voted against this report on the european union's energy policy for 2050. firstly, because it is part of the continuation of the policy of liberalization of the sector, the devastating effects of which are well known, particularly in the field of tariffs, whereas officially, it should be recalled, the objective of liberalization was to reduce costs for the consumer.
worse, the text accommodates this, since the social dimension and energy poverty are only dealt with in terms of compensatory measures for higher energy prices which will only increase inequality in access to energy.
on energy efficiency, renewable energy and the reduction of ghg emissions, the resolution adopted is a false-voluntaryist discourse, taking little account of the recent setbacks in the union in this area, and failing to refer to the various binding objectives adopted!
the ep proposes that the energy sector should be transformed to meet the challenges and objectives, particularly those relating to climate and social issues.
it is time to make energy a common good, accessible to all.
i abstained on this report, however, because i considered that the debate had been diverted by the european greens who had launched an alarmist accusation against nuclear energy.
tackling nuclear energy in this way directly challenges the achievement of the energy mix targets of a 20% reduction in co2 emissions by 2020 and could prove dangerous for the economy and research in the european union.
nuclear power plants now produce almost one third of the electricity and 15% of the energy consumed in the european union.
these tests have shown that the safety standards recommended by the international atomic energy agency (iaea) and international best practices are not fully applied by all member states.
i welcome the fact that this resolution focuses on the prospects for improving nuclear safety in europe following the stress tests carried out in the wake of fukushima and does not call into question the place of nuclear in the energy mix of some member states.
in the interests of transparency, greater involvement of the european parliament - representing the european people - should be guaranteed in future debates on nuclear energy and nuclear safety in europe, but in compliance with the euratom treaty and the defined competences.
the text does not mention that there is no such thing as zero risk in nuclear energy.
so he has no plans to release this dangerous energy.
endocrine disruptors are chemical molecules that are found everywhere - in our environment and in many of the objects we use every day - and that are thought to have an impact on our endocrine system and our health.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
for example, the european strategy for renovating buildings to improve their energy performance should be accompanied by a strategy for asbestos removal.
by defending the general interest, promoting sustainable practices and demonstrating a high degree of social responsibility, mutual societies are working to preserve the european social model and are playing a positive role in these times of crisis.
the fight against growing inequalities, the liberalization of information, the fight against state corruption, the reconciliation of economic development and environmental protection are now at the heart of china's concerns.
i want to support the fight against human rights violations, labour law violations and environmental pollution at every stage of the cotton value chain, including in the textile and clothing sectors.
it is necessary to restore ethical rules in the cotton sector to prevent the clothes we wear in europe from being the product of child labour and from destroying the ecosystem of the producing countries in a lasting way.
i voted in favour of this parliament resolution called on sustainability in the global cotton value chain.
i am very surprised by your speech because i have the impression that we have not understood what this 'carbon market' was.
we are told that if we intervene in the carbon market, it will be arbitrary.
but this carbon market is, from the outset, arbitrary.
it's not a market that exists in the real world and needs to be regulated, it's a market that was created to serve the interests of climate policy.
so i would like to know if you understood from the beginning what this climate policy was, what this carbon market was and the fact that when it does not work, it is because the regulations that frame it are not sufficient.
mr president, commissioner, is the emissions trading system the best system?
but when i hear that the current criticism of the carbon market must call into question the very existence of the market, i say that there is an astonishing alliance here on the destruction and killing of european climate policy.
has mr mittal, with his 1.8 billion euro of co2 allowance cash, invested in carbon and energy-soundness in his industry?
by defending groups, by defending certain actors in yesterday's economy, you are preventing the emergence of an economy which will indeed create jobs, which will indeed serve citizens and which will not only be innovative, competitive and enable us to save the climate.
as for the first question, personally, when the climate negotiations began, i was more in favour of a taxation system.
but what i know today is that if we lose in the carbon market, there will be no alternative instrument.
the reason why the carbon market today does not provide incentives for transformation and carbon-neutral is that the price is too low and the incentive needs to be reinforced, in particular by obtaining auction revenues to finance the energy transition.
as for mr szymański's question, if you are professing today with mr mittal, and a number of big players, that the carbon market must be killed, it is that, in fact, you want to prevent the structure that allows innovation in the carbon market, that allows sobriety and that allows investment.
by killing the carbon market, you also kill all the ulcos projects that were able to support the transformation and sustainability of the steel industry in europe.
mr president, there are those in this house who are defending the climate, and then there are the others.
the price of carbon has fallen, partly because of the economic recession affecting our european industries, but also because of the efforts already made, since we are confident of meeting the emission reduction targets set for 2020. commissioner, you are interfering with a market system which was not designed for this.
but as you know, there is no reindustrialisation policy without an energy policy.
on the one hand, there are the energy suppliers, who have an interest in seeing the cost of energy rise, and it is them that the commission is protecting.
commissioner, you do not have the same energy to revive energy efficiency.
i do not accept this europe which wants to increase energy prices arbitrarily in times of crisis.
who will have the courage to tell our fellow citizens that europe wants to raise the price of energy?
if you vote ‘yes’ to this, then the commission’s impact assessment, the big operators in this market, and those who on a daily basis analyse the implications of what we do – such as point carbon and bloomberg energy finance – all these specialists estimate that the maximum impact on the cost of co2 per tonne would be a return to the prices of last september, october and november.
mr szymański mentioned energy-intensive sectors, such as cement, steel and chemicals.
i should just like to remind you how they were identified: on the basis of a carbon price that was seven times what it is today.
it is based on a eur 30 carbon price.
i happen to think that this is why it was no coincidence that this parliament, when adopting regulatory measures like the energy efficiency directive, asked the commission to look at short-term implications for emissions trading.
however, it was also discussed at an informal environmental council last year in april, so of course we also had the backing of member states to come forward and address this.
well, that is not actually true when it comes to emissions trading.
i think it is quite interesting for this debate to note that, last week, china announced that it would come up with a proposal next month for a nationwide emissions trading scheme.
would it not look just a bit foolish if europe did not get it right with its own emissions trading scheme when we have actually now managed to get some of our very big competitors to adopt or start adopting a market-based system?
mr president, my very last comment is that i understand that for those of you who think that we do not have a climate problem or who have always been against the market-based system, of course it makes sense to vote ‘no’ tomorrow.
the community's emissions trading scheme (ets) was intended to meet the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but the market is suffering from a surplus of allowances.
the price of carbon would then remain low and volatile, with no deterrent for industry.
the european commission's backloading proposal, echoed in the matthias groote report, would reduce the quantity of quotas by 900 million by 2019. it is a good measure to clean up the carbon market, which has so far functioned in a biased way: as a system of subsidies for polluters.
climate change is a global issue.
the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has increased by 31% since 1750. the current rate of increase is unprecedented in 20,000 years.
i support the rejection of the european commission's proposal on carbon trading and its withdrawal because i oppose any intervention by the european commission in the current context.
the commission is not satisfied with the low price of carbon because it has not foreseen the crisis and the slowdown in industrial activity.
the eu's most ambitious climate policy in the world must not take precedence over employment in europe.
if the demand for polluting rights decreases in a period of economic downturn, it is not the responsibility of dg climate change to propose an intervention in the system in place.
the commission could propose the creation of an independent european authority to regulate the carbon emissions system.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, this greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme is a very bad answer to a real problem.
global warming is one of the major problems facing all of humanity.
to solve it, therefore, requires drastically reducing greenhouse gas emissions, particularly in the areas of transport, but also in agriculture, heating, waste treatment and industrial production.
this would also mean the creation of a large european public service for energy and waste treatment, instead of sterile competition between the major national energy groups and between the different energy sources.
the idea of solving the problem of greenhouse gas emissions by the market is dogmatic and vicious.
and yet, in 30 years, greenhouse gas emissions per passenger have been reduced by 50 percent.
vicarious because this market of quotas will always allow the richest to continue to pollute with impunity while the poorest are rationed energy.
the solution is not in a quota market, nor in the market at all, but in research and regulations which will involve everyone according to their responsibilities, including goods from countries which do not comply with any environmental rules.
the ecological consequences on biomass, as well as the reduction in european quotas, have not been long in coming and the economic situation of the union's fishermen is now in jeopardy.
it is urgent that the european institutions play their role as regulators and that these behaviours, which are irresponsible from an ecological and economic point of view, be punished.
firstly, can we not consider including these states on the list of those that do not respect sustainable fishing?
this conflict between the european union, iceland and the faroe islands undermines a long-standing agreement between states with common interests that enabled the sustainable management of resources.
we must safeguard the environmental, economic and commercial interests of all the actors involved.
it is the sustainable development of our oceans that is at stake.
refusing a triple cost social, economic and environmental.
what the eu does with trade agreements is create a long-term and predictable legal framework, allowing businesses on all sides to work together in a sustainable manner.
i was impressed by their enormous talent and energy.
we all know there is no shortcut to creating new jobs in a sustainable manner.
structural reforms will not bear fruit overnight, but reforms are the most effective and most sustainable economic stimulus in the long run.
first, we need a truly integrated european energy market.
energy is the lifeblood of the economy.
global competition for energy is getting fiercer.
europe needs to get its act together and take the internal energy market seriously.
we need more investment in energy infrastructure.
to drive investment in low-emission alternatives, we need to restore the effect of the emissions trading system, which you were deliberating yesterday evening.
we must focus on energy and what unites us, not on what separates us.
in this environment, finland has demonstrated that it is not size alone which moves the european debate forward but the strength of your ideas and the commitment and determination to see these ideas through.
their importance in the provision of essential services, including energy, should be emphasised.
this new economic agreement is, at first sight, not a bad agreement, since it is economically reasonable and encourages a sustainable management of available resources.
our future common fisheries policy has the potential to incorporate, for the first time, binding ecological criteria in the name of sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
but this key paradigm shift must be made in close collaboration with the first parties concerned, and therefore the local fishermen, who are the guarantors of a successful ecological transition.
it was essential to ensure that this agreement did not have adverse economic, social and environmental consequences for the republic of mauritius.
it is important to protect the marine and fisheries biodiversity of mauritius, to ensure the sustainable development of the sector and to prevent the risk of competition between mauritian and european fleets, which is, to say the least, unequal.
and converting to export monocultures would inevitably lead to the destruction of local production at the expense of the food of the population and major ecological imbalances and make them even more dependent on fluctuations in world markets.
the european carbon emission trading scheme (ects) is the cornerstone of the eu's climate policy.
this market system aims at the progressive reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the union in order to meet the international commitments under the kyoto protocol.
however, an over-allocation of emission allowances for the third phase of the ets (2013-2020), combined with the economic crisis and the impact of other energy objectives, led to an over-allocation of allowances in relation to industrial needs.
the market is suffering from a severe imbalance, and the price of a ton of carbon has fallen by 30% in one year.
twenty votes were missing to adopt the backloading bill and give fresh life to our greenhouse gas emissions trading system.
the european parliament's rejection of the postponement of the auctioning of 900 million tonnes of carbon allowances is a serious setback for the eu, and de facto reduces our ambition to exercise leadership in the fight against climate change.
immediately after the vote, the price per tonne fell to 3 euros, which means that this is not the way to encourage the development of cleaner energy sources.
i voted against the commission's proposal to freeze 900 million 'rights to pollute' on the carbon market in order to limit the number of securities available on the market and thus better manage the carbon price.
the proposal would have had the direct consequence of increasing the cost of energy, and in these times of crisis it is important to think first of our industries and our jobs.
i remain convinced that a policy to reduce greenhouse gases such as the ets is necessary, as is support for investment in renewable energy.
the emissions trading scheme is a symbol of the european union's leading edge in the fight against climate change.
is this the right time to artificially raise the price of carbon?
this matter has been referred to the committee on the environment, so we shall have the opportunity to continue our reflection on the subject.
at the global level, tackling the effects of climate change is probably one of the greatest challenges of all time.
since the 1990s, the european union has taken bold steps in this regard, including the establishment of a carbon market to limit emissions from the most polluting industries.
in addition to the deteriorating economic environment, the lack of visibility into the 2030 and 2040 constraint and the weak perception by market participants of the political will to support the market today and in the longer term have a strong impact on carbon prices.
postponing the auctioning of 900 million tonnes of carbon allowances.
but beyond this measure, which was referred back for consideration by a small majority in the european parliament, what we need above all is an ambitious and lasting reform of the system for combating climate change.
the ets was introduced in 2005 with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
the market is now in serious difficulty, with the price of a tonne of carbon being less than 5 euros.
it therefore seemed essential to react and vote in favour of this text which will help to save this system, which is the very heart of european policy to combat climate change.
it is true that the real issue is ideological: economic realism versus global warming religion.
the opposite majorities in the committees on industry and the environment are symptomatic in this respect.
the carbon market is the only operational instrument of eu climate policy to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions.
this proposal, which was not sufficient, would have allowed the european carbon market to survive and opened up the prospect of a thoroughgoing overhaul of the european emissions trading system.
by rejecting this proposal, the european parliament is undermining the efforts of many companies to reduce their emissions and contribute to the decarbonised economy we need to achieve by 2050 to avoid climate catastrophe.
in 2008, nicolas sarkozy's government committed the eu to reducing its emissions by 20% by 2020. this is a goal we are keeping in mind and we must acknowledge the efforts already made by industry in this direction.
the rejection of the commission's proposal does not mean the death of the european carbon trading system but the will not to disrupt the activities of industries and their long-term investment plans which will serve, when growth reappears in europe, the objective of combating climate change.
i have chosen, like the majority of my epp colleagues, to reject the european commission's proposal to freeze the auctioning of excess co2 allowances under the european carbon trading system, the cornerstone of the european union's climate policy.
the european parliament chose to refer this proposal, which aimed to increase the price of the 'polluting permit' within the european union, to the environment committee.
on the other hand, the economic situation is such that a rise in the price of carbon would risk reducing the competitiveness of our companies and industry, especially small and mediumsized ones, which would be hit the hardest.
far from separating the 'good' and the 'bad', those who would be in favour of the environment and the fight against global warming and those who would be hostile to it and would have 'sold out' to the industrial lobbies, i think that the freezing of the auction of the auction proposed by commissioner hedegaard would lead to an extra cost of the price of energy for both individuals and companies.
i therefore voted, with the majority of my colleagues, to refer the text to the relevant parliamentary committees so that they can work on a solution to adapt the market management system to the economic realities of the moment without hindering the continuation of the fight against global warming.
the text does not call into question the carbon market, whose inefficiency and even harmfulness have now been proven.
another report that benefits the markets and harms the environment.
the current european system for combating greenhouse gas emissions, based on a european carbon market where 'polluting rights' are sold, is far from effective.
this is partly because carbon prices tend to be too low to provide an incentive for a transition to cleaner production methods, which is not acceptable.
for these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour of the commission's proposal to clarify the provisions on the timing of the auctioning of emission allowances to increase carbon prices, and thus to encourage companies to further reduce their emissions.
in order to meet the challenge of climate change, the european union needs to develop new, more ambitious and truly effective policies to support the transition to a low-carbon economy.
on the one hand, because of the almost instantaneous increase in the cost of energy and, consequently, in production.
the fight against climate change must of course be and always remain at the centre of our priorities.
but europe is a good student, and we will achieve all our greenhouse gas emission reduction targets without any problems.
in reality, this was an important pro-environmental measure that effectively combats co2 emissions.
the european emissions trading scheme is a unique carbon marketplace created to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from european industries.
companies have carbon credits, which they can auction off if they reduce their emissions.
the crisis has weakened energy-consuming companies, reducing their production and thus their emissions.
the commission wanted to raise the price of a tonne of co2 to encourage renewable energy.
however, this proposal risks raising the cost of energy, destabilising the market and increasing the advantage of industries outside the european union.
the european parliament has given its opinion on the timetable for greenhouse gas emission allowance auctions.
the european union has set up a quota trading system to reduce co2 emissions from european industries, which are responsible for global warming.
and, beyond these environmental considerations, it should be stressed that green technologies are a particularly important source of jobs for the european union.
parliament's rejection of the possibility of freezing the auctioning of 900 million tonnes of co2 emission allowances seriously calls into question the relevance of the very existence of the emission allowance market, and shows the limits of the commodification of pollution.
the price of a ton of carbon, which is supposed to limit emissions by imposing a dissuasive price, has only fallen since its creation: from 30 euros per ton when it was launched, it was 10 euros last year, and fell to 2.63 euros at 2 pm, after the rejection of the parliament.
89% of europeans consider global warming to be a serious issue and believe that it can also help boost the economy and employment (eurobarometer 2011).
the question of environmental dumping is indeed a problem, exacerbated by the economic and social crisis we are going through.
moreover, the arguments that the increase in the price of the carbon tonne is harmful to undertakings are not valid, since the objective is to restore the price of the tonne as it was at the launch of the ets.
− the european commission's proposed suspension of allowance trading is not to be supported as it creates uncertainty about the future of the eu emissions trading system (ets) and threatens the future of local manufacturing companies.
the commission's aim in encouraging the suspension of the trading of allowances and thus artificially driving up the price of co2 allowances on the market is an ill-conceived proposal to reduce harmful emissions into the air.
the commission's initiative would bring transparency to climate change legislation by affecting the current trading period provided for in existing legislation.
under pressure from the industrial and employers' lobby, the right wing of parliament rejected the commission's proposal to freeze a large part of the excess co2 emission allowances of the european emissions trading system (ets).
the gue/ngl group remains hostile to the carbon market system, but it is the only mechanism at the moment to try to reduce co2 emissions.
the commission has therefore at least to be better placed to compel manufacturers to reduce their emissions.
the only long-term solution is a thorough reform of the ets and the establishment of a genuine european policy to combat climate change, which is more necessary than ever.
the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme (ges) for intercontinental flights departing from and landing at european airports is an ambitious environmental policy programme of the european union.
this freeze on the entry into force of the directive will help to ease tensions with our partners in third countries and to negotiate with them an international agreement on carbon emissions from the aviation sector.
if successful, european aviation will no longer face competition from airlines not bound by the same climate obligations.
on 16 april, the european parliament put forward directive 2008/101/ec which incorporates airlines into the greenhouse gas emission allowance system.
ceding to pressure from its major trading partners (china and the united states in the lead), a small majority of elected officials has just contributed, as is no longer customary in these times of crisis, to the eu's leadership in the fight against global warming.
how can aviation, whose greenhouse gas emissions have increased substantially, be encouraged to take better account of its impact and responsibility in climate change?
but this vote also shows our determination: if no concrete and effective solution is found, we will apply the emissions trading system (ets) to all international flights.
the next summit of the international civil aviation organisation (icao) in september 2013 has a good chance of reaching a multilateral agreement establishing a global market mechanism to regulate co2 emissions in the aviation sector.
in order to send a positive signal to its international partners, the european union has decided to temporarily suspend its system of carbon emission quotas for intercontinental flights by european and non-european carriers for a period of one year.
the hand extended by europe on the eve of the international negotiations in the icao must now be translated into rapid and effective results in reducing the quantities of greenhouse gases produced by aviation, which have almost doubled in the last 20 years and represent 3% of the total.
i supported the postponement of the application of the emissions trading scheme to the aviation sector for flights to and from third countries in order to allow for the continuation of internal negotiations.
in 2008, nicolas sarkozy's government committed the eu to reducing its emissions by 20% by 2020. this is a goal we are keeping in mind and we must acknowledge the efforts already made by industry in this direction.
the rejection of the commission's proposal does not mean the death of the european carbon trading system but the will not to disrupt the activities of industries and their long-term investment plans which will serve, when growth reappears in europe, the objective of combating climate change.
i welcome the adoption of this report which will allow for a temporary derogation from the conditions of directive 2003/87/ec establishing the ets (greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme) in order to allow for global regulation of emissions in the aviation sector.
the report proposes to remove any obligation to meet greenhouse gas emission quotas for flights to or from airports outside the eu.
therefore, no consequences are drawn from the inefficiency of the carbon market.
created in 2005 to combat climate change, the european carbon market operates on the basis of emission quotas, real 'polluting rights', which are supposed to encourage industry to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.
it has failed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions or encourage investment in cleaner production methods.
moreover, the carbon prices defined by this market are volatile and tend to be too low and fraud is widespread.
what we need is an end to this carbon market, a change of direction to adopt ambitious measures to effectively combat climate change, and a deeper transformation of our energy, financial and transport systems, as well as our modes of production, distribution and waste management.
in the plenary vote, i supported the european commission's proposal because i believe that the 'concentration at the end of the period' it envisages is a necessary option, at the risk of endangering the emissions trading system (ets) itself.
the eecsc is at the heart of european policy to combat climate change and is beginning to take off in other major powers (australia, korea, china).
this should eventually consolidate our business network and encourage production and thus the creation of sustainable jobs.
because without investment and support for those who create and innovate, we will not be able to reverse this trend in a sustainable way.
this is more than necessary, in order not to repeat the financial disaster of 2008 it also encourages sustainable banking activities, such as mutual credit unions and cooperative banks, which primarily serve the interests of individuals, in particular through their members.
the lessons of the financial and economic crisis must be learned if sustainable growth is to be restored and the battle for competitiveness won.
this should eventually consolidate our business network and encourage production and thus the creation of sustainable jobs.
because without investment and support for those who create and innovate, we will not be able to reverse this trend in a sustainable way.
ground handling services used by airlines, transport commissioners and passengers at major eu airports require a high level of efficiency in order to meet high standards of reliability, safety and environmental protection.
these measures need to be improved in order to ensure the sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources.
the aim is to reduce the level of bycatch and discards in this area in order to ensure sustainable fishing and thus the renewal of marine biological resources.
furthermore, while the skagerrak fishermen go out during the day, it is not difficult to imagine that this measure, applied to other fisheries in which the fishermen go out for several weeks in a row, would be all the less sustainable.
i voted in favour of this text as it will avoid the negative effects of the current fishing practice on the marine environment in this region.
by making it compulsory to land fish caught in the skagerrak, the european union is ensuring a more environmentally friendly fishing and, more particularly, a sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources.
i support sustainable fisheries management and therefore the development of selective gear to limit by-catch.
it is high time to put an end to 'disposal', the irresponsible practice of dumping fish into the sea on a massive scale because of their size or species, which exacerbates overfishing and is an unacceptable waste (we all know that most fish thrown into the sea die).
the problem of discards is a recurring issue for european fisheries: the majority of unwanted fish - too small or out of quota - discarded at sea die, exacerbating resource waste and overfishing.
i believe that it creates an absurd situation of unfair monitoring to ensure the control of a measure, the landing of waste, which is in any case uncontrollable and unenforceable as it stands.
i remain in favour of more selective and sustainable provisions in the common fisheries policy.
in the light of future cooperation, i support this report which stresses that the private sector must be included in this cooperation as an additional guarantee of the sustainable development of these companies.
these included the export tax on raw materials (an important tool for developing countries to develop and diversify their economies) and the legally binding value of corporate social and environmental responsibility, which are essential to moving towards greater policy coherence for development.
trade between the european union and developing countries must be a sustainable and functional engine for development and growth for the next decade.
several key variables seem to me to be essential in the negotiation and sustainability of these trade agreements, such as fostering greater regional integration and cooperation and improving local governance within the developing countries concerned.
we must take into account the needs and capacities of recipient countries, and promote sustainable and inclusive development; create jobs and strengthen skills and human capital development while reducing social inequalities; it is also important to support the development of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to encourage their participation in trade and investment at local, regional and cross-border levels.
this requires good governance and the implementation of social, environmental and labour standards and the respect of fundamental principles such as human rights.
in this own-initiative report, tokia saïfi reviews the european commission's proposals to make trade-based growth a driver of sustainable development.
trade measures are very useful tools to encourage the improvement of social, environmental and labour standards in emerging countries, not to mention respect for human rights.
at the same time, developing partner countries have a responsibility to provide the most favourable environment for the exploitation of the investments from which they will benefit.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
− madam president, honourable members, the agreement of a cypriot macroeconomic adjustment programme has been the focus of much energy and attention over recent weeks.
but this should not prevent us from recognising that these measures, however difficult, grant real assistance to cyprus – assistance which is absolutely necessary, both to allow cyprus the chance to get its public finances and economy back on a sustainable path and to safeguard stability inside the monetary union.
this marks the beginning of a joint effort to bring cyprus onto the path of sustainable growth and job creation.
many of them, including anti-money laundering measures, were adopted by the cyprus parliament before the end of 2012. the commission’s aim during the whole process of agreeing a support programme for cyprus has been threefold: to help cyprus onto the path of sustainable growth, to preserve financial stability in cyprus and in the eurozone and to protect the integrity of the euro and the single market.
the commission’s preferred scenario was a more gradual adjustment of the cypriot banking system and real economy, while ensuring debt sustainability.
the support programme will enable cyprus to restore the health of the economy and to create a more sustainable economic model.
the cyprus crisis, after others, shows us that an economy with a hypertrophied banking sector is not sustainable in the long term.
structural reforms are also needed to build a strong foundation for the economy and return to sustainable growth in the long term.
mr rehn, let us stop talking about the sustainable economic prospects now.
the cypriot economic model was not sustainable, but the initially proposed restructuring, without the backing of parliament, could only lead to the suffocation of the population.
but it is enough to read the report, and some others of the fifty we are voting on today, to see that the commission, or the agencies still directly attached to it, is not without its own flaws: complexity of policies, waste, waste, mismanagement, lack of control, problems of management and recruitment of staff, and even, in a few cases, doubts about the legality and regularity of the underlying operations... as for performance, i.e.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2011.
in writing.
i have approved the 2011 discharge of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators.
the result of the examination of the accounts being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i voted to give discharge to the budget of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators.
the european environment agency (eea) provides independent information on the environment for policy-makers in the european union and the member states.
the agency plays a key role in issues that we regularly address in the parliamentary committee on the environment, public health and food safety, such as biodiversity, air and climate change.
against the report of the committee on budgetary control, i voted to grant discharge to the european environment agency.
i voted against the discharge for the european environment agency for the financial year 2011. the agency is being investigated by the european anti-fraud office (olaf) on suspicion of illegal award of public contracts in copenhagen.
the european environment agency is currently under investigation by the european anti-fraud office (olaf).
in the european parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i specialised in issues relating to food and animal safety, in particular through my report on beef labelling.
unlike my vote on the european environment agency, i voted against the discharge to efsa.
as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i am particularly sensitive to public health and food safety issues and strongly support this report which gives the european medicines agency a discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget in 2011.
in writing.
the ecb's annual report was prepared in a difficult economic environment, with a deepening sovereign debt crisis in most member states threatening to relaunch the banking crisis.
originally designed to coordinate national research programmes for the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, the euratom treaty now contributes to the pooling of knowledge, infrastructure and funding for nuclear energy.
it ensures the security of the atomic energy supply through centralised control.
council decision 2007/198/euratom of 27 march 2007 establishing a joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy and conferring advantages on it.
that is why i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2011.
in writing.
i have approved the 2011 discharge of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy.
the result of the audit being satisfactory and with the positive recommendation of the council, i voted to give discharge to the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy.
iter is an unacceptable waste of public money for the benefit of nuclear energy.
the money should go towards planning the phase-out of nuclear power and increasing the share of renewable energy in the european energy mix.
i think we should really congratulate ria oomen-ruijten, who has succeeded in making this report a report of a political partner, without paternalistic overtones, while being able to address situations and issues which are of great political sensitivity, such as the question of minority rights, freedom of expression - we have just spoken about this - the situation of women or environmental issues.
as for the rest, i am not quite sure what you mean by the environmental impact of turkey's accession to the european union.
i believe that i am always at the forefront of these issues in the discussions with our turkish counterparts, for example on the issues of climate change, in the fight against these nuclear power plant projects and in ensuring that growth in turkey is rich in jobs, but also rich in common goods such as environmental protection.
there is an urgent need to provide clear rules for european fishermen to enable the sustainable exploitation of resources.
almost all (90% in 2009) eu shipowners circumvent the general ban on the transfer of hazardous waste to non-oecd countries and dismantle their ships in, for example, india or bangladesh.
through the ship recycling regulation, which i voted for, the eu intends to establish a global list of recycling facilities meeting minimum health and environmental standards in order to avoid dismantling having dramatic consequences for the environment and workers in the major recycling countries (india, pakistan, bangladesh).
this regulation is a step forward, but i regret that parliament has refused (by 7 votes to one) to create a financial mechanism which would have enabled the polluter-pays principle to be applied by creating a recycling fund fund funded by the shipowners themselves and used to support the installations on the list (thus fighting social and environmental dumping).
the issue of recycling european ships has important implications for our environment and for respect for the most basic human rights.
90% of the world's ship-breaking activity is carried out in shipyards in india, pakistan and bangladesh, with european ship owners benefiting from lower labour costs and much less stringent environmental and labour laws.
in these circumstances, it is necessary to develop a structured ship dismantling industry in europe and to invest in new sites dedicated to this activity and to structure this industrial sector of the future, which has the potential to create sustainable jobs, ensuring environmentally friendly conditions for the dismantling of ships.
developing countries concentrate most of the activity, despite discounted environmental and social practices and legislation.
the ecological and health emergency is crying out.
in the context of the europeanisation of energy policy, renewable energies are a key element in the european energy mix.
the first steps were taken at national and local level, and then the 20% target was set for a first stage of a common european energy policy in the field of renewable energies.
this second stage will last until 2020, but already now the european parliament's report, for which i am grateful - i thank all the rapporteurs in particular - and numerous commission communications are to lay the foundations for how the further development of renewable energy sources in europe beyond 2020 should proceed: better coordinated, better coordinated, more efficient and cost-effective.
we see progress here, we can say that we are still on track overall, and we also see weaknesses, for example the 10% target in the transport sector with the weaknesses of sustainability, the commission's supplementary proposal which is currently before parliament to curb the eyelook factor and to stimulate research is a correction of our otherwise pioneering european energy policy.
i therefore believe that the subject of renewable energy sources converted into electricity is rightly given special importance in this report.
we must therefore decide at once - parliament, council, commission - on the objectives we wish to set for the next decade: reduction of co2 emissions, efficiency and renewable energy.
i believe, however, that the success story of european renewable energy provides good arguments for formulating another renewable target - perhaps not in the transport sector, as long as we are only able to produce the first generation of biofuels, perhaps only in the electricity and heat sectors.
clearly, the further development of renewable energy sources for electricity now that renewables are maturing, with a 20, 25, 30% share of the annual electricity conversion mix, requires firstly a stronger link to transport infrastructure, the development of new pan-european networks, secondly an intelligent infrastructure smart quits and smart metering , thirdly a stronger involvement of the consumer, so that he can adapt his consumption behaviour to electricity more closely to supply and demand and thus contribute to the stabilisation of the network and to increased storage capacities.
in sum, your report and decision tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, our green paper and our communications will all be incorporated into a commission proposal which will certainly lead to binding decisions on binding 2030 targets in the next european parliament, the new 2014/2015, so that investors can be sure of their plans for the further development of renewable energies!
- mr president, commissioner, you have just mentioned it, we already have reason to be concerned about massive relocations in the renewable energy sector, particularly in the case of photovoltaics.
we believe that renewable energy must be considered locally, also at european level.
it is true that europe today is having difficulty in securing its energy supply but also in remedying the infrastructure and network deficit it is experiencing.
of course we need our renewable energies, but i would like to express reservations about the binding target of 45% by 2030 for renewable energy, because the production of renewable energy, whether it be solar or wind, is already very price-relative in nature.
chinese competition, combined with the fall in subsidies for this energy, has taken a toll on european smes, and, amongst others, in my constituency unfortunately, smes have exploded because of this.
so renewables, of course, we are all in favour of them, but as part of the energy mix, too much disruption to the energy future would be an unbearable cost, which would undermine the attractiveness of many industrial sectors.
however, there has been a huge amount of progress in the field of renewable energy in the european union, with renewable energy contributing 13% of gross final energy consumption in 2011, compared to 7,9% in 2004; so, let's keep up the good work.
of course, the issue of the european union's energy supply and energy independence is crucial.
renewable energy is one of the solutions to be considered.
i think we cannot deprive ourselves of using all the sources of energy we need.
renewable energy must gradually become an increasingly important part of the energy mix.
the european council has shown its full capacity for nuisance in the trilogue by suppressing the progress made by the environmentalists in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on legal affairs.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat pollution, and it is not the commission's intention to do so.
europe acts and invests through the structural funds; eur 330 billion will be allocated to the regions between 2014 and 2020. these funds should be used to support and train the unemployed, to revitalise industrial wastelands and to invest in innovative, sustainable and competitive industries.
as you will be aware, president van rompuy has taken the initiative to organise regular thematic discussions in the european council with the aim of ensuring that all eu policies contribute to promoting the objectives of improved competitiveness, job creation and strong and sustainable economic growth.
tomorrow’s european council will discuss and establish the direction for further work on two policy areas which are of crucial importance to europe’s economy: energy and elements of taxation.
on energy, the council will build on the discussion under the irish presidency, including at the informal meeting of energy ministers in dublin recently.
ensuring the uninterrupted supply of affordable and sustainable energy is of critical interest to individual citizens who are affected directly by any interruption, or threatened interruption, in supply as well as the impact of high energy prices.
in order to secure the objective of affordable and sustainable energy, and to ensure the reliability of supply, we have to meet our objective of completing the internal energy market by 2014 and of developing greater interconnection.
interconnections and the modernisation of energy infrastructure generally require very significant investment.
this is largely expected to come from the private sector, which means we must be able to offer a predictable and reliable climate and energy policy framework in which investment can be encouraged.
the european council will set priorities for action needed to facilitate investment including the ten-e or structural funds as well as through the eib, and it will also address the regulatory environment and highlight priorities for improvement.
particular stress will be placed on the need to improve energy efficiency: the cheapest energy is that which we do not use.
innovative financing methods, more systematic supply diversification and improved liquidity in the internal energy market can all contribute to reducing energy costs.
the commission has agreed to prepare an analysis of the composition and drivers of energy prices and costs by the end of the year.
it is crucial, in the current difficult economic climate, to tackle tax evasion and fraud.
first, energy, where there is so much more benefit to be reaped – both for citizens and for the competitiveness of our businesses – from european integration and investment.
a stronger european energy policy is a particularly important tool to help achieve this.
the global energy equation is changing fast, and if we want to avoid losing in this race for resources, we will have to step up our joint european efforts.
so this is above all a debate about our energy security and our competitiveness.
energy bills are rising, adding up to a share of between 7% and 17% of average household expenditure in different member states.
in short: we are in a difficult strategic environment.
we cannot single-handedly change long-term global trends, but we can clearly influence them by stepping up our european efforts and making our energy policy more secure, competitive and sustainable.
of course, different member states have different energy mixes.
first and foremost, it is crucial that we complete our internal energy market by the end of next year, as agreed by heads of state or government.
we urgently need to implement the third energy package to keep prices for our consumers and businesses in check.
secondly, we have to push for more public and private investment in energy infrastructure – the backbone of the internal market.
the financial crisis has limited the means available for such indispensable investments, but the needs are huge: by 2020, we estimate that eur 1 trillion will be needed in the energy sector.
remember, we are expecting to devote some eur 5 billion of the next mff to energy interconnections, through the connecting europe facility, which must become operational rapidly.
member states can also devote a bigger share of their structural funds to investing in energy and energy efficiency.
it also means speaking with one european voice on global energy matters.
to conclude on energy: the right policies are in place.
we must do more together to ensure economic competitiveness and energy equity.
we are not heading towards an age of cheap energy, but we have the choice between investing scarce resources in our own sustainable and smart energy and paying for imports.
for that, we must complete our internal energy market, become more energy-efficient, invest in infrastructure and innovation, exploit renewables more cost-effectively and further diversify our external supplies.
and, yes, it is the same amount that i mentioned earlier: the investments necessary to cover the needs in the european energy sector by 2020. that is a huge amount of money to simply let fall through the net.
even more, they are essential for the credibility of our efforts to fight the crisis, for the political capital we are willing to invest in it and the legitimacy of the demands the crisis makes on those who struggle to pay their energy bills or their taxes.
they need any relief they can get – and by confronting the specific challenges of our energy markets, we can make a real difference.
take the energy sector, for example.
we agreed to complete the internal energy market by 2014 and to ensure that by 2015 there are no energy-deprived areas in europe.
we would need to invest a trillion dollars over the next ten years to avoid a serious energy crisis.
an energy project is a long-term project and europe must show that it is committed to sustainability.
since 2009, €4 billion has been used to finance 59 projects in the energy sector.
what we need is a real european energy community.
energy is no longer a purely national issue.
on energy and trade, we must speak with one voice because a stable supply of energy at low cost must be one of our priorities.
today, energy is the source of our economy.
every day we see that europe is enabling us to meet the challenges of the 21st century, even in times of crisis, whether by guaranteeing our energy independence or by allowing the creation of a genuine single market, including in taxation.
(applause) i would like to thank
for the greens/efa group mr president, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to make a preliminary remark on energy.
companies in germany, for example, are now paying less for energy and electricity than they did five years ago.
companies think they're paying too much for energy, companies think they're paying too much for workers, companies always think they're paying too much.
in fact, if you want to bet on coal, nuclear and shale gas to meet the energy challenge, you go back in time.
again, you can invest billions in energy - shale gas - which will end up costing you much more to repair what it destroys than it will bring to the well-being of european citizens.
that is why we have to say something very simple about energy: energy must be accessible to all, and the energy poverty of the poorest consumers is a real problem that must be solved, but it cannot be solved without solving the fundamental problem, without admitting that the cheapest energy is energy saving.
it's by not spending energy that you're saving money.
that is why the real european perspective is the economy and renewable energy.
- mr president, commissioners, madam president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, what a waste of time!
mr president, madam president, madam minister, commissioners, energy and the lisbon treaty give the european union new powers, particularly in the area of network security and interconnection.
energy is often war.
it's an environmental and climate problem.
the first observation is that energy is a global problem.
yes to a european energy community, but with a parliamentary dimension and not just an intergovernmental one.
secondly, it would be a great risk to link only energy and climate.
energy is also a problem which is linked to the competitiveness of our industry.
how are we going to sustain our industry with energy that is twice as expensive as the united states?
my third observation concerns energy sources and energy transitions.
we have so many sources: fossil energy, of course, but also nuclear, hydropower, solar.
this will include better use of existing resources, for example by avoiding duplication of eurocontrol's and the agency's work on safety or environmental issues.
every effort must be made to avoid ecological disasters such as the one that occurred in 2010 when the deepwater horizon oil rig exploded in the gulf of mexico.
i voted in favour of his proposals, which aim in particular to strengthen the liability of oil companies in the event of a major ecological disaster by requiring them to prove that they have sufficient financial capacity to bear the costs of a possible incident.
this is the price we must pay to avoid new disasters with unbearable ecological costs.
i voted in favour of this text, which represents a step forward in the area of the liability of operators for damage to the environment.
for example, we were only 153 members of parliament to vote in favour of a moratorium on mining activities in the immediate vicinity of areas that are particularly touristic, unstable or where the impact on coastal communities and the environment would be devastating.
although the union remains a pioneer in environmental protection, the scope of this text remains limited in that the risk of major accidents is still not eliminated.
many incidents with massive environmental consequences, such as the bp oil rig explosion in the gulf of mexico in 2010, have shown the need for strict regulation of offshore activities.
it was imperative that parliament should address this issue to avoid major accidents on drilling rigs with serious environmental and economic consequences.
environmental amendments were voted on in the envi committee, including a moratorium on drilling in the arctic and the introduction of financial and civil liability for industrialists.
offshore oil and gas activities can be the cause of real disasters: an accident can destroy an entire coastal or marine environment, and the economies that depend on it.
by emphasizing the special attention that must be paid to the arctic, this text makes the choice that europeans expect from us for the protection of this unique, but so vulnerable and threatened, ecosystem.
in the face of the scale of the damage caused by the 2010 bp deepwater horizon oil rig fire in the gulf of mexico, it was vital that the eu put in place measures to ensure the safety of offshore oil and gas platforms with very high environmental risks.
it is in the name of preserving the environment and the precautionary principle that i voted in favour of this text, which will make it possible to increase the safety of these platforms and also to take greater account of the victims of disasters.
the first amendment adopted by the commission is more than harmful to the protection of the environment and the safety of workers on the platforms, by turning the draft regulation into a directive.
but in such a sensitive field of activity, any accident would have irreversible consequences for our environment, leading to a new ecological catastrophe.
indeed, the risks associated with these activities are of major importance as evidenced by the dramatic environmental and economic consequences of the deepwater horizon case in the gulf of mexico in 2010. regulation at eu level is therefore needed to regulate oil and gas extraction activities in european seas.
on the contrary, instead of protecting the environment, the safety of workers and the rights of citizens, the report protects the big oil companies and their interests.
it seems that the gulf of mexico oil spill and its devastating effects on the environment and on the surrounding populations were not a lesson learned.
the european union has learned from the environmental disaster caused by the bp oil rig fire in the gulf of mexico in 2010. i therefore voted in favour of this report which sets out stricter safety rules for offshore platforms.
these standards also provide for the obligation to study the financial solvency of applicants in the event of economic and ecological damage.
it is designed to protect the environment and ensure the safety of the personnel working there.
the 2010 disaster in the united states, which saw some 780 million litres of oil spilled into the gulf of mexico, is a reminder of the need to ensure the sustainable operation of this industry.
such measures seem to me appropriate and just, and i would be of the opinion that we should take comparable measures concerning the safety of ships at sea by recognising in european law the concepts of 'ecological damage' and 'chain of responsibility', as recognised by the court of cassation.
the moratorium on drilling in the arctic zone, which threatens the biodiversity of the region, was abandoned following lobbying by the oil giants.
once again, the interests of the big companies take precedence over the protection of the environment and the interests of the people.
this text is therefore a missed opportunity to defend biodiversity and to avoid major disasters, such as the one that occurred in the gulf of mexico in 2010 on the basis of british petroleum's drilling.
we all remember the image of the 2010 oil spill in the gulf of mexico and the environmental disaster it caused.
they also serve as an example at international level and encourage other countries to align themselves with the eu's leading environmental standards.
industry and activities at sea are a response to the challenge of eu energy independence; so let us be careful that they do not endanger marine, marine and coastal ecosystems.
i voted in favour of this report on the eu's renewable energy perspectives in the internal energy market.
this was in response to the commission communication 'renewable energies: a major player in the european energy market'.
according to the report, the share of renewable energy will be at least 30% of the eu's energy mix by 2030. the text also stresses the need to strengthen our infrastructure by modernising the various networks.
i am in favour of quantified targets for 2030 for renewable energy but considering that it is too early to set this target now, i have decided to abstain on an amendment calling on the european commission to propose such a quantified target now.
for the same reason, i have chosen to reject an amendment proposing a binding target of 45% renewable energy by 2030.
in writing.
the debate on the energy transition is in full swing in france and in our neighbours: germany, the united kingdom, poland - to name just a few.
while the stated ambition of the european council is to build a european energy policy, the european parliament is leading the way.
following up on the european commission's 2050 roadmap, we have today adopted an own-initiative report on 'today's challenges and prospects for renewable energy in the internal energy market'.
i co-signed an important amendment, which was the focus of the debate, which was in favour of a binding target for renewable energy (r) by 2030 and to set this target between 40% and 45% of the union's energy mix.
i welcome the adoption of the principle of a binding target - so that we can continue our progress towards the energy transition.
i voted in favour of the new strategy to ensure that renewable energy is an integral part of the european energy market by 2020. the current support mechanisms will need to be improved and made more transparent in order to strengthen coherence within the internal market.
i voted in favour of a binding target of 30% of europe's energy supply from renewable sources by 2050. this objective seems to me to be quite proportionate and achievable, given the current financial and economic difficulties.
i supported the reul report on the current challenges and prospects for renewable energy in the european energy market.
it proposes to draw up a precise roadmap to achieve an increased share of renewable energy in our energy mix by 2050. pragmatic and realistic, i agree with the objective of convergence of national models.
to meet the renewable energy challenge and achieve a real european energy market, clear guidelines must be set today to enable all actors to anticipate and participate in these crucial developments.
this ambitious text sets out our essential requirements, including the need to strengthen cooperation between the member states in order to achieve greater consistency in our energy choices.
and europe must continue to be at the forefront of the world's ecological transition.
renewable energy is the future of the european union's energy supply and equipment.
thanks to the policy pursued by the union since 2007 under its '20-20-20' commitment, which provides for 20% of the energy consumed in europe to come from renewable sources by 2020, the dependence of the european territory on conventional energy sources has already been reduced.
the dynamism of the renewable energy sector has also helped to create 500,000 jobs in europe.
the union should be able to set itself an even more ambitious target for 2030 to increase the share of renewable energy.
in addition to the creation of sustainable jobs, this ambition should have positive effects for european industry in terms of prices, the improvement of existing technologies and the development of new technologies.
it is therefore vital that support for the development of renewable energies be provided within the framework of an ambitious common industrial policy.
i welcome the adoption of this own-initiative report which calls for greater convergence between the 170 renewable energy support schemes in the different member states and for the development of an appropriate and better integrated european support scheme for the period after 2020. the european union must make a firm commitment to decarbonising its economy, but all renewables are not the panacea.
before deciding to commit to a quantified renewable energy target for 2030, let us first make sure that we unlock the funding for the infrastructure, networks and storage technologies that are essential for the integration of renewables into the european energy market.
in addition, technological neutrality must continue to be guaranteed and safe nuclear energy retains its strategic importance for european energy policy in the years to come.
in order to prepare for the major choices of 2030 and 2050, the european union's energy and environmental policy must be linked to our industrial policy with the objectives of reducing the cost of energy and defending competitiveness and employment.
every time this parliament raises the energy problem, it is first of all to call for more competition and liberalization in the sector, and in particular the abolition of regulated tariffs.
the commission has also taken the view that the community's energy policy should be based on a common energy policy.
finally, i would like to say that consumers are benefiting from this, which i deny in view of my own electricity bill and the kafkaesque difficulties in finding the right interlocutor at the slightest difficulty since the commission imposed the separation between the network operator and the energy supplier.
i voted against this report on renewable energy.
it calls for binding renewable energy targets by 2030, but does not give any quantified targets.
i had co-signed an amendment to adopt an ambitious and binding target of 45% renewable energy by 2030. only such an objective would ensure that the eu can get close to 100% renewable energy by 2050. however, this amendment was rejected, which is why i voted against it.
i voted in favour of this resolution which provides for the adoption of a new binding and more ambitious target for the share of renewable energy (rea) in the european energy mix by 2030. this must be raised above the 30% proposed by the european commission.
the european union must give its full support to the enrs because they are not only necessary to preserve our environment but are also an essential and sustainable lever for growth and jobs in europe.
the european parliament therefore calls for the development of an integrated and sustainable european strategy for green energy, which takes account of the differences between national systems, promotes access to capital and encourages investment in this sector of the future.
renewable energies now represent only a small part of the total energy in the internal energy market.
the use of these renewable energies must replace in the near future the use of conventional energy, on which the european union is now dependent.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of the european union's energy sector.
this will also have positive effects in terms of combating climate change and protecting the environment (reducing air pollution and waste generation, for example).
energy policy is a key issue for the eu and that is why i voted in favour of the report on renewable energy in the european internal energy market on tuesday.
it is important for the european union to continue its efforts towards the use of green energy.
i voted in favour of a text to make the renewable energy market more efficient.
this includes harmonising member states' support for the renewable energy sector, which takes a wide variety of forms.
this lack of coherence and transparency is detrimental to the development of the renewable energy market, and affects competition and investor confidence.
like the commission communication it defends, this report is full of good intentions in favour of renewable energy.
it contains some positive points, such as support for geothermal energy, which is still too little used, or reducing consumption.
but all this is only to be understood within the framework of the single energy market, where all social and ecological considerations are subject to the law of free and undistorted competition.
the text also very explicitly supports the end of regulated energy prices and the elimination of any subsidies which could harm the sacred and holy free competition.
i have decided to vote against the report on the challenges and prospects for renewable energy in the european market because i believe it is very insufficient.
the target of 40 to 45% renewable energy by 2030 was not included, which would have been a strong signal.
the text also supports free competition in the energy market, at the expense of ecological and social considerations.
i personally consider renewable energy to be essential.
they are alternatives to fossil fuels that are essential to combat climate change.
goodwill speeches will not be enough to promote the necessary transition to a low-carbon economy.
that is why i am calling for ambitious renewable energy targets by 2030 and 2050 and for a european policy that actually supports clean energy, not just free competition.
no one can now question the legitimacy of renewable energy.
the question of the costs of developing these sources of energy, their profitability and the time needed to pay off the investment required to implement them must be considered.
therefore, setting binding targets and figures in a timetable for the share of renewable energy in the european energy mix seems to me to be useless, even absurd.
this would be to forget that the definition of the energy mix remains the responsibility of the member states!
on the other hand, price deregulation would be absurd if it had the effect of restricting the access of disadvantaged households to energy.
while i support some of the lines of the resolution, such as the development of a long-term strategy for the promotion of renewable energy in the fight against global warming, or the consideration of the variety of mechanisms for supporting these energies, i cannot subscribe to a policy focused on the role of the market and competition in the development and integration of these energies, on the further liberalisation of the gas and electricity sectors.
the commission has also proposed to remove state aid for renewable energy where it is likely to distort competition.
and worse, to fight energy poverty, all that is required is to compensate for the increase in energy prices.
on the eve of the european summit, where the heads of state or government of the member states will give the broad guidelines of eu energy policy, the european parliament reaffirms the objective of completing the european energy market and thus liberalising the sector.
faced with the environmental and climate challenges around us, eu governments have embarked on the most sustainable energy policy possible.
the eu has thus set standards for renewable energy sources to be an integral part of the european energy market.
while the principle of support for clean energy is clearly stated, the various implementation mechanisms are extremely opaque, with no less than 170 mechanisms.
the aim of this report is therefore to address this inefficiency and to develop a simplified support scheme common to all eu member states for renewable energy.
this flexibility is designed to take account of developments in the industrial energy sector and its competitiveness, and thus avoid penalising eu member states in the global economic market.
global renewable energy markets are growing and creating significant benefits for european industry in terms of jobs, prices and support for new technologies.
while the spread of new technologies, combined with the emergence of new business models, also implies a change in the media environment, it must remain accessible to the greatest number of people and report information in the most objective way.
the vote of this european parliament resolution followed the publication in february 2012 of a european commission white paper on a strategy for adequate, safe and sustainable pensions.
one third of the eu population is over 55 years old, so the very sustainability of pension systems is at stake as public finances are constrained.
to meet the pension challenge, we must initiate and pursue the necessary reforms that will enable us to maintain the sustainability of our social models.
i therefore voted in favour of this text initiating a european strategy to establish a sustainable and sustainable pension funding system.
we therefore recommend that the member states ensure a sustainable and secure approach to pensions, combining pensions financed by the state and those provided for by collective agreements.
i voted in favour of the report on adequate, secure and sustainable pensions for our fellow europeans.
while pensioners represent a significant proportion of the population in the european union, the crisis has magnified the problem of ageing in europe and the need to ensure sustainable pension systems.
i voted in favour of the report on adequate, safe and sustainable pensions.
with one third of the eu population over the age of 55, the sustainability of pension systems is under threat.
the report is therefore a decoy and does nothing to ensure 'adequate, secure and sustainable' pensions for european citizens.
until now, the pension issue has been resolved only at national level, but the economies are interconnected and it is no longer possible for each country to guarantee the adequacy, security and sustainability of its social protection systems on its own.
i therefore supported the european parliament's resolution which recommends that the eu and the member states assess the current and future sustainability and adequacy of pension systems and identify best practices and policy strategies that can ensure the safest and most cost-effective pension provision possible.
i have chosen to vote against the report on 'adequate, safe and sustainable' pensions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the first way to ensure more efficient tax collection is, in my view, to bring together the many tax systems towards a fair and sustainable european taxation for our companies.
i am particularly in favour of tax measures to encourage research and development and environmental taxes proposed on the 'polluter pays' principle.
tax incentives for research and development should also be strengthened as the report recommends, as this is the main source of future growth, as should a real rethink on environmental taxation.
i voted in favour of this text which calls for the coordination of european tax policies with a view to promoting sustainable economic growth.
the report, with all its good intentions, is far from offering satisfactory solutions to stimulate the economy in the european union in a sustainable and responsible way.
in a globalised environment, no country can today ensure the security of its supply chain alone, so international cooperation is essential.
i therefore ask the council to reorient the draft mandate, because for this agreement, as for the others, we want social, health and environmental harmonization to always come from the top.
global trade must be in the service of sustainable development.
how can natural resources be managed in the face of climate change?
it must reform its trade policy by turning its back on the social and environmental at-least-so-called king that reigns today, and do so by relying on a new cooperation which would introduce visas for entry into europe taking into account the improvement of security, social progress, the increase in wages and the possibility for these bangladeshi workers to organise and defend themselves.
but let us not forget that in addition to corporate social responsibility there is also an ecological responsibility, which unfortunately has not been clearly indicated in this debate.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
free trade and energy resources are not worth more to me than the lives of my fellow men.
in addition to the question of the cultural exception in parliament's text, the agreement should provide for the preservation of our agricultural model and environmental standards.
social, health and environmental harmonisation must always come from the top.
from health and environmental regulations to the protection of personal data, public services, defence, gmos, etc., it is clear that we do not have the same requirements as the americans.
i will remain involved throughout the negotiations to ensure that all our expectations are taken into account, in particular to preserve the quality of european agriculture and products, to engage in better cooperation in the field of energy and more effective regulatory coordination.
in addition to the audiovisual and cultural exceptions, which we are asking to be excluded from the negotiating mandate, the agreement must preserve our agriculture and in particular exclude gmos and cloning from the agreement, as well as our health and environmental rules.
for this agreement, as for all the others that the european union will have to negotiate, i hope that social, health and environmental harmonization will always be done from the top.
the draft trade and investment agreement with the united states is an economic, social and ecological mistake.
it will lead to further relocations to the detriment of the ecological and social quality of production.
since us environmental and social standards are in most cases less stringent than those in europe, this will bring down all european regulations.
this large transatlantic market would lead to harmonization of our regulations, which would have dramatic effects on social, economic, environmental and health levels.
in addition to the audiovisual and cultural exceptions, which we are asking to be excluded from the negotiating mandate, the agreement must protect our agriculture and in particular exclude gmos and cloning, as well as our health and environmental rules.
we have not succeeded in excluding from the negotiations public services, social, environmental, health and food standards (e.g.
while i am pleased that a majority of members voted in favour of excluding cultural and audiovisual content services from the negotiating mandate, too many points remain unresolved (regulations on health, environmental standards and public procurement, etc.).
there is no question of abandoning the european social and environmental standards, which are already badly broken, or public procurement to north american multinationals.
it has to face particular environmental and energy challenges and overcome natural handicaps.
these strategies aim to coordinate funding and actions to meet the challenges of mobility, energy security and environmental protection, due to the structural complexities of this mountainous area.
these countries, regardless of their status, face common environmental, economic, social or demographic problems.
we expect the commission to present an action plan for the region which will make it possible to better coordinate european funding, particularly that of cohesion policy, to implement joint projects in order to better protect this unique environment and take account of its specific challenges.
the concept of macro-region is well suited to the alpine area as it aims to define a large territorial area, beyond national and administrative borders, facing common realities, and relevant for the coherence of policies and projects according to an overall vision of territorial cooperation, in the service of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in the face of the many challenges facing mountain regions (energy, transport, climate change, etc.
following the example of the strategy adopted for the danube and baltic sea regions, a strategy for the alps would allow for better crossborder cooperation and better access to european funding, and would therefore make it possible to mobilise all the resources for optimal territorial development, taking into account the geographical, ecological and socioeconomic specificities of the region.
the alps are facing major environmental challenges (the source of glaciers, fragile ecosystems), sociological (the exodus of young people, the ageing of the population), economic, etc.
this strategy will create synergies to improve transport and energy infrastructure, develop tourism, promote mobility and cultural exchanges while preserving local specificities such as traditional forms of agricultural land use.
environment, water management and transport are all policies which will become more efficient and productive if they bring together all the actors concerned.
in the face of this globalisation of exploitation, we propose ecological and social visas which tax goods produced in conditions of labour law violations.
workers who, in an undignified work environment and for meager wages, manufacture consumer goods for the west.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
they operate with drug trafficking, cigarette trafficking, but they also deceive consumers with low-cost products that are dangerous to human health and the environment, with counterfeit medicines and everyday products, pesticides, etc.
it is a failure for employment, a failure for respect for social and environmental regulations, a failure for europe which, because it does not have the competence to make the market fair, ends up trading unemployed people here for road-traffic-laden people there.
in this context i welcome, in particular, that parliament has identified the key sectors of the financial sector, digital services, energy and transport.
the report also rightly insists on the two key challenges of meeting the needs of vulnerable consumers and of moving towards more sustainable patterns of consumption.
today, many europeans can no longer afford to have access to decent housing in the private sector because of the soaring costs of housing and energy.
finally, between 50 and 125 million europeans are affected by energy poverty.
investing in social housing today is the first step to get out of the crisis, the economic crisis, the social crisis and the ecological crisis.
because housing is not only an indispensable social buffer in times of crisis, but also because it is an essential pillar for the recovery of employment, in particular local employment, which cannot be outsourced to green sectors - and here, i insist - in particular, a lever to fight against climate change.
the energy transition also involves the renovation, particularly thermal, of these habitats.
environmental proposals have been put forward and they are moving in the right direction.
they will need support to combat waste and encourage short-circuited production and consumption.
it is a lever against the social crisis, which reaffirms the right to housing as a fundamental right, and it is a lever against the ecological crisis, since the fight against energy poverty is linked to the fight against climate change and allows us to help the poorest households.
in the interest of safeguarding the biodiversity of our seas and oceans, i voted in favour of this report which sets out the european commission's detailed action for the long-term management of cod stocks.
this text will make it possible, in particular, to adapt the fishing mortality rates and the levels of spawning stock biomass to scientific knowledge in order to ensure the real sustainability of our marine resources.
i welcome the adoption of this own-initiative report which makes proactive proposals in response to the commission's roadmap for informed, sustainable and resource-efficient consumption choices.
the balance sheet of liberalization and privatization, particularly in transport and energy, shows us the consequences of the dogma of the law of the market alone.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment and for the protection of the environment.
in a fragile economic environment, efforts must be stepped up to combat this phenomenon and protect honest european workers.
as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on energy, research and technology, i welcome these results.
the directive replaces a 2004 text that could never be implemented because of its rigidity on mri (magnetic resonance imaging) which, despite their high emissions, are essential to modern medicine.
in order to safeguard the biodiversity of our seas and oceans, i voted in favour of this report, which amends a 2008 regulation establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks.
i also think it is necessary that this text should in future be included in the framework of multi-fisheries or multi-species plans in order to deal with the question of the marine ecosystem as a whole.
it is important to act now to ensure that mafia organizations gain ground in southern europe and create a climate of terror.
i also welcome the emphasis on quality of life, energy poverty, the need to ensure social diversity and the consideration of ecological factors in construction.
energy efficiency is a matter of building and renovating homes.
meeting the need for affordable housing, particularly in densely populated urban areas, will also facilitate access to jobs in large cities and create high-quality green jobs that are not offshoring, through the development of green building and renovation pathways to make housing less energy intensive.
new investment in this area represents a significant economic, social and environmental leverage at a time when more than 80 million europeans are at risk of poverty.
in addition to the need to promote social inclusion, social housing is an important economic lever as it boosts the construction sector and reduces the energy bill through energy-efficient housing.
in the face of the proliferation of national austerity measures and the increase in housing and energy costs, it was important that the european union proposed measures.
at the same time, it can meet the energy challenge of the europe 2020 strategy by increasing the number and improving the accessibility of sustainable buildings.
in making its recommendations and providing solutions to problems, the ep must take account of the planned multiannual eu budget for 2014-2020. it is therefore not acceptable to finance, for example, the establishment of a housing monitoring centre, which would be responsible for statistical data collection and research into energy poverty issues, as envisaged in the proposal.
it is therefore urgent to ensure that there is sufficient supply of affordable, quality social housing to cope with health risks, just as it is urgent to combat energy poverty.
to remedy this, i must say that we have not spared our energy, our time or our commitment, nor have the rapporteur, sylvie guillaume, whom i thank and congratulate.
yet, all this work gives the unfortunate impression of waste.
last week, the commission concluded in the convergence report that latvia has achieved a high degree of sustainable economic convergence and is ready to adopt the euro on 1 january next year.
it emphasises the integrity of the euro and proves that determined policy action for sustainable public finances and sustainable growth and job creation do generate concrete results.
the european parliament voted on wednesday 12 june on the calendar of plenary sessions in 2014. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
this text enables the commission to take the necessary measures to deal with the consequences of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing for biodiversity and food security.
these illegal activities are lucrative because they allow their perpetrators to sell fish cheaper by avoiding quotas and environmental criteria.
the report adopted today takes up many of the points for which the french socialists have been fighting since 2011. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
it also provides for mandatory participation by the member states in the fund, which is essential to ensure its sustainability and to avoid blocking minorities.
this text, which was the result of long negotiations between the european council, the european commission and the european parliament, preserves the sustainability of reception systems in each member state and ensures respect for and safety of migrants.
this approach, which aims to make companies managing strategic resources and national governments more accountable, is therefore perfectly in line with my concept of sustainable and supportive development.
through increasingly harmonised and simplified compatibility rules, we are seeking to create an environment conducive to the prosperity of our 23 million smes in the european union, which are the lifeblood of our economy.
but it is the cap itself that needs to be changed to make it fairer, and also to provide better quality food while respecting the ecosystem.
while confirming the method of calculation used for the 2014 elections, the council also stressed that for the 2019-2024 and subsequent legislative elections, the distribution of seats should be carried out in an objective, fair, sustainable and transparent manner, reflecting the principle of degressive proportionality.
the future distribution can only be done in an objective, fair, sustainable and transparent way, reflecting the principle of degressive proportionality, all of which are elements to prevent any unfair reform in the future.
they are the future of our society, let us not sacrifice them, let us invest today in the social areas that will ensure our cohesion and our sustainable growth.
the mobilisation of european funds in these areas must become an investment for sustainable eu growth.
i share the analysis that 'the application of cohesion policy and the rules on state aid schemes to strengthen local and regional investment and public-private partnerships is of fundamental importance for promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion, regional and local development, smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and job creation'.
in this report we stressed the priority to be given to consumer protection, closer monitoring of certain sectors (pharmaceuticals, health, insurance) and the need to improve the coherence of competition policy in certain sectors, in particular transport, electronic payments, energy, while taking into account the impact of this policy on employment and social affairs.
this huge waste, which costs the european economy nearly €150 billion a year, must be stopped.
the question we must therefore ask ourselves as europeans, in this parliament, in the council and in the commission, is what can we do to ensure that this situation, which remains open, sensitive, dynamic and full of energy, which is expressed in taksim square, develops into a real deepening of democracy.
the success of the international donor conference confirmed the european union's support for the malian government's sustainable recovery plan.
no, additional funds will not make up for the waste of a bad war.
there is no development without sustainable development.
sustainable use of natural resources and energy is essential to achieving a world free of hunger and poverty.
this new agenda will also have to address the new challenges that have emerged over the last 15 years, with the fight against inequality and sustainability to be at the heart of our concerns by 2030.
member of the commission.
second is the sustainability element.
sustainability, in its most limited form, is always seen as environmental sustainability, but there is also social sustainability.
that is also an issue of sustainability.
the report addresses environmental, social and also economic sustainability, because there are limits to that.
for instance, it puts international aid effectiveness principles into practice to seek greater impact and value for money; it promotes regional integration and trade issues; it highlights the interdependence between security and development, the importance of the mdgs and the global challenge of climate change, and it recognises the role of national parliaments, local authorities, civil society and the private sector.
in order for this partnership to be successful, it will be necessary to stimulate intra-regional trade, particularly in the fields of energy and transport.
the epa aims to promote sustainable growth by offering third countries privileged access to the union market.
the economic partnership agreements are not in any way called into question, the control of so-called 'illegal' migrants is strengthened, and the additions so much vaunted on the fight against climate change are actually confined to the sole participation of the acp states in the carbon market, which has shown its inefficiency and dangers.
but now we need that money to make it possible for millions of africans to lift themselves out of poverty and lay the foundations for sustainable and inclusive development.
reform of the financial sector will ensure its stability, which is a necessary condition for the return of sustainable economic growth and employment in the eu.
the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the aim of this report, along with the figures put forward by the commission, was to assess the current state of transatlantic relations - economic, trade, political, environmental and social - not only with the united states and the european union but also with the entire american continent (north and south), and to identify the elements which could strengthen them.
the report thus mentions the areas where enhanced cooperation will be essential during the negotiations: governance, human rights, security, energy, social and economic issues, the closure of guantanamo.
i agreed on the need to strengthen eu-us cooperation, particularly in the areas of governance, human rights, security and energy, in order to adopt common strategies and to form a 'bloc' to maintain a strong presence on the international stage in the face of new emerging players such as china.
in many areas, such as global governance, human rights, international security and climate change, europeans and americans can further deepen their cooperation.
he grants blind satisfaction to the us, including less credible ones such as welcoming "president obama's renewed commitment to the fight against climate change".
this first political step must be accompanied by a clear and sustainable development strategy that allows mali to provide the services essential to the well-being of its people - and thus to the stability of the country.
the commission welcomes the efforts and progress made over the past 10 years by afghanistan, the eu's financial contribution to the reconstruction and development of afghanistan since 2002 and remains committed to the peaceful transition of the country and its comprehensive and sustainable development.
the current targets do not sufficiently address the root causes of poverty or environmental damage.
i voted in favour of the millennium development goals, which list the new challenges ahead, such as poverty eradication, good governance, environmental sustainability and the eu's position on the future development framework for developing countries.
in this context, we have emphasised the principles of human rights, equality, non-discrimination, sustainability, good governance and coherence of development policies.
- mr president, it is curious that mr cabrnoch should say that he is not the author of the resolution and that his group has listed him as the author, but i shall not waste my time on such details.
how many human and environmental disasters, how many catastrophic floods could have been avoided if we had seriously fought against dumping, which is one of the weapons of ultra-liberal globalisation!
mr president, the proposals for legislation we are discussing are supposedly intended to contribute to road safety and environmental protection.
firstly to generate sustainable economic growth and secondly to prove to our citizens they could depend on us to do what we said we would do at the meeting of heads of state and government and that was to sever the link between banks and sovereigns.
it will greatly enhance our efforts to transform our agriculture and fisheries industries into sustainable, green sectors for growth and jobs in the future.
i voted in favour of ratifying the protocol of amendments to the vienna convention convention establishing a system of compensation for victims of damage caused by nuclear accidents and a special regime for civil liability in the field of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
finally, europe must work within the international civil aviation organisation to create a global system for the exchange of co2 emissions.
however, the exposure of individual member states' ace activities during 2011 amounted to around eur 250 billion, including the 260 reports of transactions with high environmental impacts.
in addition, the assessment of the environmental risks associated with the exports of the member states must be given special attention, with a view to establishing a comprehensive strategy to reduce the carbon footprint of our economic activities.
but it does not address the ecological impasse created by the priority given to exports, which multiply the ecological footprint of production.
the report also welcomes the eu's efforts to put trade policy at the service of human rights and the fight against climate change.
i am not going to vote for a report which, despite its good intentions, ignores such important issues as the environment and freedom.
but these funds are mainly used to finance projects which are not transparent and whose dramatic environmental and social consequences are well known.
the european union has 110 000 public foundations in the fields of research, education, social services, health, culture, respect for human rights and environmental protection.
it recalled that foundations play an important role in the european union and are active in various sectors such as training, research, social action, health, environmental protection, etc.
the non-normative memorandum has three objectives: the protection of human life at sea, the prevention of marine pollution by ships (such as the erika disaster), and the respect of standards of living and working on board ships.
this is obvious if we are to protect not only the seafarers, their lives and working conditions, but also our marine environment.
the text lays down minimum standards for working conditions on board ships, imposes greater controls on ships that do not meet european standards and ensures greater environmental protection.
the application of this text will enable our fellow citizens to live in greater environmental security while ensuring optimal working conditions for maritime workers.
to compensate for the lack of application of these common rules and the risks this poses in terms of worker safety and the deterioration of the marine environment, we want to allow national authorities to inspect all vessels calling at european ports, especially those from third countries.
this report is part of the 'technical inspection' package, which aims to promote and enforce the rules on the technical inspection of motor vehicles and their trailers in order to improve road safety and environmental protection.
roadworthiness testing is an important tool for ensuring the safety of european roads and for protecting the lives of europeans and our environment.
the aim is to strengthen controls on vehicles operated by companies with poor safety records and thus to reward companies that take safety and environmental protection into account when operating their vehicles.
this report is part of the 'technical inspection' package, which aims to promote and enforce the rules on the technical inspection of motor vehicles and their trailers in order to improve road safety and environmental protection.
this report is part of the 'technical inspection' package, which aims to promote and enforce the rules on the technical inspection of motor vehicles and their trailers in order to improve road safety and environmental protection.
in order to reduce the number of road accidents in europe and to ensure better protection of the environment, we have decided to increase the frequency and to impose stricter rules on the technical inspection of passenger cars, buses and coaches, and heavy goods vehicles.
despite its desire to give priority to harmonisation of technical inspection standards at the top, to maintain the sovereignty of the member states in the implementation of inspections, to improve prevention rather than repression, and to ensure the independence of inspectors, this report largely gives priority to safety standards over environmental standards.
for the first time, this draft directive provides within two years for a strategy to combat water pollution by pharmaceutical products, which, for reasons of public health, is a major step forward.
in this sense, i support updating standards and setting environmental standards for priority substances.
since chemical pollution of surface waters is a threat to the aquatic environment and to human health, a review of priority substances (including 3 pharmaceuticals) has been carried out.
environmental quality standards (eqs) have been established for these new substances, while the eqs for existing substances have been revised.
in approving the addition of 12 new substances to the list of substances that may pose a risk to the aquatic environment, i voted in favour of a stricter water policy.
these substances, which represent a potential risk to the environment, will have to meet certain concentration levels in water in order to preserve surface waters, which are the first victims of water pollution.
we have decided to adopt new and more stringent environmental quality standards to protect the environment in the long term.
good information for europeans is one of the keys to the success of our strategy to combat water pollution, which directly affects their environment and health.
i voted in favour of this text because it envisages the establishment of a coherent sustainable water management policy.
by increasing the number of substances recognised as harmful to the aquatic environment, the text will lead to greater environmental protection and the conservation of healthy and clean water.
this text will thus allow our fellow citizens to live in a cleaner environment by limiting chemical pollution.
i voted in favour of this text, which provides for improving the existing water policy by amending the water framework directive and the environmental quality standards directive.
the text also provides for the addition to the eu list of 12 new priority substances that may pose a risk to the aquatic environment and the addition of three pharmaceutical substances to the watch list of emerging pollutants.
i voted in favour of parliament's position on the european water policy, as regards priority substances withdrawn from the market, given the harmful environmental impact they represent.
water is an indispensable resource for man and his environment.
water, soil and groundwater are constantly and increasingly polluted by chemical and pharmaceutical residues, endangering both the health of citizens and the protection of the environment.
i also object to the postponement of the deadlines for compliance with the environmental quality standards for new substances.
ensuring clean water is essential for the environment and human health.
with the text adopted today - which i supported - twelve new substances will be added to the european list of substances considered to be a risk to the aquatic environment.
it is in this sense that measures must be taken on priority substances to combat water pollution.
climate change and the increase in global population are making this resource more vulnerable, and we need to find a solution for its sustainable management.
the european union must therefore develop a strategic and sustainable water policy in close cooperation with the international community.
implementing effective measures to limit chemical pollution of water is an important challenge for the sustainable management of this common good.
the council, the european parliament and the commission agreed, in the context of the revision of the water framework directive and the environmental quality standards directive, to add 15 new priority substances presenting a significant risk to the list of 33 pollutants already monitored and controlled in surface waters in the union.
the text we voted today will thus support the research, environmental and tourism sectors, which must play a key role in the recovery of a strong and competitive european economy.
it was therefore important that, in this report on blue growth, they should be clearly identified as an essential element of the european strategy, as the union's relays in the world, by their expertise in seaside tourism, thanks to the panoply of renewable energies at their disposal, on the basis of the important discoveries in the field of mineral and energy deposits.
the sustainability criterion should therefore be at the heart of maritime activities, as they are based on extremely fragile environments, with the aim of avoiding that some negative externalities related to maritime activities are harmful to others.
the situation requires sustained and careful management, otherwise we are headed for an ecological and human disaster.
that is why in this report we are advocating the sustainable and responsible management of our coastlines, combining infrastructure, social considerations and respect for our waters.
seasonal tourism, respect for biodiversity, training of seafarers and the need to create a single maritime area are all areas where the union can add value.
the european commission has integrated this idea of blue growth around five key areas: blue energy, aquaculture, maritime and coastal tourism, marine mining and blue biotechnology.
the objective of the blue economy is to achieve a healthy maritime economy, a source of innovation, growth and sustainable development.
the issue of appropriate qualifications, access to venture capital, fragmentation of marine data, environmental challenges and the complexity of planning mechanisms.
the report identified two main objectives: integrated sustainable growth but also growth coupled with a high employment rate.
sustainable and integrated blue growth, but accompanied by a high employment rate, is needed to increase the attractiveness of employment in this sector.
assainie, blue growth can be a source of innovation, growth and sustainable development.
i voted in favour of this report on blue growth because i share the rapporteur's main objectives, namely sustainable and integrated growth with high employment in sectors linked to the coastal economy.
similarly, it is crucial to plan a sustainable shipping policy to preserve vulnerable marine ecosystems, while taking a realistic approach to these issues, so as not to burden economic activity.
i welcome the approach taken in this report, which puts our ambitions for growth and jobs at the forefront, while linking them to our imperatives for protecting the environment and combating climate change.
there is still a great deal of untapped growth potential for coastal regions and the marine sector and, as this text rightly emphasises, this is an opportunity for women and young people to seize: vocational training and the integration of new entrepreneurs is indeed a key issue, to which we must give full importance if we want to create a blue growth that is both sustainable and dynamic.
i voted in favour of this text because i believe it is essential to ensure greater european cooperation on the sustainable and ecological exploitation of the marine environment.
the text proposes in particular the promotion of environmentally friendly marine fuels and the expansion of recycling and waste management industries, which makes it possible to envisage a healthier and more environmentally friendly economy.
the report made proposals to improve sustainable growth in the union's marine sector, maritime transport and tourism.
it ensures that workers in the maritime sector are provided with the skills needed to ensure growth with a high employment rate and aims to ensure the integrated sustainability of this growth.
the aim of this text is to establish a comprehensive plan for innovative and sustainable development in order to mobilise the economic capacities of these geographical areas effectively and fully.
improving maritime transport, developing renewable energy sources on the high seas, including wind power, aquaculture, maritime and coastal tourism, marine mining and blue biotechnology, are promising sectors that should boost economic activity and innovation in these regions of europe.
through this project, we want to promote the establishment of integrated and sustainable growth that will benefit a large number of europeans.
the question is not whether man will exploit the oceans, but to ensure that he does so in a sustainable way.
it is a matter of survival for our ecosystem and therefore for humanity.
the socialists have placed a great deal of emphasis on the sustainable management of the marine environment and the pool of highly skilled jobs in the fisheries sector.
it encourages sustainable practices, makes the professions in the sector more attractive, supports innovation and stresses the protection of the environment and biodiversity.
the environmental impact of the exploitation of marine resources is a leitmotif throughout the report.
environmental issues are ubiquitous, from the concept of 'blue energy' with wind energy at the centre, but also through the effective management of marine waste and the promotion of organic aquaculture.
the text envisages a better use of resources, allowing both food security and the use of renewable resources for industrial purposes, while ensuring environmental protection.
this text will ensure the intelligent and sustainable management of resources, in the interests of all.
it is now necessary to defend the richness of their governance model, which not only offers the conditions for sustainable growth but also respects social objectives.
in this period europe must support all forms of enterprise which make it possible to preserve employment in a sustainable way.
in this period europe must support all forms of enterprise which make it possible to preserve employment in a sustainable way.
the extraordinary biodiversity enjoyed by many european territories is an asset that must be given greater prominence in growth strategies.
the eu, a pioneer in co2 reduction, is working towards its own target of a 20% reduction in emissions compared with 1990. this requires multi-faceted policies, a dimension which is widely covered in this report.
it covers a range of themes that are dear to me: sustainable development, the energy transition and, although the term is not directly used, the circular economy.
the bio-economy is a sector of the future, particularly important in our context of energy dependence and mass unemployment.
i therefore prefer to use the term 'circular economy' to describe the direction our environmental policies should take in the years ahead.
sustainable growth is one of the major challenges for our future.
the european union faces several challenges: the increase in population, the increase in food and energy requirements, and the scarcity of resources.
the latter is based on research and development, cooperation between the public service and the private sector, agriculture, fisheries, the environment, etc.
the bioeconomy strategy and action plan aim to pave the way towards a more innovative, resource-efficient and competitive society, reconciling food security with the sustainable use of renewable resources for industrial purposes.
i am convinced that the recovery of growth and reindustrialisation in europe require reconciliation of the economy with the social and environmental aspects.
europe has a driving role to play in this area, and i welcome the ambition of this text, which is that we must create new models of production, consumption and development for the greatest benefit of our economies, our environment and our quality of life.
i voted in favour of the bartolozzi report for a bio-economy in europe because we are facing many challenges at the moment: population growth, increasing demand for food and energy, resource scarcity, etc.
to do this, we need to be more efficient in the use of our resources and conserve our biodiversity, which we so need.
we must encourage research and development in our enterprises (especially our smes) which, through their innovations, can help us create a new, more sustainable economy.
european industry is not dead and should not be neglected: it has immense potential for adaptability in order to become more sustainable, more innovative, more competitive.
growth and sustainability are not mutually exclusive concepts; rather, they can be combined and reinforced.
the report aimed to present a bio-economy strategy for europe for sustainable growth.
europe will have to face many social challenges in the next 40 years (scarcity of resources, growth of the world population, demand for food and energy, etc.).
the effects are ambivalent, since the bioeconomy guarantees sustainable development by promoting, for example, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, but can also be the solution of tomorrow in terms of economic growth and higher employment rates, including the spread of industrial innovation.
faced with the growing challenges of dwindling natural resources, the growing world population and its needs, and global warming, the eu must anticipate these major challenges by turning to long-term development and growth, a bio-economy.
furthermore, it is necessary to continue the harmonisation of the union's agricultural, industrial and environmental policies in order to carry out coherent and effective action across the continent.
the bioeconomy strategy and action plan aim to pave the way towards a more innovative, resource-efficient and competitive society that reconciles food security with the sustainable use of renewable resources for industrial purposes, while ensuring environmental protection.
while the objectives set by the commission and this report are laudable (better use of resources, avoidance of waste in all areas, food security, reduction of greenhouse gases, protection of the environment and ecosystems, etc.
it is not enough to put the prefix bio- in front of words to make an ecological policy.
it is time to move towards eco-socialism and to put in place ecological planning and solidarity protectionism.
the commission's 'sustainable growth' strategy encourages the development of the 'bio-economy' and thus of biotechnology, which promotes understanding of the mechanisms at the genetic and molecular levels.
there are many applications in the agricultural, energy, chemical and health industries.
biotechnologies have an important role to play in addressing europe's demographic, food and energy challenges, but they are not the panacea and need to be closely monitored.
we know the debates about gmos and health and beyond, the risks to biodiversity, farmers and their dependence on seeds.
the aim is therefore to extend the current coordination mechanism applicable to communicable diseases to all threats to health of biological, chemical or environmental origin.
among these i can mention the extension of the risk assessment and coordination measures currently applicable to communicable diseases to all threats to health of chemical, biological or environmental origin.
as rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i have been working, and we have been working, for almost two years on this exciting subject.
we then, after the almost unanimous vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, began six months of trilogue negotiations and reached an agreement on 6 may.
i would like to conclude by highlighting three points which have been implemented thanks to the work of the fictitious rapporteurs, but also - and i would like to thank them for this - thanks to the irish presidency, which has been very proactive on this matter, and to the european commission's dg sanco, which has really played this role of passing on ideas, as we in the environment committee wanted from the start.
and you are right, madam president, europe's energy policy is just one example.
this is a very sensitive issue, not least because we still have energy islands in europe, and if our companies pay three to five times as much in energy bills as in the united states, it is partly because of these islands.
today we are faced with a similar challenge, that of energy, and the european energy grid must be improved.
but this will not be possible without a european dimension, because of the investments to be made: €200 billion for gas, electricity and renewable energy by 2020 €200 billion which could generate 400 000 jobs, or 0.42% additional growth.
madam president, we hope that your presidency will be a decisive step in the creation of a genuine european energy community.
because without a stable supply of energy at controlled costs, our companies, our citizens, will always be penalised.
the usual european rhetoric is also present: sustainable development, global warming, a people's europe, further enlargement with turkey, easier entry visas for countries south of the mediterranean - of which, it must be said, not many are coming to lithuania at the moment, but let's wait a bit, they will come - and then free trade agreements with virtually the whole world.
it's an important partner for energy, for iter.
to achieve a policy of sustainable development, a social pact for europe, an ambitious research policy.
this will jeopardise future priorities such as the relocation and ecological transformation of production, the ecological bifurcation of transport and energy and investment in the maritime economy as the new frontier of human progress.
it develops harmonised requirements with the aim of eliminating technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties and of establishing high levels of safety and environmental protection.
the text also helps to limit the physical risks and environmental impact of each vehicle.
while facilitating trade in these machines with the rest of the world through common technical standards, parliament also aims to ensure a high level of safety on europe's roads and environmental protection.
it shall draw up harmonised requirements with the aim of eliminating technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties and of achieving high levels of safety and environmental protection.
the text also helps to limit the physical risks and environmental impact of each vehicle.
while facilitating trade in these machines with the rest of the world through common technical standards, parliament also aims to ensure a high level of safety on europe's roads and environmental protection.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i voted in favour of this reform of the european union's co2 emissions trading system (ets).
indeed, as the price of a tonne of carbon collapses month after month, i felt it was urgent that this policy mechanism should return to its role as a catalyst to reduce co2 emissions and accelerate the development of green technologies.
the aim is indeed to give fresh impetus to our system of trading greenhouse gas emission allowances.
the eu must be at the forefront of the fight against climate change and empower itself to steer development towards a low-carbon economy.
as i did in april, i voted against the backloading proposal because i think that such a measure cannot be justified in the eyes of europeans: at a time when we are going through a difficult economic period, is it really the time to penalise the competitiveness of european companies and citizens by voting for a measure that will raise energy prices?
i am afraid that this text will leave us far behind our international competitors, at the expense of our jobs and our ambitions for economic recovery, without any real benefit to the environment.
the ets was introduced in 2005 with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
the market is currently experiencing serious difficulties, as the price of a tonne of carbon is less than 5 euros.
it therefore seemed essential to react and vote in favour of this text which will help to save this system, which is the very heart of european policy to combat climate change.
the union's desired carbon market is collapsing because it is untenable in an open and unprotected space like europe.
i am very concerned about the outcome of the vote on the emissions trading system (ets) in plenary today.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products.
by setting a 'floor' price for carbon, the european commission is intervening in a market system.
the ets is a symbol of the eu's climate policy, and is particularly effective in terms of sustainable development.
the system must not be abandoned at the risk of renationalising climate policy, but must be reformed structurally so that it remains the cornerstone of climate policy.
i voted in favour of this because it provides for a freeze on the auctioning of certain co2 licences in order to encourage companies to invest in low-carbon innovation.
on wednesday i voted against the report on the timetable for greenhouse gas emission auctions.
since 2005, the ets, set up under the common environmental policy, has encouraged eu companies to switch to low-polluting technologies, thanks to a greenhouse gas emission ceiling and a market for buying and selling excess emissions.
however, the market is in surplus and the continuing fall in the price of emission credits is not driving economic actors to reduce their carbon footprint.
i am afraid that this measure will lead to higher energy prices and will put a little more pressure on european companies and individuals.
however, the debate is being revived because the commission has to look at a re-design of the european carbon market, which i hope will further promote competitiveness and growth.
i voted against the new proposals for a freeze on greenhouse gas emission allowances.
the european commission's intervention would increase the cost of energy for european businesses, which are already struggling with the slowdown in european growth.
parliament accepts the idea that the commission could change the timetable for auctioning co2 emission allowances to deal with the collapse in prices and the carbon market's failure.
this decision would be a short-term illusion to maintain the carbon market under artificial respiration.
the energy transition and the fight against greenhouse gas emissions cannot be achieved through market mechanisms.
we need strict regulations and european environmental planning.
the current european system for combating greenhouse gas emissions, based on a european carbon market where 'polluting rights' are sold, is far from effective.
this is not the way to reduce european environmental policy.
what we need is not a marginal measure but a fundamental reform of this system and ambitious policies to promote the transition to a low-carbon economy.
the eu's emissions trading system was faced with serious imbalances.
as an indirect consequence, the supply of carbon allowances far outstrips demand, and the price of carbon has fallen to a level that is no longer a deterrent.
two thirds of the revenue will have to be reallocated to eco-innovation and renewable energy, i.e.
the ets is returning to its primary function as a stimulus for the development of low-carbon technologies.
the european commission is proposing to postpone the auctioning of 900 million co2 emission allowances to phase iii of the european trading system in order to artificially inflate the price of carbon emissions.
because this freeze will only allow a small increase in the price of carbon, so it would only be a step towards a real decision on these quotas.
the commission must take real decisions if it is to save the carbon market without depriving companies of economic growth!
we all want to avoid an ecological catastrophe, and our factories have already invested heavily in energy-saving and less polluting technologies.
the european union has set up a quota trading system to reduce co2 emissions from european industries, which are responsible for global warming.
− even if the carbon price is lower than originally envisaged, the european commission should respect the principle of regulatory continuity during this trading period and take account of current economic conditions.
the revised proposal for amendments to the directive by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety still allows the european commission to adjust the timetable for auctioning allowances.
the report also suggests that the possibility of revising the guidelines on the directive and the carbon leakage criteria should be considered.
i therefore vote against this report because the revised proposal still leaves uncertainties about the future of the eu emissions trading system (ets) and threatens the future of local manufacturing companies.
the commission's intention, by delaying the trading of allowances, to artificially price co2 allowances on the market is an ill-conceived proposal to reduce harmful emissions into the air.
this report deals with the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading system (ges) and more particularly with the auction calendar, also known as the 'carbon market', and the resale of emission allowances on the financial markets.
it does not call into question this system, which could at least be better structured to force industrialists to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, but which has also proved ineffective in reducing emissions, as many civil society organisations have explained and contrary to what is maintained in this report.
it merely leaves the commission the opportunity to make proposals by the end of 2013 to improve the system after 2020. i therefore voted against this text because i cannot support this ubex approach, which ignores the challenges of combating climate change.
the commission proposes to artificially increase the polluting allowances purchased by our industries on the carbon market, in order to accelerate their transition to cleaner energy and reduce co2 emissions.
i opposed it because, although on paper it seems to be a good measure, in practice it does not take account of the current economic situation and leads to the suffocation of our companies by increasing their energy bills.
the fall in the price of a tonne of carbon is not due to an imbalance in this market but simply reflects the economic recession into which most eu economies are falling.
as our companies produce less, they emit and consume significantly less carbon, and the price of carbon automatically falls.
there is no doubt that when growth picks up again, the price of carbon will follow.
the only way to raise the price of the carbon quota is to re-industrialize europe and make our companies more competitive!
and there could be no worse signal than the abrupt reduction in available carbon allowances.
in addition, the eu's scope for action will be extended (now possible for an infectious threat, this scope may include chemical and environmental health threats).
as rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i have been working, and we have been working, on this for almost two years.
the current situation in hungary is very worrying: the xenophobic and homophobic climate there is only a pale reflection of the undemocratic deviations of the government and its disregard for the fundamental values enshrined in the treaties and rooted in the european tradition.
but also to propose immediately a new regulation on the eusf, which would allow the countries concerned to pre-finance their reconstruction programmes, and above all to make it a more efficient and flexible instrument, capable of responding to the new challenges linked to climate change.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the manufacture of certain products.
finally, we should not neglect the preventive aspects and the implementation of sustainable land-use planning policies, since the frequency, severity and impact of natural disasters of this type have increased rapidly in recent years in europe, especially as some areas have lost part of their capacity to absorb rainfall.
i believe that banks need to be more closely linked to the real economy and contribute to its stable and sustainable development.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against fraud.
so we are neither naive nor schematic, but this climate of confidence is beginning to develop, and this is reinforced by the lack of response from the american authorities, apart from the proposal to set up this group that you mentioned, madam president.
in response to its external financing needs following the 2008 crisis, special aid was made available in 2009 and 2010. in view of the fragile economic environment, an additional aid of an amount equivalent to the previous one was proposed.
it is in an environment of stability and economic development that the european continent as a whole will remain a central player on the international scene.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a disaster.
you are shouting that this is a waste, but a more objective reflection would show how limited this measure is, certainly of rather little consequence for the interests of european agriculture and, moreover, compatible with norway's commitments to the wto.
we have identified several priorities to put europe back at the centre of the world stage, namely the building of a banking union, the fight against tax fraud, better use of energy resources, cohesion policies and the refocusing of employment on social policies.
it is also urgent to deepen our banking union and to fight together against tax havens in order to ensure stability and sustainable growth for our economy.
we support the country’s development in energy and water sectors, and we are active in the area of governance.
the eu is ready to support this process and to work together with everyone in djibouti to help to achieve democracy and equitable sustainable growth.
nigeria is in a dramatic situation where the control of international oil companies and the accompanying corruption are undermining public policy and depriving the people of the benefits that can be derived from the exploitation of national wealth, not to mention the environmental damage.
in the context of the 3x20 programme, we voted in 2008 for the obligation for member states to have 10% of their transport produced from renewable energy sources by 2020. the european parliament had already expressed the wish that the indirect effects of land use change (iluc/casi) could be taken into account, since this is a provision designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
it was based on the ifpri study, and the proposal before us today amends the fuel directive and the renewable energy directive.
firstly, to put an end to a policy which is not sustainable in the long term: that of having to choose, with regard to a food plant, whether to consume it or to make it into a fuel.
thirdly, to ensure that advanced agrofuels - those that can be made from algae, from power-to-gas, from carbon capture - can be widely encouraged in the years ahead.
and finally, to make sure that our policy actually has an impact, that the reductions in greenhouse gas emissions are the ones we expect.
the report adopted by the committee on the environment was already a compromise report with all the groups, since all the groups had agreed on the basis of a reduction to 5.5 of first generation agrofuels and the inclusion of iluc/casi in the fuel quality directive from 2020 onwards.
the report by the committee on the environment went a little further and, in the interests of compromise, i have therefore tried to find a solution for this vote in plenary that would have the support of the majority in parliament.
we are proposing 6% for first generation biofuels, including energy crops.
we propose to apply iluc/casi only in the fuel quality directive and not in the sustainability criteria from 2020, with a clause for a methodology revision in 2016 or 2017. i would point out, however, that the ifpri report, which has been the subject of much criticism, much discussion and conflicting reports of studies - often, moreover, from those who have an interest in continuing to develop first generation agrofuels - has nevertheless been corroborated by a study published in july by the commission which shows that the actual data do indeed confirm the results that have been found.
for all these reasons, i support a text that limits first generation biofuels and that makes a strict distinction between good and bad biofuels, a text that allows the incorporation of the iluc/casi factor into the renewable energy directive.
this palm oil cultivation has led to massive deforestation and the grabbing of indigenous lands for food crops, all in a climate of violence that is certain to be driven by local law enforcement.
i must also say on behalf of mr oettinger and myself that, as we have been listening to this debate – an interesting debate with very different views presented – we have remained convinced that the commission’s proposal presents the most balanced compromise between environmental and economic interests.
this is because it sends a clear signal to industry on the need to move to advanced biofuels that deliver substantial greenhouse-gas savings while respecting existing investments.
in this context, we firmly believe in the need to maintain the limit that conventional biofuels make towards the renewable energy directive targets at current consumption levels.
more importantly, a sub-target alone does not mitigate the negative environmental impact of conventional biofuels, which is the very reason why, in the existing directive, the commission was requested to come forward with this proposal.
this is why the commission maintains the inclusion of iluc factors in member states’ reports under the renewable energy and fuel quality directives.
the 20% target for the overall renewable energy share, the 10% transport target and the 6% fuel quality directive target are pillars of our energy and climate package.
in this context, the commission has, for example, just as strong reservations about the need to increase multipliers for the use of renewable electricity by trains.
there is a pressing need to agree on an effective approach to tackle iluc in order to mitigate the environmental impact as well as to provide clear signals to investors.
a bad blow, finally, for our climate change policy since the effects on climate change are not what we expected.
the lepage report highlights an important point: iluc factors must be included in the sustainability criteria.
the potential problems associated with the large-scale exploitation of biofuels are numerous: monoculture, soil degradation, water pollution, deforestation.
furthermore, according to a study published in the scientific journal critical reviews in plant science, the production of ethanol requires the consumption of six units of energy to produce one unit of ethanol.
biofuels are not the miracle answer to the coming energy crisis.
biofuels are therefore a political mistake and a major environmental hazard.
transport is one of the sectors where significant progress has been made in reducing co2 emissions and improving safety.
with this text, we have put research and innovation at the heart of sustainable transport objectives in europe.
i have approved this text because it preserves the balance between free movement in the eu and environmental protection objectives.
i voted in favour of the cramer report because the european union needs to reduce its dependence on oil and the level of greenhouse gas emissions to meet the 2020 targets.
by emphasising the importance of developing alternative fuels while maintaining a balance between the respective efforts of the member states in the field of environmental protection and free movement within the union, this report aims to promote, through research and innovation, the emergence of a competitive european transport system.
this text sets strong ambitions to get us on the path to sustainable and innovative transport.
europe can and must be at the forefront of sustainable transport technologies.
i voted in favour of this text because it is particularly important to make the european transport technology strategy as effective as possible, so as to achieve economic, environmental and societal gains and to stimulate sustainable growth and job creation.
i voted in favour of this text, which makes sustainable mobility a key priority of the european union's transport policy.
the transport sector is a major contributor to pollution and there is an urgent need to move towards a more environmentally friendly mobility.
the european union has set itself ambitious targets for reducing co2 emissions in the coming decades and these should be respected.
the european parliament wanted to express its views on recommendations from the european commission to support research and innovation to create a sustainable transport system in europe.
the text has three objectives: to reduce dependence on petroleum products in the transport sector, thereby reducing greenhouse gas emissions and, thanks to technical developments, reducing the number of road deaths.
the report proposes, in particular, to create an innovation monitoring system to better coordinate actors, to improve convergence with other areas (telecommunications, energy, etc.)
strengthening sustainable mobility is an imperative for the continuation of efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and combat climate change.
it is an environmental imperative which will also improve the quality of life for every european citizen.
as former president of the european parliament jerzy buzek did an excellent job with this report which highlights all the shortcomings of the current european energy policy (rising prices, difficulty in reducing co2 emissions, fears about energy independence, maintenance of coal-fired power stations, etc.
the internal energy market must now be fully realised as soon as possible.
secondly, a genuine european energy community should be created, in particular to ensure better european energy diplomacy at the global level.
i voted in favour of the establishment of a genuine internal energy market to stem the rise in energy prices we are experiencing in europe.
moreover, the problem is not just one of consumers, these price increases are also weakening the competitiveness and attractiveness of our industries in the energy market.
our objective is to complete the internal energy market by 2014. to achieve this, urgent action is needed to remove the physical barriers that still exist between our countries, to build the necessary networks and to complete the implementation of existing regulations, in particular the third energy package.
i am pleased that this text incorporates the amendments i tabled to ensure greater transparency in the energy bills of european citizens: the strategic decisions we take in favour of one or another form of energy have concrete consequences in the pocketbook of europeans, and it is therefore legitimate for them to be kept informed.
the eu member states have committed themselves to completing the internal energy market by 2014. such a market will benefit both consumers and businesses, who will both benefit from lower prices, thus promoting the competitiveness of businesses and their job creation.
reducing the eu's energy dependence must be the first priority of a common energy policy.
to do this, the eu must exploit the full potential of all renewable energy sources, while improving its energy efficiency in both the public transport sector and the building sector, where the potential for savings is greatest.
europe must also guarantee energy security for each of its members and prevent the interruption of gas supplies to some eu countries that are heavily dependent on russia.
a common gas market for the whole of europe, based on adequate infrastructure, storage capacity and strategic reserve requirements, together with solidarity between member states, is the only possible basis for a secure energy supply.
i voted in favour of this text because i believe that all energy priorities have been properly considered, taking into account the rise in energy prices and costs and their effects on the consumer as well as on industry.
i have been particularly attentive to the need to invest in modernising and developing energy infrastructure to promote our competitiveness in the energy market.
i welcome the vote on tuesday, 10 september, on the buzek report, which lays the foundations for the proper functioning of the internal energy market in europe.
the parliament is reacting to the increase in energy prices in europe.
i believe that it is high time to protect the purchasing power of european consumers by establishing the internal energy market with a view to guaranteeing fair, transparent and competitive energy prices.
i also asked the european commission directly in a written question about the reasons for this price increase and the measures envisaged to stabilise and reduce energy prices in europe.
i look forward to the commission's analysis of the structure of energy prices and costs in all member states and the factors determining them by the end of 2013. the internal energy market must be a key element of global competitiveness, economic growth and, above all, job creation by 2020 in europe.
the european union has committed itself to completing the internal energy market by 2014, which will allow for better coordination of member states' energy policies and the development of new supply strategies with other member states.
i voted in favour of this report because we need to find alternatives to oil and invest in our energy independence, in line with the principles of sustainable development, while promoting innovation.
energy prices will also have to be more transparent.
the report also encourages investment to modernise and develop energy infrastructure.
finally, it called on the european commission to support research into innovative energy technologies, in particular those with less negative effects on the environment.
i voted in favour of the report which calls for greater transparency in energy prices and for the modernisation of energy systems, i.e.
making them more energy efficient.
in order to achieve the objective of an internal energy market by 2014, member states need to move towards better coordination of energy policies and enhanced cooperation between member states.
i voted in favour of this report, which proposes a wide range of concrete solutions to complete the internal energy market.
it seems to me that in this proposal we have succeeded in reconciling in a coherent way the main objectives of the internal energy market: security of supply, the promotion of healthy competition in the european energy market for the benefit of consumers, and the reduction of energy dependence on third countries.
we have no shortage of ideas, such as the creation of a european energy community, increased european funds for investment in renewable energy, and of course in infrastructure.
the european energy network must be smart and forward-looking: european consumers will need more power and more knowledge to better control their energy bills.
such a european energy policy would have a positive impact on consumers and on european growth, which is currently held back by europe's dependence on oil and gas imports.
as the price of energy falls in the us, particularly due to the exploration of shale gas, i am concerned about the rising energy bill for households and businesses in europe.
i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, which proposes concrete ways of combating this perverse phenomenon of rising energy prices, which is a problem of both declining purchasing power and declining competitiveness.
to bring down energy prices, competition in the energy sector should also be reinvigorated, so that consumers can choose between several quality suppliers.
as long as an energy company has control of the infrastructure, it can block or alter access to its market and prevent the development of competition, to the detriment of the interests of companies, citizens and the european internal market!
- the measures of the third energy package were not implemented quickly enough, and the rapporteur, former president of the european parliament (epp), supports the european commission's communication on further liberalisation of the energy market.
not even a reference to energy for all.
and the references to the transatlantic market suggest the worst: "the shale gas revolution in the united states has reduced co2 emissions, while providing a substantial competitive advantage to american industry", the report enthusiastically states, forgetting the damage these gases cause on american soil.
energy efficiency is a central element of the energy transition in which the eu wishes to engage.
in a low-carbon economy, sobriety and energy efficiency play a leading role.
while in the previous programming period the eur 5,5 billion allocated to energy efficiency was not fully used, the period 2014-2020 should allow the structural funds to fully contribute to the development of energy efficiency in transport, buildings and in particular housing, by removing obstacles, in particular regulatory ones, and by increasing the visibility of programmes and the opportunities for beneficiaries.
making homes more efficient means, among other things, combating the energy poverty that affects millions of our fellow europeans.
i voted in favour of this report which encourages the european union to continue its efforts to improve energy efficiency in the context of cohesion policy.
the eu has adopted ambitious targets under horizon 2020, including a 20% reduction in overall energy consumption.
in order to achieve these objectives, investment in energy efficiency measures is needed to reduce costs, create jobs and growth and encourage the transition to a low-carbon economy.
i voted in favour of this report which encourages the member states of the european union to continue their efforts to improve the energy efficiency of the union.
the union's commitment to the 20% energy saving target by 2020 is to ensure that local and regional authorities have easier access to european structural and investment funds dedicated to energy efficiency.
by adopting this report, states can contribute to the optimisation and rationalisation of national and regional programmes, in particular by designing and constructing buildings that are less energy-intensive.
the report therefore clearly advocates a reduction in the energy costs borne by european citizens.
europe has set itself a clear target for 2020: to achieve a 20% reduction in its overall energy consumption, partly through energy efficiency.
energy efficiency is a key tool for our competitiveness, as it allows businesses to reduce their energy consumption without affecting their competitiveness or employment.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to ensure that european cohesion policy objectives are compatible with energy efficiency objectives and to strengthen the impact of energy efficiency measures for the coming programming period, without setting binding targets for the european union.
the committee on regional development, of which i am a member, wanted to give an opinion on energy efficiency measures, which account for a large proportion of funding under cohesion policy.
part of the eu's cohesion policy funds, such as the european regional development fund (erdf) and the european social fund (esf), is devoted to improving energy efficiency, particularly in buildings.
the report also contains recommendations to make european, national and regional cohesion policy objectives compatible with energy efficiency objectives.
i voted in favour of this text because greater energy efficiency is synonymous with savings and respect for the environment, but also a source of innovation and jobs.
i voted in favour of the report which assesses the current results of cohesion policy measures targeting energy efficiency and proposes recommendations to increase their impact in the new programming period.
i voted in favour of this report and i would like to recall one simple fact: energy efficiency is one of the main challenges for sustainable growth in europe.
one third of the eu's co2 emissions come from the energy consumption of buildings.
before we replace fossil fuels, our first priority is to reduce our energy consumption.
low-energy buildings, or renewable energy sources such as solar, can save citizens a lot of money on their energy bills and create new jobs.
the european union has adopted numerous regulations to achieve the 20% energy efficiency target by 2020. the budgetary stimulus is now lacking.
the €325 billion of the next cohesion policy must be mobilised to invest in energy efficiency.
the union 2020 targets for reducing annual primary energy consumption must be met.
improving energy efficiency can both combat global warming and contribute to growth by creating new jobs.
as a member of the socialist and democratic group, i support this report which stresses that energy efficiency measures under cohesion policy help to achieve the eu2020 objectives.
the report also emphasises the role of local and regional actors in energy supply and use in order to achieve the objectives set.
the new strategy supports the need to move towards sustainable management of common resources by promoting good practices and initiatives.
the report proposes the means of combating marine pollution, coastal erosion and uncontrolled urbanisation, which are harmful to the environment, by coordinating fishing and aquaculture activities in the adriatic and ionian basin.
i voted in favour of this text because closer cooperation with neighbouring countries is needed to establish a common management of fisheries activities and ensure the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
i voted in favour of the report for a strategy for fisheries in the adriatic and ionian sea, which calls on the european commission to adopt an action plan for the joint management of fisheries activities and the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in this region.
in this report, parliament calls on the european commission to launch a proposal for a macro-regional strategy with a priority for fisheries and aquaculture, respecting the environment and the commitments made in the common fisheries policy (cfp).
who is making them the first victims of the economic, social and ecological crisis?
this is the ecological transition!
autonomy, decent incomes, social, economic, ecological and political utility must be our goals to build and achieve for young people, with young people and their representatives.
this is the case, of course, with fishing, but also with the drying up of wetlands, drainage, poaching, migratory barriers, pollution, pumping, turbining and many other factors.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it is therefore urgent that the european commission revise the regulation on the recovery of eel stocks, taking into account updated data and seeking to address eel mortality in a holistic manner, while maintaining a safe environment for the profession, through stable management plans.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to combat fraud, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
modernisation, simplification, pragmatism and flexibility for the states to adapt are the keywords of this reform of customs legislation which we have tried to bring to the attention of businesses by creating an environment which is more favourable to them.
among the major developments brought about by the text - and i will mention only the most striking ones - are the introduction of paperless customs environment, improvements in the practical advantages linked to the status of authorised economic operators, which allows companies to benefit from significant simplifications and thus to smooth trade on the basis of a relationship of trust between economic operators and customs services.
tomorrow we will also give the european customs union the tools to cooperate as well as possible with its counterparts outside europe in an increasingly globalised customs environment, in particular through the establishment of mutual recognition mechanisms.
in bilateral trade negotiations, take into account the reciprocity of social, health and environmental standards.
so it is regrettable that the response has sometimes been weak, that decisions have not always been taken in time or that the lack of coordination between national policies has wasted a lot of energy, but the results are there and the reforms in the field of supervision, the consolidation of public finances and convergence are beginning to bear fruit.
our cultural and linguistic heritage is a priceless treasure, and as many languages are dying out around the world, including in europe, it is our responsibility to reverse the trend in a sustainable way.
i voted in favour of this report because it aims to align the procedure for appointing the executive director of the european environment agency with the procedures used for appointing the executive directors of other eu agencies (e.g.
this includes giving the european parliament, before appointment, the formal right to hear the candidate selected for the post by the management board of the european environment agency.
the role of the european environment agency is to help build a sustainable future for europe.
i voted in favour of the report calling on the european commission to submit a proposal to update the regulation of the european environment agency, so that it provides for a hearing by parliament of the candidate for the post of executive director before his appointment by the administrative board.
the groote report aims to increase the powers of the european parliament in the procedure for appointing the executive director of the european environment agency (eea).
it is proposed that the executive director of the eea be chosen by the agency's management board from a list of candidates proposed by the commission and be heard by parliament and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety after presenting a roadmap to the committee setting out its strategy for the duration of his term of office.
through the cap of 6% for conventional biofuels (produced from agricultural materials) and the target of 2.5% for advanced biofuels by 2020 as well as other measures in this text, we ensure that biofuels contribute to the fight against climate change, support the income of our farmers, without jeopardising planned investments and without undermining the global food market.
without denying the investments made in europe and the importance of the biodiesel and bioethanol sectors, we must now change our biofuels policy to make it a real tool for contributing to the objectives of combating climate change.
i was in favour of a threshold of 6.5% for the use of biofuels by 2020 proposed by the committee on industry, research and energy.
the lepage report states that the large amount of greenhouse gases emitted by biofuels is due to a phenomenon called indirect land use change (casi).
the proposed text, which is essentially technical, proposed to challenge the investment and environmental policy of biofuels in europe.
the proposal i supported envisaged the emergence of second generation biofuels, which would help to meet the criticisms of food and energy security in europe.
it was essential to vote for a cap on first generation agrofuels (the rate chosen is higher than hoped, 6% of the final energy consumed in transport), produced from food crops.
it was also essential to include casi (iluc) factors in greenhouse gas accounting, reflecting the climate impact of agrofuels due to the shift in food production from different raw materials.
this was the minimum necessary to take concrete action to address the negative consequences (climate change, food insecurity and the social consequences of the shift of food production) of the current eu biofuels policy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the directive proposes to take account of greenhouse gas emissions from land use change for biofuel production.
to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past, i believe we must limit first generation biofuels to 5.5% and promote advanced biofuels, including those derived from waste and algae.
i also support the inclusion of the iluc ("land use change") factor in the sustainability criteria for fuels because this will allow us to have a real picture of the carbon footprint of a biofuel in the future so that we can better assess as far in advance as possible whether or not to continue production.
these biofuels, which are produced from agricultural residues or algae, for example, have a lower impact on the environment because they do not lead to the destruction of natural areas or the conversion of agricultural land.
increasing biofuel production poses two problems: agricultural land originally used for food crops is converted into land for biofuel production, and natural areas are converted into agricultural land, leading to a reduction in biodiversity and an increase in greenhouse gas emissions.
the vote will also help the eu meet the target of using 10% renewable energy in transport by 2020.
in writing.
in 2008, the eu set itself an ambitious target: by 2020, 10% of transport fuel should be produced from renewable energy sources.
deforestation would generate more greenhouse gases than fossil fuels.
i voted against the iluc provisions because the reliability of the factors for taking account of greenhouse gas emissions from biofuels in the use of agricultural land has not been established.
however, the text does not clearly state the objective of drastically reducing carbon-based energy and advocates some very questionable solutions such as co2 storage technologies.
this report proposes targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector, and aims to develop renewable energy increasingly effective measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including by limiting first generation biofuels, which indirectly affect our environment and compete with agricultural production for food.
it is by setting strict requirements that practices will change and that our fuel consumption will have less impact on our environment.
this is an imperative to strengthen our policies to combat climate change, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in 2008, the eu set itself an ambitious target: by 2020, 10% of transport fuel should be produced from renewable energy sources.
deforestation would generate more greenhouse gases than fossil fuels.
however, the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment go too far.
after the initial euphoria about biofuels as the future of clean energy, the indirect problems of large-scale production are beginning to emerge.
the cultivation of biofuels poses two main problems: intensive land use, and the substitution of food crops for energy crops.
although biofuels can be a boon in the fight against greenhouse gas emissions, their expansion must be limited to preserve food crops.
thus these constraints, the casi (criterion to limit the footprint on the soil) and the ghg (greenhouse gas emissions), must be cumulated to find a balance.
nevertheless, this directive is a step in the right direction and represents a step forward in terms of regulating energy production and a balanced distribution of land between energy and food needs.
biofuels have long been considered the most effective tool to achieve the eu's greenhouse gas emission reduction targets.
studies on agrofuels show that complementary factors need to be taken into account to improve their energy efficiency and energy savings in the fight against climate change.
the increasing use of agricultural land for the production of agrofuels is causing ghg emissions, known as the casi (indirect land use change) phenomenon.
this half-baked result is the result of strong lobbying, but also of the timid proposal of the european commission, which, although acknowledging the casi phenomenon, only proposed to report the emissions of agrofuels related to casi!
the vote on the amendments was significant, with the amendments from the industry and environment committees being returned back to back, almost all rejected by the liberal vote.
i regret that many of my colleagues have fallen into the trap of the environmental lobbyists and have limited this debate to the choice between driving or eating!
this strategic sector needs long-term visibility, both to secure investments already made in first generation biofuels and to encourage investment in the innovation niches of second generation biofuels from biomass and waste and third generation biofuels from algae.
i have high hopes for the second reading and will continue to advocate a policy of encouraging biofuels that is both sustainable and cost-effective.
initially, biofuel policies were intended to reduce the eu's energy footprint and help combat global warming, but they have clearly had a negative indirect effect on the environment.
the european legislation should therefore be adapted accordingly to give priority to so-called 'second generation' agrofuels, based on more innovative and environmentally friendly techniques such as waste reprocessing.
the approach taken by the european parliament, which sets a target of 6% of final energy consumed in transport by 2020, should allow a transition from one generation to the next while giving industry, which had invested in first-generation biofuels, time to adapt.
i voted against these new restrictions, since the member states are still in the process of setting the 2007 targets and a significant effort is already required of them to achieve good ecological status of the waters.
the commission will have to come forward with a proposal as soon as possible, and the states will have to be more vigilant, as it is a matter of preserving our biodiversity and our resources.
the eel stock is facing not only climate problems such as pollution or changing ocean currents, but also overexploitation and the inability to control it due to mismatched catch and export data.
the efforts of french fishermen to repopulate water catchments are being thwarted by a gradual and steady deterioration of the environment.
i am voting against this text which is only intended to facilitate free trade, whereas the ecological and social emergency is more about the establishment of a european protectionism based on solidarity.
i voted in favour of this text because i support the fact that before authorising the implementation of a public or private project likely to have an impact on the environment, the competent authorities of the member states have a legal obligation to collect the information necessary to carry out an environmental impact assessment.
however, i would also like to stress the impact that the environmental impact assessment process can have on the protection of historical heritage or on tourism, and to recognise the specific nature of crossborder projects, which are essential for the union's transport policy as opposed to projects with crossborder effects.
the text seeks to strengthen the obligations to assess the environmental impact of certain projects.
it was time, as this impact assessment directive had not been revised since 1985, when consideration of environmental issues had increased considerably.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment.
this liberal and accounting approach to taking account of the ecological challenge will not make it possible to radically reorient production and equipment projects in an ecological direction.
i am voting for this text so as not to prevent any small steps towards transparency, even though this report is far removed from the ecological planning that is required today in the face of the widespread destruction of the human ecosystem.
it has become imperative to put an end to the current waste by supporting young people in their entry into the labour market and by helping them to find a job again.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the report will thus help malaysia in its fight against terrorism, corruption and human trafficking, and will also enable the union to forge links of investment and beneficial partnerships, particularly in the fields of trade, energy and new technologies.
parliament's motion for a resolution aims to promote a partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and malaysia by emphasising the importance of political dialogue, human rights and fundamental freedoms, economic, scientific and cultural cooperation on the environment.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after 20 years of international negotiations, in 2010 the european union and the international community took a new step towards the preservation of biodiversity by adopting a new dynamic strategy and the nagoya protocol on access to and fair sharing of genetic resources.
the report we are voting on tomorrow aims to transpose the nagoya protocol into european law and to enable the european union to ratify it before the next un conference at the end of 2014. this draft regulation is part of a dynamic of action and respect for our international commitments in the field of biodiversity.
biodiversity is our life insurance, our natural capital.
but the crisis, the loss of biodiversity, continues to worsen at an accelerating rate.
we are facing a crisis of living conditions unprecedented in human history, the consequences of which for our societies have and will have a social, economic and environmental cost that, every day, makes the addition more and more salty.
the nagoya protocol contributes to the establishment of a system that allows sustainable development for all, in the north and in the south of the planet.
europe has established itself as a major player in international negotiations on biodiversity.
the role and place of europe on the international environment scene depend on tomorrow's vote.
the future of our european economic model, a more equitable, more sustainable model which contributes to the preservation of biodiversity, also depends on tomorrow's vote.
there are many challenges, starting with the preservation of biodiversity.
however, we must not forget that many sectors of the economy and research, many populations that are directly dependent on biodiversity, are affected.
we can lose all the credibility that we have spent years building, through our progressive positions and alliances, not just in the biodiversity negotiations but also, by ricochet, in other international meetings.
can we imagine for a moment that the european union is absent from the climate negotiations and the kyoto protocol?
the same is true of biodiversity and the nagoya procotol.
this is what we have all been working on together in the committee on the environment.
the report approved by the committee on the environment, which many of my colleagues supported, deserves to be defended.
this is also the case with the creation of an innovative financing mechanism and a european biodiversity fund.
i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to approve tomorrow the report as adopted by the committee on the environment and to allow me to begin the negotiation process with the council with a view to the rapid ratification of the nagoya protocol.
on the one hand, it concerns biodiversity conservation and our respect for other countries’ sovereign rights, as well the rights of indigenous and local communities related to traditional knowledge associated with genetic resources.
on the other hand, it has implications for economic values in which the european union has strong interests, such as offering a favourable environment for innovation, protecting business, and so on.
as you know, the nagoya protocol was a package deal: european users are confronted with problems in securing access to genetic resources in biodiversity-rich, mostly developing countries.
moreover, not having ratified the protocol on time would have a very detrimental effect on our international commitments and on our image with our international partners in the framework of conserving biodiversity, including our credibility and influence at the upcoming conference of the parties of the convention as well as in other environment-related fora.
i am confident that through the trialogues we will be able to find acceptable compromises and arrive at a good outcome: one that is good for the european union, for its researchers, its businesses and also, of course, good for biodiversity.
i still remember very well many of you enthusiastically helping me and also others in nagoya, with the common aim of reaching an agreement on the abs protocol and helping biodiversity, in the first place.
fighting against bio-piracy is about defending the rights of indigenous peoples, protecting the environment, protecting the planet, protecting health, protecting food security.
at this stage i would just like to emphasize one thing: if the report as voted on by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety is stripped of its content tomorrow, the question of the mandate and the possibility of being able to enter into a genuine, balanced and constructive negotiation with the council will inevitably be put to rest.
i wanted to make this clear because going with a warrant and a report emptied of its contents will not allow us to gain credibility or present ourselves at the international conference of parties in korea at the end of 2014. i would therefore draw your attention to the vote to be held tomorrow, on the understanding that the position of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has been discussed at length and has been compromised and balanced in a way which i believe is the right one to defend today.
i would add that when we talk about reuse, we are not talking about retroactivity: there is no question of retroactivity in the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
i am not so unconscious as to bring it up again and start a pointless debate that would waste our time.
they promote social cohesion and the european union's standing and are fully in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the european union must support this cultural and creative 'ecosystem' which is conducive to innovation, competitiveness, social inclusion and education open to the world.
- mr president, in order to ensure that the european union is present at the negotiating table of the forthcoming international conference on biodiversity, i propose that you postpone the vote on the legislative proposal under rule 57 (2) and give me a mandate to open negotiations with the council with a view to a vote on this regulation at first reading.
the nagoya protocol, signed in 2010, aims to preserve biodiversity through regulations on access to and sharing of genetic resources.
i fully share his concerns about the loss of biodiversity and the need for a fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge.
as part of the eu's ratification of the nagoya protocol, the eu decided to have a new instrument for the conservation of biodiversity.
the rapporteur has proposed ambitious objectives, going so far as to propose the retroactivity of commitments in terms of the protection of biodiversity.
- the loss of biodiversity, as far as the statistics we have are concerned, is an important issue for our attention and for our parliamentary political activity.
the economic and social impact of biodiversity loss tells us significant numbers, such as losses of 7% of global gdp by 2050. therefore, preserving and allowing access to genetic resources, and access to them that is as fair as possible and equally guaranteed to the member states, is of paramount importance and is the aim of this report.
investing in knowledge sharing, through the strengthening of infrastructure for the transmission of knowledge and the training of staff, is undoubtedly a good way to reverse the trend that is leading us to the loss of biodiversity.
the eu's ratification of the nagoya protocol on biodiversity is good news in the fight against bio-piracy.
micro generation can be defined as 1) the small-scale production by individuals and smes of energy to produce heat/cold and electricity to meet their own needs, and 2) the various forms of small-scale production, in a group or cooperative way at the community level, to meet local needs; other as this micro-generation is useful for the sustainable supply of energy in the union, i voted in favour of this resolution which sets out the means of developing it.
micro generation is the small-scale production of energy by individuals or smes to produce heat and electricity to meet their own needs.
i voted in favour of this resolution in order to encourage such practices and to achieve the eu's long-term renewable energy objectives.
microgeneration is an interesting tool to enable energy consumers to become real players in the energy market.
by calling for the removal of a number of obstacles, it calls for the completion of the european energy market.
we must, however, remain vigilant so that the attraction of new technologies does not have an undue impact on the energy bills of europeans, and i welcome the emphasis on this in this text.
small-scale energy production for local use.
this would not only promote short circuits but also renewable energies, thanks to the technologies used.
unfortunately, this is what this perfectly hypocritical text is advocating by calling for the acceleration of the implementation of the third package of energy liberalisation directives.
the report thus ignores the ecological and social impasses into which this liberalization is plunging the european union.
and i affirm my support for the development of microgeneration, which will only be effective with ecological planning that will take energy out of the current wild competition.
i voted in favour of this text, which recalls that the european union has a strong interest in maintaining a safe, open and clean maritime environment, guaranteeing the free movement and safety of goods and people within maritime areas.
with a genuine maritime policy integrated into the common security and defence policy, the eu could create a safe, open and clean maritime environment to allow for free trade in the context of a peaceful, fair and sustainable use of our oceans.
however, it does summarise the difficulties faced by workers in a globalised environment.
it aims to cover the main aspects of the living conditions of these minors as soon as they arrive on the territory of the union and to find sustainable solutions for their reception on that territory or for their return to their country of origin.
finally, i have been keen, together with my socialist and democratic colleagues, to include the social question in this report, in particular to ensure the sustainability of jobs, taking into account the specificities of these professions and their need to be fully covered by social protection.
we will abstain and not vote against, in solidarity with the bahraini people, because of the final few paragraphs that mention the... (the speaker cuts off the speaker's microphone)
mr president, the issues of greenhouse gas emissions and the energy transition are crucial for the future of our species.
the market guarantees speculation, the right of the richest to pollute and the relocation of industries to countries with little or no environmental legislation.
this implies the construction of integrated public enterprises for energy, waste and rail freight production and service, enterprises to which specific objectives will be set.
yes, we must act to protect the environment, but we cannot be the only ones who want to save the planet, and this means an environmental taxation at the union's borders, imports of manufactured products to finance investment and research and development by these public enterprises and european industry.
secondly, third countries must agree to apply sustainability models.
only then can growth be restored on a sound and sustainable basis.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, andrea zanoni, for his work on this important project to make up for the shortcomings in the application of environmental assessments by our member states.
facing climate change and the loss of biodiversity, which is accelerating and worsening, facing the artificialisation of natural environments, anticipating and assessing the impacts of our activities and projects before committing them, to make an informed decision whether to build a motorway, an airport or to exploit an oil well, avoiding, reducing or compensating for the harmful effects of projects and activities on the climate and nature: all these elements that should not and should not be an option but an obligation, because the impact study is one of the most effective instruments to protect our environment and our health.
there is no reason why fracking should be excluded from the scope of the environmental impact study and, especially, from the short-term interest that benefits a few and that all will then have to pay in the long term.
so i hope, and i call on all my colleagues, to show ambition and responsibility in voting this report without weakening it and to offer europeans a clear legislative framework which is essential for innovation and the competitiveness of the european union, while ensuring the protection of our environment and our living environment.
this is the case in many areas, including the environment.
environmental impact studies are a very good thing, because they allow us to predict the environmental consequences of an investment and, therefore, to both protect our environment and improve the use of funds.
the epp group has rejected all unnecessary, ineffective or redundant measures so that this text remains an effective tool for improving projects with an environmental impact.
it is clear to me that we must at the same time facilitate...
mr president, commissioner, this is a political directive, this is a directive to protect our health and our environment, finally!
this is a directive which makes it possible to introduce factors to combat climate change more effectively, thus allowing better respect for biodiversity and to combat and prevent the risks of natural disasters.
now, we are in a debate to fight against this climate change, to better prevent it, and to be in a policy of precaution with respect to shale gas.
and, again, it is the same people who say that we should make sure that we can, not defend the health and the environment of europeans, by being in this adventure of fracking shale gas... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing.
the aid will help to co-finance active labour market measures in the region aimed at the reintegration of dismissed workers and the creation of long-term sustainable jobs for the population of the region.
in the current economic climate, i think this is essential.
rather than being subjected to competition based on social and ecological dumping, the industry's recovery is based on ecological conversion.
the union's money would be better spent on inventing the vehicles and engines of the future that run entirely on renewable and co2-free energy.
corruption also has considerable social, political, and environmental costs.
it undermines democracy and makes possible serious damage to the environment and human safety by bribing the authorities responsible for enforcing regulations.
in 2009, the eu adopted rules on safety, quality management and pollution prevention.
and it is a strong signal to our mauritanian partner, with a text that establishes sustainable fisheries and takes into account the needs of the local population.
the fisheries agreement between the european union and mauritania strikes a balance between, on the one hand, access to surpluses off the mauritanian coast for european fishermen and, on the other, protection of the marine environment and the renewal of stocks.
this compromise is in line with the new cfp objectives of more sustainable fisheries and more responsible management of marine resources.
it is the first protocol which really takes into account environmental and development concerns, in particular by allowing mauritania to take ownership of its own needs.
this new protocol is in line with the principle of policy coherence for development and strengthens local fisheries while integrating environmental imperatives.
this protocol, unlike the previous fisheries agreement, imposes strict requirements on european vessels, which are as much in favour of more sustainable fishing and the protection of marine resources as of the economic and social development of mauritania.
the eu says it wants to make women's rights a priority in future sustainable development strategies.
the report states that support measures for girls and women should be put in place by encouraging the creation of an educational and social environment in which women and men, as well as girls and boys, are treated equally.
i voted in favour of this text because i believe, in particular, that regional and local authorities have a role to play in achieving the europe 2020 strategy's objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
with specific reference to maritime policies, this report actively supports pacific regional efforts to improve the sustainable management of resources and the sustainability of fisheries activities.
sustainable fisheries therefore offer vital environmental and social benefits to pacific countries.
participatory ecological planning work will have to be carried out.
for the time being, the agreements between the european union and the producing countries must at least be of a high environmental and social standard.
the aim of this strategy is to establish a legal framework that allows for the protection of marine biodiversity, sustainable fishing and the introduction of measures to combat illegal fishing.
the report also calls for the future fisheries strategy to be linked to the future of the cotonou agreement, which will, for example, promote the social and economic development of the pacific region, adaptation to climate change and the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
in addition, the report promotes cooperation and the exchange of good practice between coastal states and urges coastal states to ratify cooperation agreements on sustainable fisheries.
this is why it is essential to strengthen cooperation between the states bordering them, to ensure that they continue to fulfil this role in the future through the sustainable management and exploitation of their resources.
the maritime area covered by this report, where disputes remain over the delimitation of maritime borders among the 28 coastal states, is a major geopolitical and ecological issue.
it also promotes cooperation agreements on sustainable fisheries.
these are measures which i believe are positive in establishing a legal framework for the protection of marine biodiversity and the control of fish stocks.
this is the case in many areas, including the environment: environmental impact studies are a very good thing, because they make it possible to predict the environmental consequences of an investment, and thus both protect our environment and improve the use of funds.
the epp group has rejected all unnecessary, ineffective or redundant measures so that this text remains an effective tool for improving projects with an environmental impact.
in updating the directive on the assessment of the environmental impact of certain public and private projects, the european parliament added shale gas exploration and extraction projects using hydraulic fracturing to the list of projects requiring an impact assessment.
in view of the potential environmental and public health hazards of shale gas (and coal gas) exploration and extraction projects using hydraulic fracturing, it seems quite obvious that an environmental impact assessment should be carried out beforehand.
hydraulic fracturing, the only technique currently operational, does indeed pose environmental and public health problems (pollution of groundwater, use of toxic products, etc.)
the adoption of this report confirms europe's ambition for environmental safety.
thanks to this text, we will now take the environment into account more closely when implementing public or private projects that may have an impact on it.
but we must be careful that these rules, while better for the environment, do not unnecessarily burden our businesses.
this report sets out a systematic assessment of the environmental, health and climate impact of public and private projects.
however, the harmonisation and standardisation of procedures for assessing the environmental impact of certain infrastructures adds an excessive administrative burden.
the anti-carbon obsession is turning all european projects - some of which, like this one, are well-intentioned - into gas factories.
the implementation of the environmental regulations decided by brussels will never lead to an improvement in the competitiveness of french and european companies and industries.
the commission will be proposing a new framework for the development of the european union's energy policy, which will be based on the principles of the treaty on european union and the treaty on european union.
the issue of the effects of shale gas on the environment is a major concern of our citizens.
special measures should also be adopted to prevent any conflict of interest and to ensure that the public is informed and consulted on the progress of certain public and private environmental projects.
i voted against the report by my colleague andrea zanoni, which imposes disproportionate and costly obligations on smes, particularly when it comes to the exploitation of energy sources, since the mere assessment of a reserve will involve lengthy and costly procedures, irrespective of whether the site concerned is subsequently exploited or not.
- i voted against this report which provides for the implementation and strengthening of the via directive, after assessing the environmental impact of certain public and private projects.
i consider that the general approach, while taking into account the need to pursue the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy on the reduction of the environmental impact of public and/or private infrastructure and buildings, does not, however, take due account of the costs of implementing those directives and the operational constraints they would entail.
my vote against is therefore an invitation to review the approach to the subject, seeking to combine environmental sustainability with business competitiveness.
certain public and private projects, such as the construction of motorways or mining sites, must be subject to an environmental impact assessment (eia) in order to be authorised by the member states.
the revision of the directive on such impact assessments aims to simplify procedures and take account of new environmental factors.
i voted in favour of this text because, despite its imperfections, it improves and simplifies the regulations on environmental impact assessment.
i am voting in favour of this report on the legal requirements for environmental impact assessment (eia) of public or private projects on the environment because it considerably strengthens the right to public consultation, improves the ex post monitoring of projects with adverse effects on the environment, from the selection and implementation phase of a project.
i also support, as requested in parliament's november 2012 resolution on the environmental impact of shale gas and oil shale extraction, the inclusion of these activities in annex i of the directive, so that exploration projects for so-called unconventional hydrocarbons are systematically and compulsorily subject to an eia.
the text seeks to strengthen the obligations to assess the environmental impact of certain projects.
this impact assessment directive had not been revised since 1985. yet attention to environmental issues has increased considerably and the negative effects of indifference are now evident.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
it is a liberal and accountable approach to the ecological challenge.
it will not make it possible to radically reorient production and equipment projects in an ecological direction.
i abstain on this text in order not to prevent any small step forward in terms of transparency vis-à-vis the lobbies, even though this report is far removed from the ecological planning that is required today in the face of the widespread destruction of the human ecosystem.
i voted in favour of this report, which revises the environmental impact assessment (eia) directive.
after a postponement in the last plenary sessions, we should welcome this result, which shows our determination to give priority to environmental protection.
i see it as an invitation to give priority to alternative solutions to fossil fuels, which have a more positive environmental impact.
i voted in favour of the report on the 'evaluation of the impact of certain public and private projects on the environment'.
the report calls on the competent authorities of the member states to assess the environmental impact of a public or private project before it is implemented.
in this report i also stressed that the exploitation of shale gas by hydraulic fracturing should also be the subject of an environmental impact assessment, in accordance with the precautionary principle.
on 9 october, the european parliament adopted a draft directive which has received a lot of attention from large companies and environmental ngos: the environmental impact assessment (eia) directive.
this text requires that major public and private projects (construction of bridges, ports, motorways, waste dumps, intensive poultry or pig farming, etc.)
should be subject to environmental impact studies before they are carried out.
this report shall also provide for consultations with the populations concerned by the projects, including in the context of transnational projects; however, this is only possible if the community provisions on information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters (aarhus convention) are respected.
i voted for this directive, which is designed to ensure that environmental issues are better taken into account in public policy and can facilitate citizen awareness.
before determining whether the extraction of an oil or gas presents environmental risks, it is also necessary to know whether the deposit has economic potential.
it seemed to me, however, essential, since the original aim of the legislative proposal was to lighten and simplify the administrative burden on project promoters, while ensuring strict respect for environmental protection.
it reviews in particular the environmental and safety requirements for pleasure craft and motorised watercraft.
the objective of this text is to limit emissions from pleasure boats and motorised watercraft, taking genuine account of the interests of both pleasure boaters and companies in the boat and engine manufacturing sector.
i voted in favour of this text which modernises the existing eu rules on safety and environmental protection for boats for private use, i.e.
i am in favour of strengthening the requirements to be met by the vessels concerned, particularly in terms of stability and buoyancy, as well as gas and noise emissions.
i voted in favour of the report by my colleague malcolm harbour which proposes balanced solutions to harmonise safety and environmental requirements for vessels ranging from sea scooters to yachts.
the amendments include reductions in noise and exhaust emissions, the introduction of more flexible conformity assessment procedures and alignment with horizontal standards on accreditation and ce marking.
the directive also provides for measures to reduce gas emissions by 20%.
i voted in favour of this text because i believe it improves the safety of motor boats and helps to reduce air and noise pollution, while giving companies enough time to adapt their products.
i voted in favour of the report on pleasure craft and motorised watercraft which harmonises safety and environmental performance requirements for boats from 2.5 to 24 metres.
it adapts legislation on engine noise and co2 emissions to hybrid propulsion and integrates the use of biofuels.
the text includes an environmental component, with a new measure making it compulsory to install tanks on vessels equipped with toilets to help protect the marine environment, as well as a stricter limit on greenhouse gas emissions, which takes account of developments in engine technology.
on 25 september the environment committee voted a resolution objecting to the draft commission regulation on the visual inspection of pigmeat in slaughterhouses.
the committee on the environment opposes this positive development, which has been recognised by the european food safety authority and is supported by an overwhelming majority of member states within the standing committee on the food chain and animal health of the union.
for all these reasons i voted against the resolution of the committee on the environment.
this agreement does have some social or environmental problems and even excludes the cultural sphere.
it was therefore very important to support this resolution which urges the commission to negotiate an ambitious and balanced investment agreement, in order to create a more favourable environment for union investors in china.
a private arbitration tribunal to handle conflicts between states and companies), with the risks that this may entail as we now know, on social or environmental regulations.
our social, wage, financial, environmental and tax standards are at a disadvantage in international markets, justifying various forms of protection and trade balancing.
the agreement highlights some positive points, recalling that these investments must serve general interest objectives, including social and environmental standards, human rights, safety, workers' and consumers' rights, public health and safety and cultural diversity.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we cannot afford to waste the potential of so many of our citizens.
this monitoring system should instead be ecological and in the general interest rather than a system for hunting down the poor.
cadmium-containing batteries are harmful to the environment and should be banned so that other types of batteries containing less harmful materials can be used.
given all the tools, batteries and accumulators we use in our daily lives and which contain batteries and components with cadmium, we must urgently look at their consequences for our health and the environment.
i voted in favour of this text because ending the derogation for the use of cadmium in portable batteries and accumulators for use in cordless power tools will reduce the overall environmental impact, both in terms of avoidable releases of cadmium into the natural environment and in terms of cumulative environmental impacts.
the main provisions are to ensure that waste batteries can be easily and gradually removed from end-of-life devices, while placing emphasis on their recyclability.
this report will thus meet strict and balanced environmental, health and economic requirements.
the report proposes to ban the presence of mercury in button cells, which easily escape the recycling system and thus contribute to pollution of our environment.
i voted in favour of amending the directive to limit the derogation to the use of cadmium in portable batteries and accumulators for wireless devices until 31 december 2016, thereby safeguarding the interests of both consumers and producers and ensuring the protection of the environment and human health.
i voted in favour of the report to ban the toxic substance cadmium in portable batteries for cordless power tools such as drills, screws, saws and keys from 31 december 2016. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the dangers of ionizing radiation.
the text also ends the derogation for button batteries to reduce the risk of mercury leakage into the environment.
the text is designed to strengthen measures to protect the environment and public health.
the effects of cadmium and mercury on human health and the environment are well established and well known.
but this text does not propose a major breakthrough: cadmium batteries and accumulators are responsible for a small part of the cadmium emissions into the environment.
the text ends the exception in the original directive for cordless portable tools in respect of cadmium, a carcinogenic metal which is toxic to the aquatic environment.
parliament also introduced a ban on mercury in button batteries (which are used in watches, toys and remote controls, among other things) from autumn 2015 to help reduce pollution, particularly related to the fact that these batteries easily escape recycling.
i voted in favour of the european parliament's draft resolution, which takes note of the petitions sent by european citizens and stresses the importance it attaches to human rights, the exercise of european citizenship and the environment, all of which are areas for which i am committed as a member of the european parliament.
these petitions mainly concern the environment, children's rights, freedom of movement and the right of access to information.
i voted in favour of the annual report on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2012. the report notes that while cases of petitions concerning alleged violations of union law in the areas of fundamental rights, the environment, the internal market and property rights indicate incomplete transpositions of union law or its misapplication, many petitions submitted do not fall within the union's competence.
i am asking - it is a personal request, it is not a request from my group - that we be very ambitious in our demands, with a commitment of 50 percent reduction of emissions by 2030. that means maintaining the level of ambition that we've had so far, and i would say that's not just a climate necessity, but also an economic necessity.
i would remind you that our energy bill is 400 billion euros a year and that it is therefore time to get rid of our dependence on co2.
i would also say that the major industries of the 21st century will be precisely those which meet the requirements of the energy transition, and we europeans, who were the pioneers in this field, must therefore also remain industrial leaders in all these sectors, in which the countries of the south are today trying to become world leaders.
finally, i would like to express my concern that among the sponsors of cop 19 there are companies which are clearly opposed to a reform of the european emissions trading system and to ambitious climate policies.
i am also concerned that in parallel with cop 19 the polish ministry of energy is planning to launch, together with the world coal association, a warsaw communiqué which, under the guise of promoting clean coal, sounds like nothing more than a call to keep fossil fuels in our energy mix.
mr president, commissioner, the latest ipcc report confirms the extent to which the risk, the potential drama of climate change is real and how much responsibility we have.
there's only one report from the world bank, from the beginning of its history, that talks about cataclysmic impact, talking about a human phenomenon related to our role, our responsibility, our behavior, our modes of production and consumption: it's the climate report.
the un negotiating process is not a simple process, but what we have to challenge here is not the negotiating process, but the lack of ambition of the heads of state and government who have not done enough on climate change for years.
we can see this in europe: unfortunately, the heads of state and government are far from being on the same page as the environment committee.
do they really think that with coal and shale gas and nuclear, as we see with the recent contracts in britain, we're going to get out of the economic crisis, we're going to get out of the climate crisis?
how many reports tell us how tackling climate change can bring us millions of jobs, modernize our economy, get us out of energy dependence?
and what will half this parliament, which wants to turn a blind eye to the tragedies of lampedusa, do when millions of climate refugees try to come to europe, because rising waters, weather shocks and reduced agricultural productivity will leave millions, tens and hundreds of millions of them on the planet?
at a time when europeans are doubting europe, i believe that the idea of going carbon-free is a good project for europe.
we have made europe about peace amongst ourselves, let us now make europe about peace with the planet and show how much we have a story to tell about the climate, about purchasing power, about reducing our energy consumption, how we can change the lives of millions of europeans around the fight against climate change, and all the benefits that this can bring us.
ninety-five percent of scientists say that global warming is man-made and that its consequences can be absolutely devastating.
one month before the big climate conference in warsaw, commissioner, it is now the moment of truth for policy makers and for all citizens of this earth.
the commitment has been made by the entire planet to fight global warming and to keep it below 2 degrees.
we must therefore strengthen the european emissions trading system and link it to other developing systems.
so the european union must be very clear about this: if the international community fails to reach an international agreement binding on all parties by the paris meeting at the end of 2015, the union will have to put in place a carbon-inclusion mechanism at the borders; i am referring to a carbon tax at the european union's borders, to tax products from countries that are not making the necessary efforts.
if international negotiations fail, the european union, in agreement with the wto, will have to restore fair competition between those who want to protect the planet and those who do not take into account the consequences of climate change.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
i congratulate the rapporteur on his work, on the energy he has put into the drafting of his report, and all our assistants.
how can we enable the new generation to thrive in a challenging and demanding economic environment by working together to build a successful european school system?
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the consumer is based on the recommendations of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
in general, the trade liberalization promoted by this process is harmful in the absence of social, ecological and health harmonization of production conditions.
its production conditions can be bad from an ecological point of view, harmful to the health of citizens (exposure to pesticides) and to local quality products which are dumped.
i believe that the whole of the union's trade policy should be reviewed in the direction of solidarity-based and ecological protectionism.
the report ignores the crucial question of the social and ecological conditions under which these medical devices are produced.
again, the report does not address the crucial question of the social and ecological conditions under which these medical devices are produced.
with almost all (90% in 2009) eu shipowners circumventing the general ban on the transfer of hazardous waste to non-oecd countries and dismantling their ships in countries such as india or bangladesh, there is an urgent need for stronger rules.
the agreement reached will, i hope, make for cleaner dismantling, in particular through the creation of a global list of recycling facilities meeting minimum health and environmental criteria.
it has two aspects which are of great importance to europe: it is not only intended to eliminate a threat to the environment, but it is also intended to ensure the protection of workers who are responsible for dismantling our ships under often unacceptable conditions.
more explicit requirements for ship recycling facilities should be introduced to ensure that recycling and waste treatment are environmentally sound.
i support reducing the disparities between operators in the european union, oecd countries and third countries concerned in health and safety at work and environmental standards.
as ships are made up of many dangerous and toxic substances, they should normally comply with strict recycling requirements, aimed at protecting both the environment and the health of workers.
yet many end-of-life ships are sent to third countries for scrapping, where basic social and environmental standards are not respected.
it will thus allow for better compliance with environmental standards, while at the same time strengthening the competitiveness of the european ship recycling market, which creates many jobs in our ports.
the issue of ship dismantling and recycling is both an environmental and an industrial issue.
more than ever, local zero-waste industrial cycles need to be promoted.
the south must not be europe's garbage bin, allowing it to shine in ecological matters on the back of the health of slave workers in india, africa or bangladesh.
the text will improve and strengthen health and environmental standards for ship recycling and prevent end-of-life european vessels from being illegally sent to low-cost third countries to be dismantled under questionable conditions.
many eu-flagged vessels are being dismantled at low cost in unacceptable environmental and sanitary conditions, particularly in south-east asia.
the text adopted by the european parliament should improve and strengthen the health and environmental standards for ship recycling.
i voted in favour of this text which improves environmental protection and contributes to the competitiveness of our ship recycling industry.
i voted in favour of the report on ship recycling which improves the health and environmental standards for ship recycling.
the text aims in particular to prevent european ships at the end of their life being transferred outside the european union, in particular to south-east asia, to be dismantled under dubious conditions, particularly in relation to the treatment of hazardous waste.
the developing countries cannot be the garbage of the world where ships die and are torn apart in social and ecological conditions that are unbearable.
the text was not revolutionary in any way, but it did have the merit of conveying the clear message that there were setbacks here and there in europe, that the current political and economic climate threatened respect for sexual and reproductive health and rights.
the report even laments that "the revenues from the exploitation of energy resources are not sufficiently reintroduced into the local economy".
the role of qualifications in the ecological bifurcation of the productive system is also totally unrecognised.
i voted in favour of this report, which proposes modern and effective solutions to rethink education and reconcile it with a successful entry into the world of work, in a context where unemployment affects almost a quarter of young europeans under the age of 25. the report encourages the development of all initiatives aimed at bringing the worlds of education and vocational training closer together: awareness-raising on entrepreneurship and sustainable and sought-after jobs (e.g.
prevention of the risks involved means avoiding considerable hospital costs and, above all, many deaths: it is considered that between 30 and 40% of adverse events in the hospital sector and in the hospital environment are caused by systemic factors, which are therefore preventable!
i support actions that work to support a healthy economic environment.
this fund shall constitute the financial component of the cfp for the period 2014-2020. the emff has a key role to play in ensuring a sustainable fishing model.
my report therefore proposes concrete instruments for sustainable fishing, while at the same time allowing the sector to be competitive.
if i may make this remark, this time in a humorous tone: if the commission were to agree to spend on fleet renewal even the amount it has just spent on telephone bills to try to get the principle of renewal rejected, the safety and energy performance of our ships would already be somewhat improved.
while some people are content with incantations, i propose strong action for sustainable fishing and conservation of the resource.
the renewal, as proposed, is a concrete measure for sustainable fishing and also for capacity reduction.
the achievement of maximum sustainable yield requires a better knowledge of fish stocks.
it is the duty of the union to facilitate the implementation of zero emissions, including through public support.
they are the key to sustainable fishing, which safeguards stocks and sustains the industry.
ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow's vote will be an opportunity to promote a sustainable fishing model for the next ten years.
for me, sustainable fishing is not just about wishful thinking and good feelings.
sustainable fishing is above all about taking concrete measures to eliminate overfishing and to control the capacity of the fleet while allowing fishermen to make a living from their trade.
tomorrow, vote for sustainable fishing, vote against overfishing, vote for my report!
this is the relative weight of the objectives of economic and social sustainability, since they were not translated into practice in the emff.
this unfair competition on the ecological and social level means that we now import more than 65% of the seafood we consume.
the cfp requires fishermen to make a lot of effort by setting ambitious sustainability targets, including - and rightly so - the mdg.
later this week the european council will have a further opportunity to make progress towards improving competitiveness and returning to strong and sustainable growth and job creation.
we must urgently address the underlying shortcomings and create the right environment for investment.
creating the right business environment is also key to stimulating growth.
tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, growth and employment, in december defence, in march energy.
we do not need 60 or 100 billion, we need 1 to 1 500 billion over a decade for digital, transport and energy, with the idea that we can also introduce compulsory contributions from the consumers of these services.
the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
mr president, mr president-in-office, commissioner, over the last 30 years the arctic has lost 15% of its surface area and 40% of its thickness because of our greenhouse gas emissions.
crime pays off because those who produce the co2, those who go to get it, will be able to get it a little bit more in the arctic, because the arctic is a victim of our greenhouse gas emissions.
the arctic cannot be a playground for the big energy companies, the arctic cannot be a no-go zone.
we have to save the arctic, we have to save the climate.
i was pleased that the committee on the environment, public health and food safety voted in favour of a change in the legal basis, even though this is contrary to the wishes of the rapporteur and the commission.
it is therefore very important to incorporate these recommendations on radon, as well as those on environmental protection, since they concern radioactive discharges.
- madam president, commissioner, tomorrow the european parliament will approve the political agreement reached on 19 june with the council and the commission on the 7th environment action programme, and i look forward to that.
this programme sets out the broad guidelines for european environmental policy up to 2020, with nine priority objectives and a set of concrete commitments to improve the state of the environment in europe and worldwide.
today, the challenges remain: pressure on natural resources, degradation of ecosystems, energy consumption, air and soil pollution, waste - especially marine waste - health risks and climate change.
in my report and throughout the negotiations, i have been committed to advocating an environmental policy which is both ambitious and realistic in the face of the difficult economic environment and international challenges.
first, i called for a high level of protection of natural capital and biodiversity, in line with my longstanding commitment to forests, seas and oceans, endangered species like bees, and protected species like wolves.
in these times of economic crisis and austerity, emphasising environmental policy might seem secondary.
environmental action does have costs, but it also has benefits which public finances and private investors cannot ignore in the present period.
this is why environmental concerns should no longer be the adjustment variable, but should be integrated very early on into the various sectoral policies.
this new deal is based on an economy which innovates, which uses energy and raw materials efficiently, which produces and consumes in an intelligent way, avoiding waste, while preserving the competitiveness of enterprises.
to be better accepted and applied, european environmental legislation must be based on a sound scientific basis, be more coherent and simplified, and respect the principles of smart regulation.
the effectiveness of european funding in the environmental field will also need to be improved in order to ensure tangible results on the ground.
the communication of the union on its environmental policy will also have to be reviewed.
it was important to recognise in this report the need for a legal framework beyond 2020 for europe's climate and energy policy.
we must also avoid the pitfall of commercial naivety by fighting environmental dumping and unfair competition.
the aim is now to ensure that the commitments made by the union and the member states under this programme are effectively met and that european environmental legislation is fully implemented.
i would also like to stress the adaptations to national support programmes which will make it possible to carry out information campaigns on responsible wine consumption and quality systems of origin and to undertake research on environmental quality and food safety.
the sector needs sustainability today.
i voted in favour of this report which sends a clear message to the council on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. the aim was to remind the council of our priorities for the 2014 budget, in particular sustainable economic growth, job creation and the fight against youth unemployment, and to ensure that a budget of a sufficient and realistic level was established.
with a budget of 1% of european gdp, how can we expect the union to achieve its objectives, particularly in terms of growth, employment and the energy transition?
the european parliament should have a completely different general interest ambition for the revival of ecological activity and planning in europe.
this report is the culmination of the european commission's green paper calling for a better understanding of the marine environment by 2020. the aim here is to make the most of the new technologies available in order to obtain the most comprehensive picture of the state of the natural resources and the marine environment as a whole.
i voted in favour of the report, convinced that better information will help us to protect the marine environment.
through close cooperation between the member states of the union and thus through the wide dissemination of knowledge on the marine environment, this report is in line with the objectives set by the new common fisheries policy and its financing component, the european maritime and fisheries fund.
to become involved in sustainable fisheries, data on the seabed must be better collected, transmitted and centralised as far as possible by 2020. currently owned by a large number of stakeholders, it is essential to have a comprehensive understanding of and easy access to the public.
the aim is to reconcile two fundamental pillars of our action: raising awareness among europeans and protecting our marine environment, for the benefit of the economy, europeans, fishermen and the environment.
i voted in favour of this text, which will help to stimulate the ambitious project proposed by the european commission, which is the development of an accessible and sustainable digital map of the european seabed.
it is important to work with member states to identify the means and mechanisms available to develop our knowledge of the marine environment for the benefit of industry, public authorities, researchers and society.
strengthening our knowledge of the marine environment is a step forward in the european union's project to foster the growth of a sustainable 'blue economy' that creates jobs in the marine and maritime sectors.
− knowledge of the marine environment is of fundamental importance for promoting and developing the 'blue economy' and expanding oceanographic knowledge, and also contributing to the achievement of the 'europe 2020' objectives for the sea.
improving oceanographic knowledge through the development of a continuous multi-resolution digital map of the european seabed will facilitate the use of resources for sustainable, targeted and inclusive growth for all actors such as public authorities and industry, education and research.
i voted in favour of the marine knowledge report 2020 following the european commission's communication which stresses the need to unlock the economic potential of marine observations in order to foster sustainable economic growth and job creation.
this will allow for better knowledge of marine environments and fisheries resources, which is necessary for better protection of the ecosystem in general and of vulnerable areas in particular.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
as for co2 emissions from vehicles, or the solar panel industry, the commission will be following the most influential country: germany.
this legislative package will help to steer the european union towards a sustainable fisheries policy that is resource-based, while at the same time offering fishermen the necessary opportunities to adapt their activities.
it will also allow, under certain conditions, the replacement of engines for lower consumption and co2 emissions.
the emff as adopted by parliament gives fishermen the means to implement the reform of the common fisheries policy in the context of sustainable fisheries.
the european maritime and fisheries fund is a key instrument for financing the common fisheries policy, and the rapporteur's proposals were in the right direction, towards sustainable fisheries and support for european fishermen, especially those working in small structures.
the european maritime and fisheries fund must help to put an end to this problem and enable the sector to move towards sustainable fishing that respects the resources that the oceans offer.
this instrument is essential if sustainable european fisheries are to be effectively established.
i did not support mr cadec's proposal because it jeopardises the possibility of a truly sustainable fishery!
instead of ending overfishing, the majority of meps preferred to allocate these funds to practices that are in conflict with the sustainability of the cfp.
this fund was supposed to ensure responsible european fisheries, the protection of marine biodiversity and the future of fishermen, but this may not be the case.
the european fund we have just approved aims to move our fisheries towards a more sustainable model which respects the resources of the sea, and i welcome this.
this fund validates this vision by making it possible to combat illegal fishing more effectively, by promoting the renewal of a more sustainable fleet and by enabling fishermen to better comply with the ban on discards.
the emff also provides for increased support for data collection, assistance for the settlement of young fishermen engaged in sustainable fishing, and an ambitious social component to improve the living and working conditions of fishermen.
after 18 months of difficult negotiations, this report reflects a good balance between the desire to ensure the survival of an entire sector weakened by the crisis and the need to guarantee sustainable fisheries with respect for ecosystems.
the conservation of fisheries resources is another priority which, beyond the environmental imperative, will enable fishermen to continue their activity in the coming decades with the financing of biological rest periods and the increase in the resources allocated to monitoring and data collection.
the report aims to ensure sustainable, competitive and social fisheries by introducing conservation measures, diversifying fishermen's income and enforcing compliance with social legislation.
i regret, however, the rejection of the only instrument for reducing fishing capacity, which made aid for the renewal of small-scale fishing vessels in fleets with overcapacity conditional on reducing their fishing capacity and energy consumption.
i voted in favour of this text which will allow the development of a sustainable and competitive fishery.
this replacement should result in a 40% reduction in the vessel's capacity, fishing effort and energy consumption.
the €6.5 billion fund will help fishermen implement the fisheries reform adopted at european level for sustainable fisheries.
with our vote, this fund will make concrete the ambitious reforms achieved in the regulatory area of maximum fishing yield, which reflect our desire to ensure a transition to sustainable fishing.
this fund will help to limit overfishing while maintaining sustainable jobs in the maritime sector.
as a general rule, i voted in favour of the european maritime fund so that it can enable the european union to achieve its transition to sustainable fishing and to achieve its objective of restoring fish stocks.
it shows that it is possible to reconcile sustainable fishing without condemning the fishermen.
this measure will provide a sustainable option for west indian fishermen in the face of the chlordedecone crisis.
− the vote on the fisheries fund was crucial to reaching a political agreement by the end of the year to allow the fund to start work in january 2014. support sustainable management of fisheries resources, which will in turn ensure stability in the development of the fisheries sector and ensure the long-term well-being of the population.
i believe that funds should be allocated to projects that contribute to the future sustainability of the fisheries sector and coastal communities, the restoration of fish stocks, the reduction of the impact of fishing on the marine environment and the progressive elimination of discarding practices.
it also stresses the need to promote sustainable, environmentally friendly fishing.
we also stressed the importance of eu co-financing linked to small-scale fishing, which is essential for the economic, social and ecological development of coastal communities.
the fund will help fishermen invest in energy-efficient boats and more selective fishing gear, thereby reducing unwanted catches and their discards.
in addition to the support measures for sustainable fishing, i welcome the adoption of support measures, particularly for the establishment of young fishermen and the protection of small-scale fishing, which is threatened by industrial and intensive fishing, as is the case in my region.
at the recent conferences (durban and doha), the international community committed itself to a global, binding regime for the effective reduction of co2 emissions by 2015 and to applying it by 2020. the latest ipcc report shows how urgent it is to move forward.
in reality, climate change is everyone's business.
if it fails, i believe the european union will have to take responsibility and introduce a carbon tax at the eu's borders to rebalance international competition with those who would not make the effort.
i regret that the european parliament, by a narrow margin, rejected the amendment i had tabled to this effect, which had been adopted by the parliament's committee on the environment.
climate change is now widely accepted by the scientific community.
in this respect, the latest report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) is encouraging.
let us be clear: the environment is a decisive key to overcoming the endless crisis of our economic "model".
i have voted in favour of a number of ambitious and unambiguous amendments against oil and shale gas, which are an environmental and economic deadlock.
finally, i believe that the european union should move decisively towards a carbon contribution at the external borders of its space in order not to penalise our companies which are directly subject to ecological dumping by our trading partners.
in view of the warsaw conference on climate change in november 2013, this motion for a resolution has the merit of calling for a global regime that abolishes all distinctions between industrialized and developing countries.
i welcome the rejection of the amendment calling for a 30% reduction in co2 emissions by 2020 and a 50% reduction by 2050. in the absence of an international agreement, the european union cannot impose such a constraint on itself.
i regret, however, the rejection of the carbon tax at the union's borders.
the fight against climate change is a major ambition on the european agenda: the european parliament is the voice of europeans on this issue, and that is why it was necessary for us to define a clear position so that it can be relayed during the international negotiations that will soon take place in warsaw.
i welcome the fact that this position is realistic: we must align climate objectives and industrial, research and innovation policy, to protect jobs and growth without jeopardising the environment.
i regret, however, that the proposal to integrate a carbon mechanism at the border has been rejected: it is a common sense measure, for the benefit of all europeans and their environment, and i will remain committed to this issue.
the unrealistic targets of 30 to 50% reduction in emissions by 2020 and 2030 have been removed from the text, and i welcome this.
while tackling climate change must clearly be a priority, it cannot be done at the expense of the competitiveness of our industrial fabric.
this text is a strong signal in favour of a climate policy negotiated at global level and which is not a burden for our companies.
i voted in favour of the resolution for the climate change conference in warsaw.
it reiterated the european union's support for an ambitious but realistic policy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
the european parliament adopted a common position ahead of the un climate change conference in warsaw in november.
although the fight against climate change must remain a priority for the european union (eu), i voted against this resolution in which we make unilateral commitments.
i believe that the european union should not be left to reduce greenhouse gases on its own, when it accounts for only 11% of global emissions.
as such, the commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by 2020 provided that other major emitters make similar commitments is a step in the right direction.
i regret, however, that the resolution adopted does not call for the introduction of a carbon tax at the eu's borders.
such a tax would protect european industry, which is subject to the eu's emissions quota system, while non-eu companies are excluded.
it seems to me that it is essential that such systems be extended globally to have a real impact on climate change.
i voted in favour of the resolution on the climate change conference in preparation for the un conference in warsaw in november, which will bring together the 192 countries party to the kyoto protocol.
the 20% target for reducing co2 emissions by 2020 must be maintained, and the eu could support a 30% reduction target if other emitting countries commit to this target.
this resolution is a reminder of the environmental emergency we are facing.
climate change is an imminent and potentially irreversible threat to human societies, biodiversity and the planet, and therefore requires an international action plan involving all parties.
it persists in measures that we know are ineffective, such as the greenhouse gas emissions trading system.
he even claims that "a global carbon market would provide a sound basis for substantial emissions reductions".
according to the world bank, current levels of co2 emissions suggest a global warming of 2°c above pre-industrial levels by 2050 and 4°c by 2100. a 4°c increase in temperature could have catastrophic consequences: floods, increased malnutrition, worsening drought, heat waves, water shortages, irreversible loss of biodiversity, climate migrations... i therefore voted in favour of this ambitious text which will serve as a negotiating mandate for members attending the next un climate conference in warsaw in november.
however, if no binding global agreement on emissions reductions is reached in 2015, i believe the eu will need to put in place a carbon tax at the border so that imported products that do not comply with any environmental measures do not compete with european products subject to strict co2 emission requirements.
i voted in favour of this resolution which reaffirms the need to take the climate change issue into our own hands.
i supported this report which stresses the catastrophic effects of climate change and supports the responsibility of all states to cooperate in order to take urgent action.
as the findings of the ipcc fifth assessment report indicate, human activity is indeed responsible for climate change.
the temperature increase could exceed 2 degrees, the level allowed to avoid falling into the climate disorder with unsuspected consequences.
but in terms of climate, it is the only way forward.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the iacolino report has the advantage of addressing organised crime in multiple dimensions, ranging from money laundering to trafficking in human beings, arms and drugs trafficking, environmental crime and cybercrime.
it welcomed the country-specific recommendations, which call, for france and others, for the precariousness of employment, for structural reform of pensions, for the total liberalisation of the energy market and for the freedom to set up large-scale businesses.
in line with my commitment to the environment, i voted in favour of this environment action programme which aims to strengthen the contribution of environmental policy to the transition to a more resource-efficient and carbon-neutral economy, in particular by imposing a legal framework for climate and energy policy.
i supported mr franco's report on the strengthening of a european economy geared to environmental protection.
this text will make it possible to integrate environmental concerns in a transversal way into the various sectoral policies of the union.
these ambitious objectives can only be achieved by setting up a genuine european environmental diplomacy: it is time for the union to speak with one voice if it is to have a real impact.
the central objective of this text is also to put the citizen at the heart of its action, with actions of education, information, training and access to justice, because environmental protection also involves our daily actions.
i voted in favour of this text because i am in favour of establishing a new strategic framework for the union's environmental policy, which is consistent between the objectives set and the instruments provided to achieve them.
i also believe that the seventh environmental action programme, 'living well, within the limits of our planet', should also send a strong political message from the union to the rest of the world.
the union must get third countries to commit themselves as much as it does to the environment and climate.
the european parliament adopted a general eu environment policy programme for 2020. we have identified nine priority objectives, such as biodiversity, sustainable consumption and production, and nanomaterials.
we have called for better implementation of environmental legislation and for environmental issues to be integrated into all eu policies.
we also stressed the need to protect the union's biodiversity and to strengthen the links between environmental and industrial policies.
concrete measures have been adopted, such as limiting the landfilling of non-recyclable waste, strengthening inspections and gradually reducing environmentally harmful subsidies.
i voted in favour of this programme because i believe that it is essential to adopt a transversal strategy for environmental policy in order to ensure the consistency of the european union's action in this field.
i voted in favour of the report on the general union action programme for the environment to 2020. environmental considerations must be taken as a whole and integrated into the various sectors of the economy.
beyond the commitment of public administration, the use of public-private partnerships should be encouraged, particularly in the waste management sector.
the preservation of extraordinary and ordinary biodiversity is also an essential point, which we must not neglect, lest we reach a point of no return and lose the potential of our natural capital.
i voted in favour of the report on the eu's general environmental action programme to 2020: living well within the limits of our planet.
the general action programme aims to ensure the transition of the european economy towards a resource-efficient economy, in particular by reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
the programme also aims to protect and preserve europe's natural capital by strengthening and deepening the natura 2000 network, which aims to protect europe's biodiversity.
in the internal market for electronic communications, it is essential to strike the right balance between a technological environment that requires rapid change and an economic environment that needs a stable framework.
the difficulties in accessing these technologies sometimes result in the exclusion of these populations from our societies and in difficulties in integrating them into the socio-professional environment.
the economic climate we are in is a huge challenge for young people.
the emergence of a european area of lifelong learning will help to bring the union out of the crisis and back to sustainable and inclusive smart growth.
because, sixty years after the start of our adventure, it is clear that much progress still needs to be made: delays at the borders, missing sections on some networks, difficulties in planning a long-distance journey, difficulties in interconnecting energy networks, and weak telecommunications networks.
but we will also increase both the energy security of europe as a whole and its capacity in the new digital world.
concerns about climate change were also taken into account, with a focus on sustainable transport modes, including rail and inland waterway transport.
i am convinced that by speeding up the development of the transeuropean transport, energy and telecommunications networks, this new fund will help us to overcome the crisis that the european union has been experiencing for the last few years.
we cannot write that priority must be given to sustainable projects and those that make europe move forward the most, and then include the lyon-turin high-speed rail project in this central network when we know that it will draw on the majority of european funds.
i am simply surprised to see that only the greens express their opposition, whereas these reports have a strong environmental connotation and are a real tool for progress in this area.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, how many more disasters, typhoons, devastating and deadly hurricanes will we have to endure before we realise the urgency of taking an ambitious and responsible step in the fight against global warming?
eleven million people affected, more than 10,000 dead: this is the terrible toll of typhoon haiyan which devastated the philippines and which the filipino negotiator, on hunger strike, recalled in warsaw at the cop 19 climate summit.
three minutes of silence were observed in tribute to a people in distress, but it is not emotion and silence that the philippines and all the people threatened in the short term by climate change need, it is clear actions and commitments for the future, humanitarian aid but also commitments to reduce our co2 emissions.
i call on our parliament, poland and our representatives in warsaw to express our support for strong, clear and binding climate commitments by the end of the week.
because as long as this parliament, the european parliament, does not go to the front of the revolt and tell the council and the commission that we need a european stimulus budget for the energy transition, for economic recovery, to help countries that can no longer raise funds themselves, you will follow this neoliberal logic, blackmailing countries like the netherlands, like the united kingdom, you will take europe into the wall.
i regret, however, the fall in agricultural expenditure and the decline in investment in the transport and energy sectors.
the aid will help to co-finance active labour market measures in the region aimed at the reintegration of dismissed workers and the creation of sustainable jobs for the population of the region.
the two improvements made relate to the rules governing invitations to tender (transparency, equal treatment, possibility of using electronic tendering, obligation for the parties to create a central database containing notices of public contracts free of charge, possibility of taking account of the environmental dimension, etc.)
the possibility of introducing environmental conditions in tendering procedures is a very small step forward in the face of the risks of this new trade liberalization.
the themes of action chosen are particularly relevant: active european citizenship, intercultural dialogue, the well-being of people in europe around employment, social cohesion and sustainable development, and the impact of community policies on societies.
the emi will be the new financing instrument for three eu infrastructure networks: transport, energy and telecommunications.
significant investments in modern, efficient, sustainable and flexible networks are key to the europe 2020 strategy for sustainable economic growth.
eur 5.12 billion will be allocated to energy, to modernise and extend energy infrastructure and to increase security of supply.
i welcome the adoption of the connecting europe facility (cef) to finance a european network in the fields of transport, energy and telecommunications.
the security of energy supply can be guaranteed.
the adoption of the report on the connecting europe facility, which will finance the trans-european transport network, marks a new era in the european union's transport policy: it sets more stringent funding criteria for sustainable transport modes, in particular rail transport, and provides more substantial funding for projects with european added value, including cross-border works to remove the most important congestion areas in europe.
this ambitious text aims to provide the union with a mechanism to facilitate investment in truly european transport, energy and telecommunications networks.
it is a further step towards the completion of a single market, with greater energy security, more reliable and easier transport between european countries, and ever faster and cheaper telecommunications.
i voted in favour of this text which establishes a connecting europe facility (cef) because i am convinced that such an instrument will be effective in accelerating investment and mobilising the necessary funding for the development of transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure.
the eic will not only contribute to the europe 2020 strategy by developing trans-european networks that take into account future transport flows and create a more favourable environment for private, public or public-private partnership investments; the commission will also be able to support projects with real european added value.
in the negotiations with the council on the priority transeuropean transport networks (ten-t), the greens succeeded in integrating new criteria: sustainability, social (creating jobs), the need for european added value (the projects financed could not be without europe).
i voted against this agreement, however, because there is a total mismatch between these sustainability criteria and the fact that it focuses only on nine corridors, which are strategic, but which have a good chance of being funded anyway.
i voted in favour of this text because it will make it possible to develop the trans-european transport, energy and telecommunications networks, and thus improve the economic and social cohesion of our territories.
infrastructure financed as a priority should have a high added value at union level, be smart, sustainable and benefit all member states and their regions.
the programme will also support territorial development and employment by modernising europe's energy infrastructure, increasing supply and reducing dependence on a specific energy source.
i supported the report by my colleagues dominique riquet, adina-ioana valean and ines ayala sender which aims to accelerate investment in trans-european transport, energy and telecommunications networks through a specific mechanism.
the budget for the programme is 33 billion euro, of which 26 billion euro is for transport, 1 billion euro for telecommunications and 6 billion euro for energy.
i voted in favour of the report establishing the connecting europe facility, which aims to accelerate investment in the trans-european transport, energy and telecommunications networks.
the €23 billion investment over the period 2014-2020 will make a significant contribution to european economic growth and job creation through investment in transport, energy and telecommunications networks.
these are crucial for the internal market and will improve cross-border mobility, interconnection of energy networks to diversify gas supply and explore the possibility of transporting renewable energy.
this report deals with the 'connecting europe facility' (cef) and sets out the common rules and procedures for the granting of eu financial assistance to trans-european networks in three main areas: transport, energy and telecommunications.
the commission's aim is not the social and ecological utility of the projects financed, but the completion of the internal market and competitiveness.
we must reverse this logic and implement a genuine ecological planning in the service of the general human interest.
investment in transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure should stimulate hiring at the time of construction, create operating opportunities at commissioning, and increase the attractiveness of the regions concerned.
by promoting the interoperability of electricity and gas networks, the text should help to reduce the energy insecurity of the member states.
i therefore voted in favour of the connecting europe facility, especially as it is a powerful instrument for european integration and the creation of sustainable infrastructure.
the purpose of this regulation is to centralise, simplify and make conditional the allocation of funds in the field of transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure, with a view to supporting the creation of integrated european networks.
removing bottlenecks to cross-border traffic and promoting more sustainable modes of transport, in particular rail, are among the objectives prioritised in the report adopted today.
i voted in favour of this text because i support the creation of this trans-european transport network (ten-t), which provides europe with an efficient, sustainable transport network that benefits its users and promotes accessibility and connectivity in all regions of the union.
in the negotiations with the council on the priority transeuropean transport networks (ten-t), the greens succeeded in integrating new criteria: sustainability, social (creating jobs), the need for european added value (the projects financed could not be without europe).
i voted against this agreement, however, because there is a total mismatch between these sustainability criteria and the fact that it focuses only on nine corridors, which are strategic, but which have a good chance of being funded anyway.
although targets for reducing greenhouse gases are mentioned, they are not binding.
we must have a real ecological planning system, with short-distance transport being the priority, and where short-distance transport is not possible, infrastructure must be created to enable goods to be transported over long distances in an environmentally friendly way.
the text of parliament is not up to the social and ecological challenges of our time.
by implementing a dual approach (central network to be completed by 2030 and comprehensive network to be completed by 2050), it will help to better identify funding priorities and thus avoid waste of public money.
i am also pleased that parliament has also obtained ex ante studies identifying the social, economic and environmental costs and benefits of any project receiving european funds.
the participation of new states will encourage cooperation on the management of transboundary water resources, in particular in view of the increasing pressures of climate change.
given the ecological and geostrategic importance of international water resources, it is positive to move towards an expansion of this cooperation.
at a time of debate on the energy transition, this text provides the iter project with real support to enable it to move towards the development of a new source of energy that is both safe and environmentally friendly.
it is important to invest more in research and development of energy-producing technologies in harmony with environmental protection, and in particular for scientific advances in the exploitation of energy from fusion.
fusion energy, unlike nuclear fission, is a natural phenomenon which we must exploit to develop clean energy for the environment.
this is a key sector for ensuring the sustainability of reliable, sustainable energy while ensuring our energy independence and security vis-à-vis third countries.
the iter project is unique in that it is the result of cooperation between the european union, japan, russia, the united states, china, the republic of korea and india to develop fusion energy.
this energy could eventually prove to be a credible option for commercial electricity production without greenhouse gas emissions, and safer than fission energy because it does not involve a chain reaction.
i voted in favour of parliament's position on the supplementary research programme for the iter project, the international fusion energy research project.
the energy transition must immediately focus on sobriety and efficiency.
if we hope to produce infinite energy, we're going in the wrong direction.
the cost of iter is higher than the energy savings that would be achieved by the same amount invested elsewhere.
the urgency of an ecological transition requires priority investments in renewable energy and a public debate on nuclear energy.
i voted in favour of the new research and training programme of the european atomic energy community for the period 2014-2018. by defining the rules for the participation of research bodies, universities and businesses, we ensure greater coordination of research efforts between member states; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of radioactive waste.
i voted in favour of this text because i support the continuation of the euratom programme for the period 2014-2018 under the horizon 2020 research and innovation programme, in order to develop scientific advances in the field of nuclear energy.
that is why europe must remain an attractive area for researchers, particularly in the nuclear field, in order to guarantee our continent's leading position in this field and our energy independence vis-à-vis third countries.
i voted in favour of the european atomic energy community's research and training programme which aims to support the safe operation of nuclear systems, to contribute to the development of solutions for nuclear waste management, and to support the development and maintenance of nuclear competence at union level.
the text as amended by the european parliament provides for support for the european initiative for a sustainable nuclear industry.
it focuses on research into low-dose radiation and waste storage.
but this text broadly resumes the original proposal, in particular in favour of the development of 'new generation nuclear energy' and fusion at european level.
the framework imposed and the weakness of the programmes envisaged, particularly on the option of dismantling the plants, as well as the absence of reference to basic research for the cooling of waste, do not encourage support for this text.
i voted in favour of the regulation on cooperation on nuclear safety because it makes it possible to make this cooperation instrument sustainable.
the debate on nuclear energy, its usefulness and its environmental impact must not also hide the safety aspects.
i voted in favour of the measures developed by the krahmer report for the long-term and safe sustainability of the european nuclear industry.
safe and reliable european nuclear energy must be followed by effects at national level.
in the field of safety of nuclear infrastructure and nuclear waste treatment, i have advocated strict transposition of eu law into the legislation of the member states.
nuclear energy ensures security of supply at a lower cost for millions of europeans.
strengthening cooperation on nuclear safety is therefore a necessity to enable the dissemination of the know-how and knowledge needed for reliable nuclear energy for the benefit of all europeans.
the practice of stress testing in all member states and in the third countries concerned, in order to detect potential risks, also helps to promote the development of safe energy.
i supported the report by my colleague holger krahmer which aims to make the nuclear safety cooperation instrument sustainable, which funds measures to support a higher level of nuclear safety, radiation protection and the application of effective safeguards for nuclear materials in third countries.
i regret, however, that a provision has not been adopted calling for certain member states not to be relieved of their responsibilities in implementing existing legislation on safety and management of nuclear waste.
in recognition of the exceptional social, environmental, economic and financial burden of this early closure, it is appropriate, and this is the spirit of my vote, to support financially these three member states in carrying out this dismantling.
it is not, however, concerned with the dangers and the impossibility of managing the nuclear risk under acceptable conditions of safety and environmental protection.
these funds will not be spent for nothing: we have set up conditions for investment to be targeted on sectors of the future, such as research, new technologies, sustainable development and smes.
territorial cooperation helps the territories and regions to finance joint projects: a hospital, a crossborder theatre, a bilingual nursery, joint management of environmental risks.
you know what these improvements are: better involvement of civil society, simplified procedures, a minimum share for the esf, taking account of sustainable development in the objectives, but also taking account of the specificities of the outermost regions, whose cofinancing rate is maintained.
the reform will also be much more environmentally friendly, in particular thanks to the erdf, which will invest heavily in the ecological transition and less in large, unnecessary infrastructure projects.
as regards content, each of the funds brings significant innovations: the cohesion fund, with its stated environmental objectives, the erdf, whose greening is a real satisfaction for our group, with in particular the objective of combating global warming, guaranteed as a priority in each of the regions of europe.
you speak of waste when it comes to tri-localization, but is it not really a travesty to use parliament's resources for debates, the time spent, with the only result of having our institution condemned before the european court of justice and basically giving additional arguments to the eurosceptics?
strasbourg is the symbol of waste!
the european parliament's different sensibilities also reflected on the information to be provided on the impact of the investment product in terms of environmental, social and governance criteria, which are now essential elements that the retail investor should take into account when making his investment decision.
for example, the protection of our products and the environment?
the challenges posed by the necessity of embarking on a process of environmental transition, which is necessarily long, taking account of climate change, concerned with the sustainable management of agricultural and water resources, which requires new instruments, new incentive tools at the service of the working peasants in the interests of society as a whole, are also not being addressed despite the initial proposals you made, commissioner.
it misses the ecological conversion by rejecting the introduction of a crop rotation including a pulse crop.
this is a very important policy: today we are affirming our commitment to a sustainable and competitive agricultural model.
we support our farmers' commitment to environmental protection while strengthening the competitiveness of their businesses.
in this connection, it is important to remember that, in the context of trade agreements, we will not accept the entry of agricultural products which do not comply with our health, social and environmental standards on the european market.
the fact is that in a europe of 28 countries, the reality of the environment, the sociological perception of the agricultural question, the relationship with food in our different countries are different, and yet we are together in building the future.
it deprives the union of the necessary investments in environmental matters.
the galileo and egnos programmes are eu flagship projects and are part of the europe 2020 strategy and sustainable development policies.
having contributed to the preparation of this report myself, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, i welcome the modernisation, the slight greening of the rules applicable to these funds and the creation of the category of regions in transition (financial benefit to 10 french regions, including auvergne and limousin).
the regional funds for 2014-2020 will make it possible to invest massively in the energy transition, against exclusion and poverty.
instead, we must get out of austerity and revive activity through ecological planning.
over the period 2014-2020, priority erdf investments will have to focus on four particularly key thematic objectives: research and innovation (objective 1), access to information and communication technologies (objective 2), competitiveness of smes (objective 3), and energy efficiency and the shift towards a low-carbon economy (objective 4).
i am in favour of extending the scope of support to productive investment, regardless of the size of the company, and of investments in small infrastructure for cultural and sustainable tourism.
as it stands, and for the period 2014 - 2020, the erdf will enable european territories to invest massively in the energy transition.
the european parliament has easily approved the new erdf regulation which will enable french regions to finance projects in areas as diverse as enterprise competitiveness, information and communication technologies, research, sustainable tourism, culture, energy efficiency, etc.
the commission has proposed a new regulation on the european regional development fund (erdf) as an integral part of the legal framework of cohesion policy for the multiannual programming period 2014-2020. the scope of erdf support will thus be extended to productive investment, research and innovation infrastructure, small cultural and sustainable tourism infrastructure and networking.
they mainly cover energy efficiency and renewable energy, research and innovation, support for smes and productive investments.
direct aid for investment in enterprises (in particular smes), infrastructure linked in particular to research and innovation, telecommunications, the environment, energy and transport, and financial instruments for local development are all measures eligible for funding from this fund.
in latvia, the erdf has provided substantial support for the establishment of a business environment and the strengthening of competitiveness (especially of small and medium-sized enterprises), the construction or reconstruction of transport, telecommunications and energy networks, environmental protection, preservation of cultural heritage, etc.
particular emphasis will be placed on sustainable urban development (at least 5%).
parliament also lifted the ban on investments in infrastructure providing basic services in the fields of environment, transport and ict.
for the next seven years, erdf resources should be concentrated on a more limited number of objectives (focusing in particular on the sustainability of projects).
by concentrating co-financing on a limited number of policy areas, the erdf is being replaced in its primary role as a facilitator of projects for economic development, social inclusion, environmental protection and the energy and digital transition.
finally, the emphasis on the urban dimension calls for an ambitious policy to improve the interconnection between the major economic areas, to ensure service to all neighbourhoods and to instill sustainability in urban renewal.
over the period 2014-2020, european territorial cooperation funding will still be divided into three axes (cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation) but will now be concentrated on the four main themes of the european regional development fund (erdf): research and innovation (objective 1), access to information and communication technologies (objective 2), competitiveness of smes (objective 3), and energy efficiency and the shift towards a low-carbon economy (objective 4).
the cohesion fund is aimed at member states whose gross national income (gni) per capita is less than 90% of the average gni per capita in the european union and offers funding primarily for improving infrastructure and environmental policies, which is essential for these countries.
i voted in favour of this report because the agreement reached on the cohesion funds enshrines an important change, which parliament wanted: companies will be able to receive support for energy efficiency and renewable energy projects, as it was agreed that non-smes will also be able to receive support.
in addition, special attention was paid to environmental issues.
in addition to support for energy efficiency and renewable energy in the housing sector, and district heating and cogeneration, the waste and water sectors have been the subject of important agreement, according to which investments in these sectors will be possible not only to meet the obligations arising from the union's environmental acquis but also to go beyond and meet the needs identified by member states.
i think it is particularly appropriate that this fund should focus on the transport and environment sectors.
i therefore support the cohesion fund's objective of contributing to investments in the transeuropean transport network, as well as in low-carbon transport systems and urban transport.
the establishment of efficient and environmentally friendly transport networks will then promote sustainable development in our regions.
i voted in favour of the report by my colleague victor bostinaru, which sets out the rules applicable to the cohesion funds for the period 2014-2020. compared to the current period, the scope of assistance has been extended to include support for integrated actions for sustainable urban development (energy efficiency, energy-efficient heating, etc.)
reflecting the particular attention paid to environmental issues, particularly in priority investments.
the fund will focus on projects that support the transition to a low greenhouse gas emission economy, climate change adaptation, environmental protection and energy efficiency, and the promotion of sustainable transport.
the aim of this amendment to the legislation is to participate in territorial cooperation, particularly in the fields of transport and energy and water supply.
the package of legislative reports on the common agricultural policy (cap) for the period 2014-2020 being in line with my objectives of a strong agricultural policy, remunerative for farmers (in particular in the auvergne, centre and limousin regions) allowing the development of quality products, safe for the health of european citizens and finally an agricultural policy compatible with environmental and climate issues, i voted for each of these reports.
the principles of cross compliance set out in the la via report should promote environmental protection without hampering the work of farmers.
it helps to support our farmers' commitment to environmental protection and at the same time strengthens the competitiveness of their businesses.
we will not accept the entry onto the european market of agricultural products which do not meet our health, social and environmental standards.
i voted in favour of this text, which deals with the financing, management and monitoring of the common agricultural policy for the period 2014-2020, because in view of the challenges posed by the european objectives of food security, environmental protection and territorial development, it is essential to ensure the effectiveness of this policy with appropriate budgetary resources.
farmers will have specific and verifiable obligations in respect of the environment, which will be conditional on the payment of certain aid, in order to ensure green and sustainable agriculture in the european union.
agriculture is today at the crossroads of major challenges: climate, energy, food.
it also reinforces the necessary move towards agri-environmental measures and sets out measures to revitalise rural areas and develop more sustainable agriculture.
this information could provide information on the contribution of the fund to an environmental or social project.
the package of legislative reports on the common agricultural policy (cap) for the period 2014-2020 being in line with my objectives of a strong agricultural policy, remunerative for farmers (in particular in the auvergne, centre and limousin regions) allowing the development of quality products, safe for the health of european citizens and finally an agricultural policy compatible with environmental and climate issues, i voted for each of these reports.
the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) will finance concrete projects in rural areas, in particular in the following 6 priority areas: knowledge transfer and innovation; strengthening competitiveness and sustainable forest management; promoting risk organisation and management; restoring, protecting and strengthening ecosystems; efficient use of resources; social inclusion, poverty reduction and economic development in rural areas.
the text adopted allows us to reaffirm our commitment to a sustainable and competitive agricultural model.
we support our farmers' commitment to environmental protection while strengthening the competitiveness of their businesses.
our objective in voting for this text is clear: dynamic and sustainable rural areas, capable of meeting the needs of europeans and of competing internationally.
thematic sub-programmes could also be developed, with particular attention to issues such as young farmers, biodiversity and innovation.
- i am voting in favour of the report by mr luis manuel capoulas santos on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on support for rural development by the eafrd as it contributes to improving the competitiveness of the agricultural and forestry sector, the environment and the landscape, as well as the quality of life in rural areas and the diversification of the rural economy.
the proposal also contains very interesting approaches to tackling the eu's environmental policy challenges by creating and strengthening incentives for more sustainable agriculture.
the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) aims to address environmental challenges by promoting more sustainable agriculture and rural development.
i decided to vote in favour of this report because of the laudable ambitions it sets out in terms of sustainable agriculture and rural development, but also so that agricultural operators in the ors and octs will be able to continue the implementation of programmes in these areas from the beginning of 2014.
in writing.
this will include measures to enhance competitiveness and sustainable forest management, risk management and the efficient use of resources.
through the financial support of the eafrd, farmers, herders and local elected representatives find valuable support for projects aimed at adaptation to climate change, mitigation of the effects of natural constraints and energy and digital transition of farms and agricultural territories.
the package of legislative reports on the common agricultural policy (cap) for the period 2014-2020 being in line with my objectives of a strong agricultural policy, remunerative for farmers (in particular in the auvergne, centre and limousin regions) allowing the development of quality products, safe for the health of european citizens and finally an agricultural policy compatible with environmental and climate issues, i voted for each of these reports.
it promotes the emergence of an environmentally friendly agriculture, concerned with product quality, traceability and food safety and with the carbon footprint.
the new cap is designed to protect the environment.
from now on, 30% of direct payments will be linked to sustainable practices, such as crop diversification or the maintenance of permanent pastures.
these measures will ensure the sustainable competitiveness of european agriculture on the world stage and will improve food security.
i voted in favour of this new, fairer and more sustainable common organisation of the market.
the package of legislative reports on the common agricultural policy (cap) for the period 2014-2020 being in line with my objectives of a strong agricultural policy, remunerative for farmers (in particular in the auvergne, centre and limousin regions) allowing the development of quality products, safe for the health of european citizens and finally an agricultural policy compatible with environmental and climate issues, i voted for each of these reports.
i particularly welcome the promotion of sustainable practices, the financial support available to young farmers who are starting out, and the systems of degressivity and capping of aid.
i voted in favour of this report because the text adopted allows us to reaffirm our commitment to a sustainable and competitive agricultural model.
we support our farmers' commitment to environmental protection while strengthening the competitiveness of their businesses.
preserving ecosystems in the long term while ensuring the sustainable competitiveness of agriculture is how food security will be guaranteed.
one of the developments in the new cap is the 'greening' of the cap, which links part of the subsidies to environmental protection.
i welcome the new cap, which has been developed thanks to the intensive efforts of our colleagues to strike a balance between, on the one hand, the defence of an activity sector essential to the life of all and, on the other hand, the need to preserve the environment in which this activity is carried out.
in the end, this is a great result: a cap that is fairer between countries, regions, farmers and production, taking better account of the wealth of each; a greener cap that allows for a shift towards more sustainable production models; a cap that will give more support to young farmers; a cap that will make the transition to a more sustainable production model possible; a cap that will make the transition to a more sustainable production model possible; a cap that will make the transition to a more sustainable production model possible; a cap that will make the transition to a more sustainable production model possible; a cap that will make the transition to a more sustainable production model possible; a cap that will make the transition to a more sustainable production model possible; a cap that will make the transition to a more sustainable production model possible.
i have tabled amendments to push these proposals towards a more humane agriculture: protecting the incomes of small farmers; limiting the funds paid to farms to eur 100 000; maintaining a strong ecological conditionality.
i voted in favour of the text on direct payments, which shows a positive evolution in the role of the farmer who is no longer paid only for production but also for the environmental public goods he delivers, i.e.
the maintenance of permanent grasslands, the diversification of crops, the maintenance of hedges, trees, hedgerows, biotopes, useful for the preservation of biodiversity.
moreover, 'greening' (environmental conditions for granting direct aid) is far from sufficient to encourage a genuine ecological transition in agriculture.
the new common agricultural policy aims to combine several key priorities: food security, the competitiveness and quality of european agriculture, environmental protection and the fair distribution of european funds.
finally, the cap will be greener: 30% of direct payments will be conditional on compulsory greening measures, such as crop diversification, the maintenance of permanent grasslands or the creation of 'areas of ecological interest'.
agriculture is today at the crossroads of major challenges: climate, energy, food.
it also reinforces the necessary move towards agri-environmental measures and sets out measures to revitalise rural areas and develop more sustainable agriculture.
the agreement also responds to the demand for a more environmentally friendly cap, while ensuring the economic viability of the agricultural sector: 30% of direct aids will be conditional on compliance with certain ecological practices.
the package of legislative reports on the common agricultural policy (cap) for the period 2014-2020 being in line with my objectives of a strong agricultural policy, remunerative for farmers (in particular in the auvergne, centre and limousin regions) allowing the development of quality products, safe for the health of european citizens and finally an agricultural policy compatible with environmental and climate issues, i voted for each of these reports.
i voted in favour of this report because the text adopted allows us to reaffirm our commitment to a sustainable and competitive agricultural model
in writing.
by ensuring the sustainable exploitation of tuna resources, this agreement respects international conventions and satisfies both parties - the european union and kiribati.
i support the conclusion of a fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and kiribati: the first beneficiaries of such an agreement are european fishermen, and i welcome the fact that it respects our ambitions for sustainable fisheries.
the concerns about tuna fishing will need to be given special attention, but i am hopeful that the european union and kiribati will manage to have a partnership that is both sustainable and mutually beneficial.
participatory ecological planning work will have to be carried out.
for the time being, the agreements between the european union and the producing countries must at least be of a high environmental and social standard.
while economically beneficial for the european union, this agreement is very damaging for the sustainable management of fisheries resources in the pacific ocean and for the fishing capacity of the territories in the area.
it is important that the european union is present in the pacific region and, through this protocol, promotes the establishment of responsible and sustainable fisheries.
i am not hiding my surprise at the fact that french meps who are both environmentalists and centrists voted against the siege of strasbourg in order to reduce its environmental impact.
moreover, this text has no legal significance: what a waste of time and energy for all the members of this assembly!
the waste of politics is no longer acceptable, all the more so in the face of public opinion which is demanding from its representative class an attitude conscious of the reality of the crisis in which it lives.
we therefore strongly urge once again that the waste of the european parliament's two seats be stopped and that the only place of work be the belgian capital.
the usual opponents of the parliament's seat in strasbourg have shown intellectual dishonesty by using incorrect, outdated and controversial figures on costs and carbon balance to denigrate strasbourg.
− mr president, i am pleased to have the opportunity to participate in this important debate on horizon 2020. research and innovation are at the heart of our policies to bring europe back to a path of growth and sustainable development.
although we are beginning to emerge from the worst of the economic crisis, significant challenges in a wide range of areas such as health, transport and energy lie ahead.
research in these areas aims to create innovative solutions which will enhance the quality of life in europe, as well as the sustainability of our economic model and of the entire planet.
it will help deliver on innovation which will be instrumental in securing sustainable growth and in creating new jobs.
let me first of all thank the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) and the 11 parliamentary committees that together contributed to this excellent result.
the industrial renewal that we all call for in this house and throughout europe requires support for the key sectors that already exist, but it must also be based on the emergence of new technologies which are - as we know - creators of products with high added value but also energy-efficient.
more than 90% of the energy consumed by transport comes from oil, a limited resource that is harmful to the environment.
by providing €5 billion for research into non-fossil fuel energy, horizon 2020 is meeting this challenge and i welcome it.
it is welcome that the european parliament has added environmental protection to the 'society issues' of the horizon 2020 programme.
the amendments by the greens/alde/s&d coalition will see at least 85% of energy funding (€4.5 billion) allocated to renewable energy and energy efficiency.
- madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, i would like to thank you for your communication of 24 july 2013, mr commissioner, and thank you, mr minister of defence, for your support for a defence industrial policy, in particular on what we have proposed, namely standardisation and certification to combat market fragmentation.
of course, i could not present all the proposals of the committee on industry, research and energy in one minute, and it is clear from its intervention that small and mediumsized enterprises must be integrated into the whole network of our industries.
i am very grateful to you for this question, because it is a very important point, and i did not have time to stress it in a minute, which the committee on industry, research and energy supports.
as you know, both governments, to my knowledge - since this has been the basis for the proposals that the committee on industry, research and energy has been able to make - are very satisfied with it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating and voting this morning on the life programme, the only programme in the european union which funds actions to protect the environment.
climate change is a growing threat, and the erosion of biodiversity is also growing.
in this context, the financing of environmental policies and local actions is of course crucial.
this is all the more so as, in this period of budgetary austerity and the european union's loss of dynamism, the preservation of biodiversity requires investments that will have immediate, but also long-term, positive effects for all european citizens.
first of all, we welcome the regionalisation of the selection of projects, which will make it possible to finance them more efficiently, without national discrimination, contributing to european consistency in the strategy for preserving the environment, while maintaining a real diversity of action in the territory that constitutes the european mosaic.
local actors now have the expertise and know-how on which the success of our policies for the conservation of biodiversity and the environment depends.
finally, the idea of an integrated project, which should allow us to cross-finance with other european funds, particularly regional funds, would - i hope - make it possible to take biodiversity more fully into account in all the policies, signals and ambitions of the european union.
it is certainly too little, but it is fundamental for all european environmental policies.
since 1992, life has been a nursery for innovative experiences, a vehicle for knowledge and environmental awareness.
it improves the implementation of european environmental legislation.
the new programme is more effective with integrated projects and more adapted financial rules, but also more in line with the environmental challenges of our time (loss of biodiversity, climate change, cross-border aspects).
this is an increase of 15% compared to the previous period 2007-2013. i am pleased to see that european funding is focused on smes, whose potential for innovation and development is crucial to ensuring sustainable growth in the european union.
we have identified three pillars for this policy: scientific excellence, industrial leadership in key technologies such as nanotechnology or biotechnology, and societal challenges in key areas such as food security, sustainable agriculture and energy.
of course, science is much better off in a cooperative environment.
the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) has been developing partnerships between the worlds of research, education and entrepreneurship since 2010. the work of the rapporteur, marisa matias, from the portuguese bloc, is geared towards the challenges of tomorrow, in particular the ecosocialist question of the sustainable use of the seas, water and maritime issues.
i supported the report by my colleague philippe lamberts, who is preparing the institute for innovation and technology, which brings together higher education institutions, research centres and companies of excellence, for the period 2014-2020. it will play a key role in this by combining cutting-edge research, education and innovation through the knowledge and innovation communities, which will increase by 6 by 2018 in a variety of areas: raw materials, healthy living and active ageing, food for the future, smart and sustainable development, etc.
i voted in favour of this text because i believe that we need to strengthen the competitiveness and sustainable development of eu enterprises, particularly in the tourism sector, as well as to encourage an entrepreneurial culture and to promote the creation and growth of smes.
the programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and smes (cosme) is a new programme with two objectives: to strengthen the competitiveness and sustainable development of enterprises in the union, particularly in the tourism sector, and to encourage an entrepreneurial culture and to promote the creation and growth of smes.
the activities funded by the cosme programme are: improving the conditions for the competitiveness and sustainability of enterprises; strengthening entrepreneurship (particularly among young people); improving access to finance for smes; and improving market access for smes both in the eu and globally.
this policy is an essential link in european policy as it will facilitate access to finance for smes, create an environment favourable to business creation and growth, encourage entrepreneurship in europe and strengthen the sustainable competitiveness of european companies and help smes to operate outside their home countries and facilitate their access to markets.
i voted for the life programme for the environment and climate action.
life is the european union's main funding mechanism in the field of the environment.
the priorities of the new programme include nature and biodiversity, energy efficiency and climate change mitigation and adaptation.
i voted in favour of the haug report establishing the environment and climate action programme (life).
through this programme, the european union is establishing a mechanism to support european projects promoting biodiversity, energy efficiency and adaptation to climate change.
this report balances the economic development of european enterprises with the protection of the environment.
i welcome the compromise reached for the life programme 2014-2010. by voting for a budget of 3.4 billion, an increase of 50%, the european parliament recognises the need for europe to support more environmental projects.
with the adoption of this text, i welcome the importance which the european union attaches to environmental issues and the fight against climate change.
i particularly welcome the opening up of the life programme to the whole of europe's overseas countries and territories, to protect these areas which are real reservoirs of biodiversity.
the text specifically encourages synergies between european programmes and funding to ensure maximum impact for biodiversity and the environment.
- i voted in favour of this text because i believe that integrating environmental and climate action objectives into all the eu's main instruments and actions is a strategy relevant to the eu's environmental policy.
i voted in favour of the adoption of the environment and climate action programme (life), which will have a budget of €3.457 billion, or 0.3% of the eu budget, and will make it possible to change the way projects are selected for this programme, so that the quality of proposals is better taken into account.
this strengthened programme will better equip public authorities to address the challenges of climate change and improve resource efficiency.
i voted in favour of the report by my colleague jutta haug which renews the life programme for the period 2014-2020. the programme is the european union's main funding mechanism in the field of the environment.
the new programme for 2014-2020 focuses on nature and biodiversity, energy efficiency and climate change mitigation and adaptation.
with this programme (life), the need to achieve tangible results in environmental protection and climate change mitigation has been raised once again.
the european parliament has renewed the budget for the life programme for the environment and climate action, which covers the period 2014-2020. the programme has been promoting investment in environmental and climate projects for over 20 years and has notably funded the european network of nature protection areas natura 2000. i voted in favour of this new version of life, which aims to make eu environmental policy more effective and better geared towards climate action.
the establishment of multiannual work programmes will make it possible to use the funds more targetedly, giving priority to actions related to the protection of biodiversity, the rational use of resources and environmental information.
we have been able to introduce into the new life programme the possibility of setting up 'integrated projects' which will make it possible to introduce environmental protection and the fight against global warming into other policies, in particular by mobilising other european or national sources of funding.
life has been one of the most successful eu programmes in addressing environmental and climate-related challenges.
this part is particularly weak in relation to the challenges and opportunities of the transition to a biodiversity-rich, resource-efficient and low-carbon society.
this text proposes a development on the margins of european environmental policy, whereas a real revolution in the field is needed.
it does not abandon the liberal illusion, but persists in this course by not proposing any major policy of ecological bifurcation of our ways of life and production.
it is also satisfied with the budgetary surpluses which the european commission is willing to allocate to environmental matters.
the life programme is an instrument to address the environmental and climate challenges.
i consider this amount to be a flagrant lack of ambition on the part of the eu to tackle the real problems faced in terms of biodiversity erosion and climate change.
the ors are almost excluded from this programme and participate only in a very small way, although they are the hubs of european biodiversity.
i voted in favour of the new european environment programme 'life' with a budget of €3.46 billion for the next 7 years.
the priorities of the new life programme are many and include nature and biodiversity, energy efficiency and climate change mitigation and adaptation.
this new opportunity is part of the continuity of my parliamentary action which led to the creation in 2011 and for 3 years of a preparatory action entitled best, to finance actions to protect biodiversity and enhance ecosystem services in overseas regions and communities.
overseas holds more than 80% of europe's biodiversity, so it was necessary for europe to protect and enhance this wealth under the new life programme.
since 1992, the european funding programme life has supported many good environmental protection initiatives.
i am thinking, for example, of the eco-camps project in aquitaine, which is concerned with the eco-design of buildings in campsites, the aware project to reduce water pollution in languedoc-roussillon, or the reclionbat project, which is concerned with the construction of an innovative heavy metal recycling plant in the midi-pyrénées region, to mention only my constituency.
at the time of the renewal of the european funding programmes for 2014-2020, i gave my full support to this new life+ programme, which shows the persistence of european ambition in the field of the environment.
this ambition is first manifested at the quantitative level, since a significant increase in the budget is proposed, in favour of the opening of a sub-programme "climate action".
the programme also creates new measures such as the creation of 'integrated projects', which aim to implement environmental strategies on a wider territorial scale and to mobilise other european, national or private funds.
the success of these small initiatives should not make us forget the need to set up a large environmental project at european level.
i voted in favour of the new european programme for financing environmental projects, the famous life programme.
life was set up in 1992 to finance environmental projects and to combat climate change.
they alone represent 85% of biodiversity in europe and will benefit from these funds.
i am glad that the commitments made continue to give the environment the importance it deserves.
the development of europe's environmental wealth cannot be achieved without adequate funding.
i voted in favour of the european life programme, a budgetary programme for projects in the environmental and climate fields.
the european parliament's battle against the council will allow more projects to be launched with eu support to safeguard biodiversity and protect nature.
the selection will be based on their quality and thus their potential to achieve environmental and climate objectives.
the programme also introduces a provision on integrated projects aimed at improving and strengthening the integration of environmental and climate objectives into other eu policies.
they will be able to receive other european funding in the context of the application of european environmental legislation.
despite this paltry funding in the face of climate issues and the urgency of taking action against certain pollutants (water, air), this is a step in the right direction, which is not so common today.
this could be an opportunity to affirm an objective of combating fiscal, social and environmental dumping and a serious public programme for the management of goods entering the union by sea.
this resolution sets out a state of play of the doha agenda in preparation for the 9th wto ministerial conference in december 2013. as usual, the liberal doxa is working at full speed - for example: 'the liberalization of trade is an important instrument to ensure sustainable economic growth and development'.
i support the overall view taken in this text that supporting competitiveness and employment is not only about creating a favourable regulatory environment, but also about developing the entrepreneurial spirit of europeans, starting from school age.
the european parliament adopted a resolution to encourage entrepreneurship in europe until 2020. we have expressed our concern at the declining number of european union citizens setting up their own businesses in the current climate of economic uncertainty.
the report by maria eleni koppa gives the armed forces a central role in securing energy supply routes and trade routes and advocates further militarisation of the eu by calling for increased military missions and capabilities under the common security and defence policy, as well as 'permanent rapid reaction combat forces' (i.e.
i cannot support a mercantilist and warmongering view of defence which gives the armed forces a central role in securing energy supply routes and trade routes.
the current climate of violence reflects a political life that has not yet settled its past.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i regret that it took this pharaonic and expensive world cup project, with its disastrous environmental impact, to admit that forced labour is a reality both in qatar and in other countries in the region.
one of the main objectives of this policy is to achieve biomass levels beyond those that can produce maximum sustainable yield by 2015. we have also approved the obligation to land all catches.
we want measures for fisheries that are environmentally, economically and socially sustainable.
we have had a very heated debate on resource, on rmd, on waste, on ecological aspects, and we have ended up with - i think - some good results.
the cmo has partly answered these questions by encouraging the creation of a european eco-label and imposing identical marketing standards on european fishermen and imports, but many issues remain, including the control of world fisheries and the social and environmental rules applied by non-union vessels.
firstly, to protect vulnerable stocks; secondly, to ensure that all species in the deep sea can regenerate themselves in a sustainable way; thirdly, to preserve jobs in the fishing sector.
the partial ban on trawling and the sanctioning of an ecological footprint in 90% of the international waters of the north-east atlantic, the setting of quotas for all species, which are therefore more stringent than the cfp, and the mapping of vulnerable areas within two years have given us the means to achieve the environmental objectives we have set ourselves.
madam president, i am one of those who believe that mr arsenis' compromise provides the means to preserve the environment, but also economic activity and hence jobs.
this agreement is sustainable, the fishing zones have been modified to meet morocco's requirements and the opinions of the scientists of the moroccan research institute have been taken into account.
secondly, that sustainability is ensured since only surplus fish will be fished.
the trivialization of populist, discriminatory and racist discourses is not stopped and we still see too often, as in my member state for example, evacuations without decent and sustainable solutions to housing being proposed, which creates humanitarian and even health situations that become absolutely catastrophic.
madam president, it is true that these natural disasters are increasing all over the world and that climate change will only increase the risks in the years to come.
in a context marked by the arab spring and the urgent need for economic development in the countries of the southern mediterranean, this agreement aims to support moroccans, and in particular fishermen, while respecting the eu's sustainability criteria.
european programmes will therefore help the country to establish a sustainable and competitive fishery.
this proposal is only a prerequisite for the establishment of a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy with the kingdom of morocco.
the three main reasons (ecological: poor state of stocks; economic: poor profitability; geopolitical: access to water and resources of western sahara) that had caused the rejection of this agreement in 2011 still exist.
beyond the issue of western sahara, the approved agreement still raises the same concerns about its dubious profitability and the sustainability of fisheries.
such a benefit cannot be overlooked, especially since environmental criteria are also required.
the new partnership, on the other hand, has made significant progress in environmental, economic and financial terms.
in addition, the protocol raises concerns about the sustainability of fisheries.
our moroccan friends are privileged partners of europe and it was incomprehensible that some would try to block this agreement, which is mutually beneficial and meets all the conditions we had set: the sustainability of fishing activities and real economic and social benefits for the local populations.
it was important to vote to make these ratifications possible, because this ilo convention, the international labour organization, is a vital instrument for the protection of workers, the environment and society from chemical-related harm.
i voted in favour of this report because convention no 170 is an important instrument for the protection of workers, the environment and society as a whole.
while promoting the health and safety of workers, the text also aims to be adapted to society as a whole in the interests of environmental protection.
the convention is an important instrument for the protection of workers, the environment and society.
the international labour organisation (ilo) convention on the safety of chemicals at work (convention no 170) is an important instrument for strengthening the protection of workers, the environment and, more broadly, society as a whole.
by voting in favour, i express my willingness to extend this protocol until 2015. with this extension we intend to further increase the climate of mutual trust, which will lead to greater economic integration between the united states and the european union, also promoting the definition of the ongoing negotiations for the transatlantic trade and development partnership (ttip).
this agreement will facilitate sustainable development in côte d'ivoire by aiming at responsible management of fisheries resources.
this proposal is only a prerequisite for the establishment of a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy between the union and côte d'ivoire.
the agreement sets out the fishing opportunities and financial compensation for developing a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the ivorian fishing zone.
while economically beneficial to both parties, this agreement is very damaging to the sustainable management of fisheries resources and to the fishing capacity of the territories in the area.
i welcome the adoption of the neynsky report mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund for 875 workers made redundant in the solar energy production sector in germany.
i voted in favour of this text which aims to help germany in the face of the crisis in the photovoltaic energy sector.
the factories specialising in this energy, established in europe and more specifically in germany, face strong asian competition from taiwan and china.
the competitiveness of europe and the ability to maintain a certain level of production in a high value-added sector such as renewable energy are at stake.
moreover, this energy is part of the green growth logic of the european union, which is commendable.
the european solar energy sector is dependent on structural changes in world trade in this field.
i welcome the adoption of the kozłowski report mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund to a total of eur 6 364 643 to support workers made redundant in the wind energy production sector in denmark.
the aim was also to deepen our cooperation in several sectors (environment, climate, justice and home affairs, science and technology, education and training) and to negotiate a strategic partnership agreement (spa) to strengthen our economic, political and cultural relations.
the growth potential of this sector must therefore be unlocked by putting it at the service of the telecommunications, transport, environment and agriculture sectors.
we must build a european public hub for scientific, industrial and military space and make the european space agency sustainable, while guaranteeing its missions of public and scientific utility.
parliament and the council reached consensus on maximum sustainable yield (msy), quota management and the principle of no-discharge.
i voted in favour of this new version of the cfp, which should therefore enter into force on 1 january 2014, as it will make the eu one of the world's leading models for sustainable fisheries.
i voted against the amendment in order to support the recommendations for second reading because the report makes it possible to: ensure environmentally, socially and economically sustainable fisheries and aquaculture; apply the precautionary approach to fisheries to achieve biomass levels above those achieving maximum sustainable yield; eliminate discharges into the sea by means of the landing obligation; adapt fishing capacity to fishing opportunities; continue to guarantee a fair standard of living for those who depend on fishing; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aquaculture sector is not left behind.
the new common fisheries policy provides a structural framework for environmentally, economically and socially sustainable fisheries.
with this text, we are taking an important step towards avoiding overfishing by encouraging controlled and sustainable fisheries.
in this respect, i support the general objective of the proposal to ensure that fishing and aquaculture activities create long-term sustainable environmental conditions that contribute to food security.
i voted in favour of the recommendation by my colleague ulrike rodust, which amends the common fisheries policy by introducing measures to make it more sustainable.
this is achieved by requiring vessels to retain all quota fish caught instead of discarding the least profitable species, by establishing protected areas because of their sensitive ecosystem and by establishing maximum sustainable ceilings to ensure the recovery of fish stocks.
while fishermen have already made a lot of efforts to limit overfishing, i believe that these rules are not flexible enough and that we need to give the sector more time to adapt to environmental requirements.
the reform adopted provides for a ban on discards at sea by 2019 (despite exemptions) and for a european fisheries sustainability policy.
the union will have to create protected areas for their biological sensitivity, and fishing levels must not threaten the reproduction of stocks (maximum sustainable yield).
i voted in favour of the report on the common fisheries policy which amends many cfp rules such as provisions to combat overfishing and the fact that the sustainability principle will apply to european vessels fishing outside eu waters.
after long and difficult negotiations, the objectives of the cfp are now clearly defined and reflect the values of the european union: the establishment of sustainable management and a stronger framework for fisheries practice in eu waters for the 28 member states.
this reform will increase the traceability of fishery products and ensure the sustainable use of marine resources by significantly reducing waste.
this report enables the union's trade potential to be strengthened and sustainable production practices to be supported through the increased role of producer organisations.
in line with the new fisheries policy, this report sets out the conditions for efficient and innovative marketing, while at the same time enabling a sustainable and competitive european fisheries.
in addition, these policies need to be given a new impetus in order to support the fisheries sector towards a sustainable activity linked to environmental constraints.
this will help to preserve cold-water corals and sponges, which are indicative of a living ecosystem that we need to preserve.
the compromise reached by the committee on fisheries does not seem satisfactory to me, given the vulnerability of this ecosystem.
i regret that it will take four years for the commission to carry out an assessment of the environmental impact of this activity.
it should be borne in mind that since 2008, measures have been put in place at european level for the conservation of deep-water species that have allowed the achievement of the maximum sustainable yield for three of the main commercial deep-water species.
deep-sea fishing is a practice whose consequences on a poorly known and fragile ecosystem are very damaging for many vulnerable species.
the fisheries sector survives only with the help of substantial subsidies and aid, in clear contradiction to the eu's other environmental protection policies.
the european parliament has just rejected a historic measure: the ban on deep-sea trawling, despite the considerable destruction of the marine environment caused by this fishing technique.
the amendment tabled by the green/efa group to reinstate this ban on deep-sea trawling was rejected by 342 votes to 326. the socialists and the ump have taken up indefensible positions which run counter to the common will of the european citizens (more than 750 000 citizens called for this measure) and have thus made possible the 'victory' of industrial fishing which is destructive for the environment and for employment.
the european parliament, however, opted for a common fisheries policy based on sustainability criteria last february.
i would stress that several thousand jobs are at stake here and that if we deprive our european fishermen of these opportunities, we would have to import even more to meet our food needs, which would seriously jeopardise our food independence and lead us to import products from countries whose environmental and social standards are not as respectful of people and ecosystems as those defined by this compromise.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the latter measure will allow accurate data to be collected to assess the impact of this fishery on the environment and to decide on the future of deep-sea fishing in four years' time based on these results.
the amendment i supported, co-signed by my group and supported by many environmental organisations, proposed a ban on 'bottom trawls or bottom trawls at a depth of more than 600 metres' within two years.
we had to maintain a balance between economic activities and environmental and resource conservation.
in addition, european funding will be available for deep-sea fishermen wishing to convert to sustainable fishing.
we had to meet the challenge of deep-sea fishing, reconciling what seemed irreconcilable: ecological, social and economic requirements.
the european parliament adopted a draft regulation on deep-sea fishing which is a compromise between ecological, social and economic requirements.
the aim is to minimise human losses as well as environmental and material losses.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the environment.
the eu must become more involved in the management of international crises, including environmental crises.
the framework of the new mechanism therefore covers these three periods of civil protection, and will cover not only the population but also the environment and cultural heritage.
the types of disasters for which this programme can be mobilised are also broadened in the proposal, since it will deal with acts of terrorism, technological, radioactive and environmental disasters, water pollution and health emergencies, whether within the union or outside.
it is important that the eu has an effective tool to deal with environmental phenomena such as floods or earthquakes.
the economic environment has led to a loss of confidence in the current banking system by many consumers and has seen an increase in seizures and defaults.
in concrete terms, bangladesh should not be seen as a mere supplier of raw materials and consideration should be given to how the country could benefit from sustainable economic development, including decent working conditions and eu relations contributing to poverty eradication in the country.
the european carbon market has been paralysed for many months by both the economic crisis and a structural surplus of allowances compared to the reality of emissions.
in view of this situation, i have supported this backloading measure from the beginning of the legislative process, because it will allow a certain rebalancing of supply and demand on this market (for artificial gas, which was created to achieve a political objective) and thus save the climate policy of the european union.
this is a first step towards a more thorough reform of the european carbon market and the setting of targets for 2030.
in writing.
by reaffirming our support for the text voted last july on 'backloading', we are enabling the european commission to make progress on the issue of the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme (ges).
if the eu is to maintain the leadership it sometimes has on climate change issues and give itself the means to really steer development towards a low-carbon economy, it must now accelerate the long-term reform of the system.
i voted against the possibility for the european commission to take a share quota on the co2 trading market, which is an opportunity to reduce europe's carbon footprint at a lower cost.
above all, the increase in carbon prices targeted by the commission through a short-term intervention on the ems (backloading), will lead to an increase in energy prices in europe.
this increase would be contrary to the strategy adopted by competing countries, such as the united states, which are benefiting from a strong re-industrialization movement brought about in particular by a reduction in the cost of energy.
the european union must not contribute to raising the price of energy in times of crisis.
the aim is to ensure a gradual reduction in greenhouse gas emissions within the union.
the report as adopted ensures greater flexibility in the market for polluting rights and allows for a slight increase in the price of greenhouse gases per tonne.
however, this measured increase in the price of greenhouse gas will not be an obstacle to the competitiveness of european industry.
this is a balanced report, it will not help to slow down industrial activity but will help to combat air pollution.
globally, tackling the effects of climate change is probably one of the biggest challenges of all time.
since the 1990s, the european union has taken bold steps in this regard, including the establishment of a carbon market to limit emissions from the most polluting industries.
in addition to the deteriorating economic environment, the lack of visibility into the 2030 and 2040 constraint and the weak perception by market participants of the political will to support the market today and in the longer term have a strong impact on carbon prices.
the postponement of the auctioning of 900 million tonnes of carbon allowances, is a first emergency measure.
but beyond that, we will need ambitious and lasting reform of the climate change system.
as the amendment is designed to modernise the current directive on greenhouse gas emission allowance trading, i can only welcome this willingness.
the european union therefore wishes to continue its efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and thus minimise their impact on the environment and climate, which can only be beneficial for future generations of citizens.
the increase in the price of carbon will have an impact on energy prices, increasing the risks of offshoring.
if we move production elsewhere, our most energy-intensive industries would no longer be subject to european standards.
we must instead lay the foundations for a clear, coherent and competitive energy policy that supports industrial growth.
i supported this report in order to improve the current european carbon trading system which has failed to do this, in particular by bringing down the price of a tonne of carbon from around €30 to €3.
but with the crisis, industrial production fell, and so did the emissions of manufacturers.
the weakened ets risked the emergence of new national measures (taxes and regulations) which, unlike the current policy of creating an internal energy market, would fragment it.
that is why i support this proposal to temporarily withdraw 900 million co2 allowances from the market in order to stabilise and raise the price of a tonne of carbon to stimulate investment and innovation in low-carbon technologies.
on tuesday 10 december, the european parliament adopted a text authorising the european commission to withdraw emission allowances from the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading market.
the european commission justified this withdrawal by the fall in the price of co2 per tonne which was caused by the reduction in emissions of this greenhouse gas.
i voted against this because imposing new constraints on companies and artificially raising the price of emission allowances does not seem to me to be useful in achieving our environmental objectives.
the current emissions trading system has proven its effectiveness in combating climate change.
in addition, this price increase could have a negative effect on our economy by increasing the overall cost of energy.
i personally voted against this text because i cannot believe that it is a good idea to impose a measure in a time of crisis which increases the production costs of our companies by artificially raising the price of energy.
the environmental issue is of course a major concern, but we have to adapt to the economic realities we are living in at the moment.
it is better to wait for the economic recovery to hope for results from the greenhouse gas emission quota system.
the european union's emissions trading system (eu ets) sets a number of greenhouse gas emission allowances per member state, which are then distributed to a number of industrial enterprises.
the initial objective of this instrument was therefore to raise the price of carbon on the basis that the demand for polluting rights would be greater than the supply.
the price was eventually to reach a certain level that would encourage business investment in low-carbon technologies.
this is a key measure to combat climate change, in that it will raise the price of carbon and thus encourage companies to invest in technologies that emit less greenhouse gases.
the freezing of carbon emission allowances is by no means an appropriate response to the shortcomings of the market for allowances.
and i'm not talking about the increased risk of carbon leakage.
it took a second reading before the european parliament adopted what is now commonly called a reform of the carbon market or co2 quotas under the greenhouse gas quota trading system.
the gue/ngl is hostile to the carbon market, and the meagre reform proposed by the european commission, undermined by the dialogue with the council and the european parliament, is not up to the challenge, nor is the poor outcome of the warsaw cop.
climate and the planet cannot be satisfied with marginal measures.
i am deeply sorry that our house, which is very divided, has finally decided to freeze carbon emission quotas.
the freezing of the 'polluting rights' granted to almost 12 000 industrial sites in europe will in fact result in an increase in the energy bill of our companies, while the economy is faltering.
it is not the artificial market for pollution rights that we must save, but our companies, which suffer from higher energy costs, unlike their foreign competitors.
if the desired effect of raising the price of a tonne of carbon is not achieved, i would oppose any further attempt by the commission to manipulate the situation.
i voted in favour of the resolution on the definition of the criteria for determining when recovered paper ceases to be waste in order to clarify recycling procedures.
i support the principle of a regulation to define the criteria for the release of waste paper.
however, the european commission's proposal did not provide sufficient guarantees as regards the fate of the various components of multi-material papers, which in some cases could pose a danger to the environment.
i welcome the rejection of several amendments which showed a complete disregard for the waste economy and the provisions of the waste framework directive.
i supported the proust report for an action plan for a competitive and sustainable automotive industry in europe.
committing to the increased and sustainable competitiveness of the european automotive industry means guaranteeing 270 million motorists a quality and more environmentally responsible supply.
it is now up to the european union to take stock of a sector which is not only a pillar of its economy but also a driver of more sustainable growth.
the commission must therefore implement a sustainable strategy for this industry, so that it can remain efficient, competitive and able to access new markets.
to this end, this communication promotes the european green vehicle initiative and aims to reduce co2 and pollutant emissions and noise pollution, which i welcome.
i voted in favour of this report because it proposes a specific action plan to support the competitiveness and sustainability of our automotive industry.
in the longer term, the report stresses the urgency of investing heavily in research and innovation in sustainable and non-polluting technologies (alternative fuels, electric and hybrid vehicles and appropriate infrastructure, mobile energy storage).
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the house particularly wants an environment conducive to volunteering to be created, in particular by the introduction of a legislative framework which is still lacking today.
i voted in favour of this report because the conclusion of the protocol will lay the foundations for the gradual opening up of certain eu programmes to armenia or for the country's increased participation in them, which will not only strengthen ties in the fields of culture, education, the environment, technology and science, intensify people-to-people contacts and sectoral cooperation, but also consolidate political relations in favour of the eastern partnership and the association agreement.
the agreement will allow the eu to strengthen its links with armenia in the fields of culture, education, environment, technology and science.
this partnership will allow armenia to participate in eu programmes in the fields of cultural, environmental and other cooperation.
negotiations with armenia have been ongoing since april 2012. i voted in favour of this agreement because it will allow armenia to benefit from eu assistance in particular in the cultural, educational, environmental and scientific fields, unfortunately, the establishment of this cooperation is being carried out in parallel with negotiations for the establishment of a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) between the eu and armenia.
phil wynn owen is seen by the good people of european society as a player in the fight against climate change.
in 2012, he was a member of the jury of the international green award, a prize for positive initiatives in the field of the environment.
this prize is awarded annually to large companies with a so-called sustainable development model.
i believe that capitalism is the cause of climate change, and that the only way to solve this major problem of humanity is to completely change the economic, social and political model.
without ecological planning and ecosocialism, there is no salvation for our planet and our ecosystem.
the european union also has a duty to intervene on global issues such as climate change or migration flows.
this instrument then contributes to ensuring an environment of peace and security for both european citizens and those of the states in which the european union intervenes.
the threats mentioned here are a blend of organized crime, terrorism, cybersecurity, and natural disasters related to global warming.
it is a key instrument for crisis prevention and response, as well as for creating a stable and safe environment.
i voted in favour of this report because, with this new neighbourhood instrument, the eu should be able to react more quickly to the changing environment of its neighbourhood, while clearly upholding democratic values and human rights.
it is important to be able to adapt the instrument to each country in order to favour those countries which are committed to a strong and sustainable democracy.
while the instrument appears to contain positive elements, such as combating climate change or promoting decent work, it can be adapted on a case-by-case basis with increased support for 'good students' and we know which criteria are paramount for the eu: liberalism and the readmission of immigrants are at the top of the criteria.
such an instrument generates many positive effects, such as increased trade and the creation of a favourable economic environment for european enterprises, especially smes.
this innovative instrument will be very useful in establishing links with countries of strategic interest to the european union in the economic, scientific, environmental and mobility fields.
this new financial instrument for 2014-2020 focuses not only on trade issues but also on the fight against climate change (i.e.
the energy market), the protection of personal data (one sentence) and academic exchanges with countries such as china and russia.
in the context of these relations, it is important to emphasise the external dimension of community policies while addressing new challenges in the fields of energy, security and climate change.
the project will cover in particular the european union's interests in the fields of environment and climate, thus giving the europe 2020 programme an international dimension.
i voted in favour of this instrument because the eu's cooperation policy will focus on human and sustainable development.
i voted in favour of the development cooperation financing instrument, which aims to eradicate poverty in beneficiary countries, support their social and environmental development and consolidate democracy.
i welcome the vote on this text which aims to contribute to sustainable growth and employment in the european union.
they should ensure a stable future for the sector and avoid the depopulation of rural areas, with the negative economic and environmental consequences that follow.
it also takes climate change into account for the coherence of developed policies and opposes dumping of agricultural products.
the who defined disability as the result of the dynamic interaction between a health problem... and contextual factors which include both personal and environmental factors.
to this end, the legislation in force must be simplified to ensure the sustainability and smooth operation of this type of trade.
i voted in favour of this proposal which aims to address the main obstacles by defining a strategy for strengthening the competitiveness of the retail sector and improving its economic, environmental and social performance.
it is essential to ensure a favourable climate for independent shops.
without these tools, there is a risk that the objective of growth will remain a slogan or, even worse, that growth will lead to the same mistakes, particularly ecological ones, for which we are paying today, on the ground.
maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal zone management must therefore provide a strategic approach to the various maritime activities, both existing and those that will take place in the future, such as in the field of energy or marine biology.
the aim is to anticipate and manage these changes in order to allow the strategic sharing of the various maritime activities over time and space and the development of all sectors with respect for the environment.
as coastal areas often incorporate the most vulnerable marine ecosystems but are also the areas most heavily impacted by land-based pollution, it is crucial that a land-sea dialogue can be established.
it is in these areas, for example, that the greatest number of fish breeding areas are found and where a disaster on land can throw an entire ecosystem out of balance, as we have seen recently with fukushima.
we need to make it a new tool to help us reduce the pressures on our environment, a new tool to deal with a situation that no one denies.
europe is one of the most artificially created regions in the world, with the highest rate of fragmentation of natural habitats, degradation and loss of biodiversity due to human activities.
it is in this context that we must mobilise synergies to go from grey to green, to achieve the objectives that the european union has set itself in terms of combating climate change and biodiversity loss or, again, to ensure water quality and risk prevention.
we must go from grey to green, from investing at a loss to investing in the economy, employment, health and the environment of our territories.
the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment, such as the creation of a european network of airports, roadside bypasses and concrete dikes, urban green belts, agricultural grasslands, green roofs and preserved wetlands: a european policy for a european green fabric.
a new tool: green infrastructure with a transfer of european funding, to put an end to funding that is harmful to biodiversity, to reverse the trend, by promoting sustainable solutions that create jobs and offer many benefits for the economy and the environment.
let me begin by describing the economic environment of the past years.
to clarify the orientation of our monetary policy going forward in an exceptionally uncertain environment, we introduced forward guidance in july 2013. we stated that we expected key interest rates to remain at present or lower levels for an extended period of time.
it is a necessary, but not sufficient, condition to break the bank-sovereign nexus and restore sustainable economic growth.
the commission shares parliament’s view that the ecb has reacted decisively in a challenging environment and played an active role in stabilising financial and bond markets through the ltros and the omt decision.
we as the european union – that is both the eu institutions and the eu member states – must do better and step up a gear to boost affordable lending to smes for the sake of sustainable growth and job creation in europe.
indeed we need to boost sustainable growth and job creation in europe by all possible means.
it is reassuring indeed to know that i can count on your support in building the sustained recovery we need, the foundations for sustainable growth and job creation.
this is good news for mayotte, which as an eu territory will be able to benefit from eu funds and accelerate its economic, social and environmental development.
supporting infrastructure projects, renewable energy, preserving the ecosystem, supporting fishermen and farmers, or supporting the mahorais in the fields of education and training: in all these areas, eu aid will be a great opportunity for mayotte and the mahorais.
this is particularly the case in the environmental field, in fisheries and here in the postponement of the application of the directive on the agreement between the social partners on parental leave.
it is therefore important to propose some derogations from community law in the fields of the environment, agriculture, social policy and public health.
between the former competitiveness and innovation programme (cip) and horizon 2020. the current priority themes for eco-innovation projects are: recycling of materials, sustainability of building materials, the agri-food industry, the water sector and green trade.
it therefore has implications for employment and sustainable growth.
the statement that a market-based environmental policy is likely to generate growth and jobs in all sectors of activity is sufficient to show that the european union is far from the real issues of the ecological crisis.
of course carbon finance still remains central to this report.
this is very small compared to the scale of the ecological crisis.
environmental problems such as climate change, resource scarcity and the degradation of biodiversity require a radical transition of the union towards a sustainable economy.
the integration of sustainable development criteria into research and innovation by industry.
there is a need to give greater impetus to eco-innovative projects, which have a significant positive impact on employment and the environment.
the report also proposes interesting measures, such as the establishment, with the member states, of ecological standards for public procurement, and the development of clear labelling and definition rules for green products and services.
many citizens still believe that green jobs are limited to renewable energy generation and transport.
the european commission plays a leading role in sustainable development and in supporting the creation of green jobs in europe.
i voted in favour of this resolution because it highlights the dual environmental and economic benefits of a transition to a green and sustainable economy.
the increased contribution to the production of innovative fuels and materials, and the employment opportunities that the processing and distribution of biomaterials offer to commercial, public, private and domestic consumers, are creating sustainable and quality jobs for both skilled and unskilled workers.
but all of this takes place in a fragile environment that we do not yet know enough about and whose beauty and richness we must preserve for future generations.
therefore, a reasonable balance between economic, social and environmental factors is crucial in order to successfully promote the growth of the maritime economy while ensuring sustainable development.
the aim of this text is not only to develop the maritime economy in a sustainable way but also to guarantee legal certainty for smes in this sector.
moreover, from an environmental point of view, maritime and coastal activities and uses often take place in ecologically sensitive areas.
therefore, the ecosystem-based approach to managing and planning these activities fully meets this expectation, which i can only welcome.
i have been particularly interested in this issue because maritime and coastal planning is of strategic importance and i have in particular succeeded in finding a balance between the development of economic activities and the protection of the environment.
only a healthy ecosystem can be productive and provide the levers for growth, competitiveness and employment.
the development of tourism, the promotion of renewable marine energy and sustainable fisheries are all issues that will find their place in our strategy.
this is good news for mayotte, which as an eu territory will be able to benefit from eu funds and accelerate its economic, social and environmental development.
supporting infrastructure projects, renewable energy, preserving the ecosystem, supporting fishermen and farmers, or supporting the mahorais in the fields of education and training: in all these areas, eu aid will be a great opportunity for mayotte and the mahorais.
this is particularly the case in the environmental field and in fisheries matters.
several transitional periods and adjustments are of course necessary, particularly in the areas of waste water treatment, water policy and bathing water quality management.
the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) is the new fund proposed by the european union (eu) in the field of maritime affairs and fisheries for 2014-2020. i voted in favour of this new fund which aims to help fishermen adopt sustainable fishing practices; to help coastal communities diversify their economic activities; to finance projects to create jobs and improve the quality of life along europe's coast and to facilitate access to finance.
the €6.5 billion fund will help fishermen implement the fisheries reform adopted at european level for sustainable fisheries.
it requires a sustainable, supportive and social urbanisation project.
i voted in favour of this report on european capitals of culture for the years 2020 to 2033. this report takes stock of the actions carried out in the context of these european capitals of culture designated since 1985 and sets the rules for the period after 2020. i support this initiative, which aims to promote cultural activities in europe, the enhancement of european heritage and its inclusion in a sustainable and social urban development project, although i have some doubts about the latter.
this is good news for mayotte, which as an eu territory will be able to benefit from eu funds and accelerate its economic, social and environmental development.
supporting infrastructure projects, renewable energy, preserving the ecosystem, supporting fishermen and farmers, or supporting the mahorais in the fields of education and training: in all these areas, eu aid will be a great opportunity for mayotte and the mahorais.
this is particularly the case in the environmental field and in fisheries matters.
the region must be given the means to implement effective measures to establish a sustainable fishery, which meets the objectives of environmental protection.
the amendments are aimed at: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a disaster.
the programme targets around 7200 products that can enter the eu duty-free from vulnerable countries that accept the main international conventions on social issues, human rights, environmental protection and governance.
these areas are essential for, among other things, flood control, biodiversity protection and the survival of insects, especially bees, on which pollination depends.
this is a huge potential in terms of investment, jobs but also in terms of fighting climate change which we must support for the future of our planet.
i welcome the adoption of this resolution which recognises the major importance of green infrastructure for the effective protection of europe's natural capital, the conservation of natural habitats and species and the good ecological status of water bodies.
it is up to the member states to integrate green infrastructure issues into their spatial planning plans, consulting and educating stakeholders and the local population, and responding to ecological, economic and societal needs in both urban and rural areas.
this development is considered, in due course, necessary for a whole range of reasons such as public health, biodiversity, water quality and even social.
but as always, the european parliament's environmental policy is a private matter.
no truly coercive proposals are ever considered for the establishment of ecological planning at european level.
this resolution is therefore not fully in line with the fight against climate change.
the global ecological crisis is that of the capitalist mode of production, encouraged by the public policies currently in place, particularly those of the european union.
environmental planning, stop the anti-environmental policies of the european union.
the european commission, following an oral question from the environment, public health and food safety committee of the european parliament, has given some clarifications on the guidelines of european policies in favour of so-called green infrastructure, and these guidelines are what the european parliament has examined in this report.
these infrastructures are defined as 'a network of natural and semi-natural areas and other environmental elements' and are intended to protect nature as part of land use planning and development.
the implementation of the recommended measures is particularly important in the context of the fight against climate change, the prevention of natural disasters such as floods and the restoration of biodiversity, including forests.