mr president, we all want to see european workers protected from exploitation, but we also need high levels of employment and this can only be achieved through competitive and sustainable businesses.
my main concern is that, in all of the work that we are doing to combat climate change in the european union, we are looking at the impact and at how to mitigate and adapt to the impact of climate change outside the union.
we are not looking at what climate change is doing within the union, which is very much in line with what some of the scientists, particularly the potsdam institute, have been telling us to expect.
we need to be adapting all of our policies, competition policy and other policies, to fight the impact of climate change that we are already seeing in the european union, and i call on the commission to hold a special conference and get its act together as to what will be needed to do this.
that day has passed now and they are coming back to the european union, so i think there is an onus on us to communicate what is available, to explain how to apply, to organise for them to come here and visit, to meet those people in the directorate-general that are involved in the various areas, whether it is health or energy or agriculture or fisheries, whatever the area might be that is of interest.
this is important as proper town planning could enrich environmental, commercial, transport and infrastructure policies.
similarly, it is where the effects of the economic crisis are most strongly felt and the challenges of reducing the impact of climate change, job creation, well-being and quality of life are played out.
− i voted for this report which considers that the territorial approach should prove an effective mechanism for supporting smes in creating new sustainable jobs and initiating or developing vocational training programmes; it considers that entrepreneurial activity aimed at growth and employment and the tapping of potential can work across administrative territorial boundaries, and it calls on the member states to improve the existing conditions for new entrepreneurs in order to better exploit their high potential for creating new sustainable jobs.
we welcome the acknowledgement that in these challenging economic times there is no sustainable argument for increasing the budget line allocated to the fund.
when dealing with the anticipation, preparation and management of restructuring, companies, workers’ representatives, the public authorities and the other stakeholders, each in their respective capacity and competence, and at a moment which corresponds to their different responsibilities, act in a spirit of cooperation, based on timely and comprehensive information and consultation, whilst recognising that those processes aim to protect at the same time the interests of companies as regards competitiveness and sustainability and those of their workers.
for restructuring to be economically successful and socially responsible, it requires to be integrated into a long-term strategy aimed at ensuring and strengthening the long-term sustainability and competitiveness of the company.
− i voted for this report: ‘welcomes the eu strategy for the horn of africa, and in particular its comprehensive approach based on tackling the security and stability concerns, enforcing the rule of law and ensuring due process, which must include functioning law enforcement mechanisms and procedures as well as an independent judicial system, whilst addressing the underlying causes thereof, in particular through developmental and humanitarian strategies based on clear objectives; urges the full implementation of the eu strategic framework for the horn of africa and supports its five prongs based on: (i) building democratic, robust and accountable political structures in all countries of the horn of africa; (ii) working with the countries of the region and with regional and international actors and organisations to resolve conflicts, including through addressing their root causes; (iii) ensuring that existing insecurity in the region does not threaten the security of other neighbouring states or other regions or countries; (iv) supporting efforts to promote economic growth and reduce poverty; (v) supporting political and economic regional cooperation; stresses the importance of promoting sustainable economic growth in the region and reducing poverty, by responding to the basic needs of people’.
mr president, the protection of intellectual property is a very important matter in terms of biodiversity.
however, biodiversity is diminishing at an alarming rate; it is estimated that more than a quarter of the world’s original natural biodiversity had gone by the year 2000. a further 11% of land biodiversity is expected to be lost by the year 2050. this is reducing global gdp by 3% each year, i am told.
this particular report deals with the protection and preservation of genetic diversity and in common with our work on other committees, our concerns on environmental and species biodiversity, genetic diversity must be protected.
mr president, the report on the development aspects of intellectual property rights and genetic resources overlaps with a key component of the mdg, namely the global protection and preservation of biodiversity, which is being lost at an alarming rate.
we should have respect for genetic resources and traditional knowledge in these countries which are essential for sustainable agriculture and food security.
genetic resources (gr) are particularly essential for sustainable agriculture and food security.
furthermore, genetic diversity is one of the most important components for the survival of the species and the ecosystem’s resilience.
therefore, the loss of genetic diversity that occurs as part of the biodiversity erosion process represents a key challenge for humanity.
such erosion of diversity sets new challenges for both holders and users of gr, the former being most often biodiversity-rich developing countries, the latter being usually developed countries in this context biopiracy has emerged as a major concern for developing countries.
thirdly, we have an energy policy which is giving europe the most expensive energy in the world.
it is driving energy-intensive businesses offshore, taking their jobs and their investment with them.
it is forcing households and pensioners into fuel poverty, yet it is failing to cut emissions.
in the current climate of fiscal consolidation and enhanced scrutiny of all public expenditure, governments at all levels should be looking very hard at what they can justify putting public money into.
personally, i do not support the extension of the use of these lorries as proposed because i believe the infrastructure in many countries cannot cope and this could lead to road safety issues, and the effect on the environment and the rail freight sector has not been assessed.
we all know of course that there is little willingness by any member state to shift from their entrenched positions on the eurozone crisis, whether in the north or in the south, so in my view it is important not to waste time and divert scarce resources trying to pretend otherwise.
finally, repeatedly, a large majority in this chamber have voted for us to spend less time here in strasbourg, saving both time, money and carbon emissions.
it is ridiculous, especially during these times of austerity but at any time, that we are spending eur 120 million or more a year, plus all the waste in co2, shifting between two seats.
the majority of people here agree it should be brussels, but let us all work together to support one seat and stop this waste and show that we understand the concerns of our electorate.
that was seen as a cause for separation, as i suspect a lot of our constituents and people in different countries will see this extraordinary waste, this duplication of this monthly peregrination.
no one can justify the wholesale waste of money, time and carbon emissions.
this is the best setup both in economic terms and in terms of limiting the detrimental effects on the environment brought about by commuting between the two seats.
however, i am opposed to the parliament moving between brussels and strasbourg, which is hugely expensive and has detrimental effects on the environment.
maintaining brussels as the sole location of the european parliament would be a smart move in economic and environmental terms, saving around eur 180 million and 19 000 tonnes of co2 each year, which is why i voted against a further increase in this unnecessary expenditure.
while the changes voted on are restricted to procedural ones, the issue of sustainable fishing is of great concern to many of my constituents in wales, particularly during discussions on the common fisheries policy.
biodiversity in the uk is our national affair and decisions made in the field shall be made by the british government alone.
with its commitment to sustainable development, wales needs the protection that international treaties such as this one offer.
the protocol contains reference to a precautionary approach and reaffirms the precaution language in principle 15 of the rio declaration on environment and development.
for instance, the european job youth guarantee for unemployed people can be no substitute for the real issue at stake that the eurozone economies must now take a dose of thatcherite medicine as the only remedy for economic sustainability.
− i voted against this report as it gives the commission more power to make decisions on such things as types of fishing gear, bringing the fishing effort in line with the maximum sustainable yield principle and changing the timelines for the current stock management in the baltic sea.
while this change does not directly affect the welsh fishing fleet, i hope it is a reflection of a general trend of easing requirements when we can be sure that sustainability is ensured.
technical conservation measures are rules, which our fishermen throughout the european union must follow on a daily basis when undertaking a fishing expedition in order to ensure that how and where fishing activity is carried out it is done so in a sustainable manner.
the measures relate to minimum landing sizes, minimum net mesh sizes, zones and closed seasons, limiting by-catch, the criteria to use more selective fishing gears and measures designed to protect the marine environment and have thus a considerable impact in achieving the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp).
these renewables undermine economic competitiveness, damage our economy and threaten security of energy supply.
plaid cymru has called for a proportion of funding to be invested in energy efficiency and renewable energy schemes, which would not only contribute to our climate change goals but would also be a boost to building a sustainable economy in wales.
however, while the report contains some positive points, i voted against the final result as not enough support was given to renewable energy as opposed to possibly unsafe technologies such as fracking.
i see tremendous potential for using cohesion funding to develop clean energy sources.
we agree with the rapporteur that the structural and cohesion funds can potentially play a role in developing a more integrated and interconnected energy network in europe.
nonetheless, we believe that the subject of this report goes somewhat beyond the competence of the committee on regional development, and that its suggestions could lead to cohesion policy acting as an added subsidiary for environmentally harmful fossil fuels, and damage competition in the european energy market.
furthermore, we do not believe that member states’ cohesion envelopes for the post-2013 period should be subject to pre-set quotas for low-carbon projects.
− i welcome the general approach of linking cohesion policy to the europe 2020 objectives and its flagship initiatives in order to move towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to support the shift towards a low-carbon, energy-efficient economy in all sectors.
i also believe in the importance of the structural funds and the cohesion fund for achieving these short- and long-term objectives in accordance with the spirit of solidarity between member states as enshrined in the lisbon treaty, and for combating energy poverty in the less developed regions of the eu and the most vulnerable households.
the european parliament introduced the idea of ‘eurobonds’ in the texts concerning the governance of the eurozone (‘6 pack’) for multiple reasons: - to ensure sustainable budgetary discipline, founded on liquid markets, which reflect the respective situations of the member states; - to provide liquid and safe assets for investors, drawing on the benefits of the euro’s potential on the world markets; - to protect the ecb by allowing it to focus on monetary policy.
there is no chapter on sustainable development, social standards or human rights.
they want to know for a variety of reasons, ranging from a desire to support their own national industries to the right to exercise choice based on the political or environmental performance of the source country.
can you give us and the farmers that i represent in northern ireland an assurance that, in the harsh economic climate which they face – with rising input costs, static farm gate prices and lower profit margins on top of a potentially reduced cap budget and a commission proposal which puts little emphasise on food production – you will step in to protect farmers in northern ireland and across the eu?
we want to conclude an agreement at a regional level which supports sustainable development and fosters regional integration, because that is the way to prosperity and better development for the african continent.
− i voted for this resolution, which ‘stresses that competition policy must enable appropriate state support for the ecological transformation of the economy, in particular with regard to renewables and energy efficiency, and that the new guidelines should be based on this premise’.
economic conditions are not optimum for many reasons, which means the environment both politically and economically mitigates against best outcomes.
− i voted for this resolution which, in the light of the terrrible tradegy in a textile factory in bangladesh, calls on the commission actively to promote mandatory responsible business conduct among eu companies operating abroad, with a special focus on ensuring strict compliance with all their legal obligations, in particular international standards and rules in the areas of human rights, labour and the environment.
finally, i firmly support the proposal to promote responsible conduct among eu companies operating aboard and to make sure there are strict rules in place to make sure international standards are met in the areas of human rights, labour and environment.
− i welcome this resolution which reiterates the importance of including respect for democratic principles, fundamental and human rights and the rule of law as well as environmental and social standards in all trade agreements concluded between the eu and third countries, in order to achieve greater coherence in external actions, both reflecting the eu’s economic interests and promoting its fundamental values.
they knew the area, they knew the business climate and they knew the individual borrowers.
along with the absolute necessity to reduce red tape and bureaucracy, the single biggest challenge facing smes is the current difficult economic climate and access to finance.
written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by kartika tamara liotard, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the european innovation partnership on active and healthy ageing (com(2012)0083 – 2012/2258(ini)) (a7-0029/2013).
therefore liberals welcome the signs that an industrial policy is emerging – the renewed focus on ftas to secure market access, the plan for a connecting europe facility to create networks for transport and energy and information technology to underpin competitiveness, the investment in research and innovation, such as last week’s announcements on graphene and on human brain mapping, or the investment in the national composites centre in my constituency.
we also welcome the energy roadmap 2050 and its focus on cheaper and cleaner energy and green growth.
the uk has high unemployment, very high and growing youth unemployment and rising energy costs.
so-called green energy policies, which are pushed by the european commission, are killing and restricting potential growth areas, such as shale gas, which can provide jobs and cheap energy and in which the uk should be a world leader.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
we have a chance to rebuild fish stocks above maximum sustainable yield (msy), as we have heard, and to end discards, which are just a moral disgrace; it is a disgrace to throw millions of tonnes of perfectly edible fish overboard.
we need to look at the impact of climate change, and indeed the impact of sea mammal predation on fish stocks.
however, i question the value of measures that are not geared to the sustainable, competitive sector and which have ramifications for the farmers that i represent.
with current economic and environmental difficulties we must do as much as possible to protect europe’s farmers, this is why i have voted in favour of the report.
− i voted in favour of the committee report, which puts more emphasis on sustainability, regional self-sufficiency and assessment of trade agreements than the commission proposal did originally.
getting the climate right is incredibly important.
this is one area in which the eu can deploy its cohesion policy to promote pro-growth efficiency of investment, reduce the burden of bureaucracy and over-regulation, and allow smes the enhanced lending and assistance that so many of them desperately need in the current economic climate.
we have a suicidal energy policy.
third, the longest-term challenge that we face, the transition to a low carbon economy, cannot simply be parked, as last year’s forward agreed prediction showed.
this is about sustainability, and there will be no sustainable economic recovery without business itself being sustainable.
in this resolution we make a call to business to act on youth job creation, on the sustainability of pensions and in tackling exploitative labour practices in company supply chains.
finally, we endorse a new emphasis on corporate transparency, building on sustainability reporting by 6 000 companies championed by the global reporting initiative.
this new definition is easily understandable and moves csr from being seen as an add-on to being a way for organisations to incorporate sustainable and responsible practices into their business strategies.
companies have to follow environmental legislation but they are not required to reduce their carbon footprints.
we must ensure the consistency and transparency of information on sustainability provided by businesses, and therefore strongly encourage the use of international standards for this, such as the global reporting initiative.
this report speaks, among other things, of disseminating good practices, improving soft regulation processes, company disclosure of social and environmental information, emphasising the importance of national and subnational policies, and more of the same.
mr president, corporate social responsibility is a policy concept whereby businesses self-regulate in order to operate in an ethical and sustainable manner in order to understand and meet the needs and expectations of all stakeholders.
this report flits from subcontracting to low carbon technology and to gender equality in the blink of an eye.
perhaps control of noise pollution is one of those powers that david cameron wants to renegotiate the return of to the british parliament, among those many thousands of others long ago surrendered to the european union.
we will also draft a roadmap for the establishment of an eu-southern mediterranean energy community and we will develop projects with the region on transport, environment, water and rural development.
mr president, honourable members, i have set out the very difficult and challenging environment in which we are discussing the next mff.
i just thought that as we are talking about waking up and we are talking about climate change, i would draw it to your attention – you keep missing the point i think – that there is no scientific institution now in the world which does not accept that there has been no significance statistical climate change since 1995. i am just wondering when you are going actually to wake up to that fact?
in the meantime my local fishermen in small boats using lines, not nets, with no discards – they are sustainable fishermen – are not allowed to fish.
in these days when politics is full of very difficult economic choices that we all have to make, and we have very difficult foreign affairs issues going on all around the world, it is a huge achievement to have ensured that the issue around fish and the environmental sustainability of our seas has remained at the top of the agenda.
we need to create both a sustainable fishing industry and a sustainable marine ecosystem for the benefit of the environment, consumers and, not least, small-scale fishermen who have suffered great hardship under the common fisheries policy and deserve to be helped – and that is the aim of these reforms.
sustainability has always been central to the aim of developing and growing our fish and shellfish industry and in particular enabling more locally sourced produce to be used.
we need more sustainable practices so that there will be fish in the sea for years to come.
− i welcome this vote for a major reform of the eu’s common fisheries policy (cfp) which aims to cut fishing to sustainable stock levels, end dumping at sea and base long-term planning on sound scientific data.
the reform of the cfp is crucial for sustainable fishing and a sustainable marine environment.
− i wholeheartedly support a significant reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp), which aims to end overfishing and to promote sustainable practices.
i support the introduction of a discard ban – discards currently account for almost a quarter of all catches and i believe the parliament is right to call for this practice to be phased out, starting in 2014. furthermore, i welcome measures to make fishing more sustainable and agree that fishermen should respect a ‘maximum sustainable yield’.
this should hopefully lead to stocks recovering by 2020, and after that point we need to make sure they remain sustainable.
the reforms called for an end to the hugely wasteful practice of discarding fish back into the ocean to keep within quota limits and also introduce a legal requirement to end overfishing by obliging fisheries ministers to set sustainable quotas which respect the maximum sustainable yields (msy) for each species.
the reforms will also allow day-to-day management of fisheries to be done at a regional level, by people who know the local area, and will allow member states to award larger quotas to fleets that practise sustainable fishing methods – helping our small-scale fishermen.
noise pollution is a serious issue which can lead to hearing damage, sleep disturbance and even cardiovascular disease.
madam president, i was very happy to support this report, particularly as i recognise that the increase in noise pollution that we are all suffering – particularly those who live in urban areas or near busy roads – is a genuine scourge and a real danger to health.
mr president, anyone who has visited my region of london can attest to the fact that the capital city is plagued by noise pollution.
while it is important to address the issue of environmental noise caused by motor vehicles, we must remember to do so in a pragmatic and balanced way.
− whilst there is no doubt that noise pollution is a serious issue for the environment across the eu, it is essential that when implementing this regulation, we do not forget the impact it could have on vulnerable sections of society.
− this is a flawed and poorly thought-out report that falls significantly short in its attempt to outline comprehensive and effective environmental noise reduction measures.
it completely overlooks the issue of traffic volume which ultimately determines road noise-pollution levels.
− i support the aim of the proposed regulation of reducing environmental noise by lowering the noise limit values and by introducing a new and refined test method for measuring noise emissions to lower noise pollution from cars in general.
− excessive noise pollution is damaging to public health, which is why i voted in favour of a new legislation that will tighten up current regulations and ensure that eu citizens are better protected from the harmful effects of loud vehicles.
around half of those living in large towns and cities are exposed to unacceptably high levels of noise pollution, contributing to severe sleep deprivation and stress, and also linked to 250 000 heart attacks and 50 000 early deaths annually across the eu, therefore i welcome these proposals to reduce existing decibel limits.
− the commission’s proposed regulation aims to reduce noise pollution from traffic, which has a severely detrimental effect on public health.
while most member states have had to take far-reaching measures to bring down debt levels and decrease budget deficits in order to bring public finances back to a sustainable path, some countries have been affected to the extent that they have had recourse to the financial support mechanisms of the eu.
madam president, i was happy to vote for mr gallagher’s report on technical conservation measures, since aspects of this report are very important for sustainable fish stocks and for the measures which the industry might use to ensure this goal.
these plans are essential to preserving fish stocks and the future sustainability of the industry, yet we find ourselves in a dispute between three european institutions over the issue of competence.
technical conservation measures are rules, which our fishermen throughout the european union must follow on a daily basis when undertaking a fishing expedition in order to ensure that how and where fishing activity is carried out it is done so in a sustainable manner.
the measures relate to minimum landing sizes, minimum net mesh sizes, zones and closed seasons, limiting by-catch, the criteria to use more selective fishing gears and measures designed to protect the marine environment and have thus a considerable impact in achieving the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp).
− i voted in favour as fisheries should be conserved in order to maintain sustainable fish stocks and a sustainable marine environment.
– madam president, we have gone to climate change conferences in the past and one of our strategies has been to lead by example.
that is why we look at the range of initiatives that must be taken and we see, for example, carbon capture and storage, something which we are told will be necessary to reduce our emissions by 2050 by up to 25% globally.
there are 17 ccs projects either in operation or under construction across the world, saving up to 37 million tonnes of carbon dioxide.
we criticise those countries over greenhouse gases but they are doing something.
one of the reasons for it is the collapse in the carbon price which has sucked out the economic drive behind ccs, but there are things we must do.
i do not think the division between dg climate and dg energy over ccs helps.
we have placed too much reliance on the carbon price, not enough on direct subsidies.
we subsidise renewable energy and yet ccs can save vastly more co2 emissions in the atmosphere than renewables.
– madam president, while the challenge of climate change must not be underestimated, we must also remember our constituents face their own challenge, paying the high cost of energy bills.
ambitious targets for cutting greenhouse gases are all well and good but they must allow us to keep pace with the growing demand for energy.
green energy also needs to offer consumers value for money.
we must ensure a multifaceted approach to addressing climate change which includes renewables, as well as other sources of energy such as nuclear power and shale gas.
we need to make our energy resources more sustainable and our energy consumption more efficient.
i welcome the uk government’s green deal scheme to improve energy efficiency and help families cut their household energy bills.
we also need to invest in energy-efficient technology.
any deal which is negotiated in warsaw needs to be good for climate, good for the country and, most importantly, good for the consumers.
madam president, the economic crisis currently being experienced in developed countries such as ireland must not be used as an excuse to ignore or to divert attention away from the extremely important issue of climate change.
as bairbre de brún, my predecessor, who did sterling work on this matter, would have done, i urge countries to move towards a sustainable and low-carbon economy where jobs can be created, whilst protecting the economy.
at conference of the parties (cop) 19 in warsaw the eu must set out an ambitious, strong and effective stance in seeking a deal on climate change.
for example, between june 2008 and december 2009, an estimated eur 5 billion was lost as a result of vat fraud in greenhouse gas emission allowances.
however, environment and place play an integral role in the process of ageing.
− i welcome the fact that this resolution underlines the importance of ensuring health and safety at work as a prerequisite for a sustainable working life and for active ageing, notably for workers with disabilities or chronic conditions.
where people have been prevented from trading, in other words prevented from treating local wildlife as a renewable resource, they have very naturally hunted that wildlife to extinction.
as a nation committed to achieving sustainability, wales will play its part in achieving this aim, despite not being a signatory to cites in its own right yet.
by all means target money at productive schemes, but cut out the waste that cannot be justified.
i also supported the amendment calling for a decrease in the general expenditure allowance of meps and for new up-to-date figures on the financial and environmental costs of the two seats of the ep.
− i agree with that fact that business cannot take over public authorities’ responsibility for promoting, implementing and monitoring social and environmental standards.
in contrast to the howitt report, which i voted against, this text makes clear that, while it remains for public authorities to promote and monitor social and environmental standards, we need a business-led solution to implementing csr requirements.
− i welcome this resolution, which stresses that stringent respect for human rights, due diligence and transparency must be maintained in order to ensure csr along the whole supply chain, measure the sustainability footprint of european business, and combat tax avoidance and illicit money flows.
− i voted in favour as i support the key message from this report – that csr forms a vital part of the route towards a sustainable recovery and that the eu and its member states as well as our companies must work harder to increase company engagement and to meet international standards and initiatives.
i agree that increased measures are needed to bring about environmental changes to ensure a sustainable economic recovery and i echo the rapporteur's calls for eu businesses to take action on youth job creation and address exploitative work practices.
furthermore, i support the promotion of new markets in socially useful and environmental products and services.
i sincerely hope that this vote will be addressed by the commission and that it will push forward new proposals for a law on non-financial reporting by business, which would require companies to publicly report on their sustainability.
finally, i specifically support calls for the european commission to lead on this issue - to report on the sustainability of the institution and to introduce scheme where staff are able to volunteer in social and environmental projects.
i also believe that further extending the single market into areas like digital, energy and financial sectors must be seriously looked at as a further means of making economic progress.
i voted in favour of this annual report and welcome the reference that the activities of the bank should support europe's transition to a more sustainable economy.
– mr president, would even mr turmes – who i am sure is absolutely right to argue for greater energy efficiency – not accept that if we were sufficiently bold in making the switch from fossil fuels to green energy, then we would be able to do so without switching off the lights or without even having to save energy?
there is as much sunshine hitting the desert in six hours as there is energy that we use in a whole year worldwide.
she has got some excellent points in the report although, inevitably, she had to include the european obsession with emissions reductions and global warming, even though there has been no global warming for 17 years.
i am encouraged that gas remains prominent, especially in view of the shale gas opportunity, and i am pleased to see the concerns expressed about energy prices, competitiveness and fuel poverty.
we cannot accept the emissions trading scheme, which is a huge failure and is unnecessary and unaffordable.
we cannot approve of carbon capture and storage, which is a pipedream and is unnecessary and unaffordable, and we cannot support calls for global climate action, which is not going to happen and is in any case unaffordable and unnecessary.
because carbon profiteers, wind farm wide-boys and left-wing broadcast media like the bbc have conned and bullied and bribed mps and meps into believing – or pretending to believe – that man-made global warming is going to destroy the world.
carbon taxes make fortunes for the super rich while old mrs smith shivers to death.
− madam president, in recent weeks i have addressed both parliament’s committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on 20 and 28 february 2013 respectively, on the subject of the discovery of horsemeat labelled as beef in certain processed food products in a number of member states.
because of the challenges we have in energy security, energy investment – especially in infrastructure – is extremely important.
− while i welcome the trans-european energy infrastructure project, i do not feel that this proposal looks at the future of european energy.
although the proposal contains some positive language relating to energy efficiency, i chose to abstain as it does not fully comply with long-term climate and energy goals.
that projects have to demonstrate being in line with the 2050 climate and energy goals in order to avoid further fossil fuel lock-in.
in wales we are looking at sustainable ways of generating energy using wind and water, for example.
not only do fossil fuels damage the environment but they are running out.
we need to develop a sustainable energy smart grid for europe to ensure that europe will be able to produce energy in the future.
i represent a country which is at the very heart of the renewables revolution, and scotland is on target to have 100% of its electricity needs met from renewable sources.
the new regulation is a positive and important initiative as it aims at accelerating the accomplishment of the internal energy market and at delivering on the eu’s energy policy and climate goals.
the proposal envisages the modernisation and interconnection of energy networks.
in electricity it aims at enhancing market integration and competitiveness, system security and integration of renewable sources of energy, coping with decentralised and non-dispatchable power generation through smart grids, connection to storage sites and electricity highways.
in gas, energy security can be accomplished through the diversification of sources and routes for gas supply, liquefied natural gas (lng) storage and reverse flow pipelines.
the proposal also supports the supply of crude oil to landlocked countries and the deployment of pipelines for carbon capture and storage to connect production and storage sites.
− i voted in favour of this report to ensure that in future satisfactory environmental impact assessments (eia) are carried out, particularly with regards to infrastructure development, and that there are adequate provisions in place for review procedures of eias.
this is essential to protect the environment in wales and we have several current examples of where this has not been adequately carried out.
i worked on this file, both in the committee on agriculture and rural development and in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
finally, i applaud the consistency between this text and other international climate change agreement texts.
whatever one’s view on climate change and the destruction of our environment or the problems with our environment, it is quite clear that it is important that we monitor the use of some of the gases that could damage the environment.
we hear complaints quite often from farmers in developing countries who say that we are developing new standards – sometimes sanitary and phytosanitary standards – to raise the bar for their exports to the eu when what we could be doing is helping them to create wealth in their local communities by exporting food and other products to us, and we complain about the way that they use their land even though it is not particularly damaging to the environment.
but what i would ask, in general, is that, whatever our views on climate change and the green agenda, it is important that we find consensus in these areas so that we can gain the support of as many people as possible.
− i supported this proposal to integrate the land use, land use change and forestry sectors into the eu's climate policy.
a legal framework ensuring harmonised rules and requirements will help to reduce carbon emissions.
we have seen similar developments in wales, with increased co-operation between environmental bodies.
− the integration of land use, land use change and forestry into the union’s climate policy is an important step and i supported the compromise text.
− accounting for land use, land-use change and forestry (lulucf) is a key element in climate policy with the potential, among other things, to contribute to mitigation, adaptation, conservation of biodiversity and sustainable use of natural resources.
a first step towards incorporating lulucf sectors into the eu's reduction efforts and ensuring complementarity among union policies is to establish robust rules to account for emissions and removals occurring from lulucf activities.
in this respect, lulucf accounting within the european union should be driven by three overarching objectives: to facilitate compliance with the independent international obligations of member states and the european union as parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc) and the kyoto protocol; to provide policy coherence with existing and contemplated union legislation for future coordination and integration, including but not limited to the common agricultural policy (cap) and the renewable energy directive; and to ensure that accounting practices and methodologies conform to accepted principles of transparency, consistency, comparability, completeness and accuracy – not only within member states but among them as members of the european union.
− it is important to account for the climate impact of the forestry and agricultural sectors, as these lands cover more than three-quarters of eu territory and naturally hold large stocks of carbon, preventing its escape into the atmosphere.
the agreement arising from this report calls for mandatory accounting rules for a broad scope of processes which affect the environment, ensuring that we can keep a proper track of the effects of development on our natural environment, and so help to reverse the effects of climate change.
whatever one’s view on climate change and the destruction of our environment, or the problems with our environment, it is quite clear that it is important to monitor the use of some of the gases that could damage the environment.
we complain about the way in which they use their land, even though it is not particularly damaging to the environment.
that would be my first warning, but in general i would say that, whatever our views on climate change and the green agenda, it is important that we find consensus in these areas so that we can get the broadest possible support from as many people as possible.
for that reason, i am very pleased that we saw significant differences and movement in order to accommodate different views, and to make sure that what we end up with is useful and that people, whatever their views on climate change, find that the data that is collected and shared is useful, so that we can make sure that we have a better environment for all our citizens.
− i voted in favour of this report to improve the existing monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions.
it is important that member state comply with commitments and obligations under current and future international climate change agreements, to fulfil the legal requirements of the climate and energy package, and to support the development of climate mitigation and adaptation instruments at union level.
in wales we are aware of the effects that greenhouse gases have on the environment and i often receive correspondence from my constituents urging that i do my utmost to ensure that the eu cuts down its greenhouse gas emissions.
− it is essential for the union’s monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions to be as effective as possible if we are to meet our targets.
timely, reliable and accurate data on greenhouse gas emissions is vital in order to know whether the eu and its member states are on track to meet their targets and for developing robust new policies to address the climate challenge.
the regulation on a mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions (mmr) replaces the monitoring mechanism established under decision no.
− this report aims to establish a harmonised system on monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions.
this will help keep an appropriate check on areas currently failing to implement effective pollution reduction measures, such as my own constituency of london – where disputes over the reality of pollution levels and what constitutes effective environmental schemes delay pollution clean-ups and have a consequent effect on the health of londoners.
the report focuses on sustainable management of natural resources, sustainable fisheries management, promotion of renewable energy, environmental protection and the need for public investment to guarantee decent jobs – all of which are in line with the policies of the party of wales.
situated as they are in the indian ocean, the caribbean, the atlantic or the pacific they are directly confronted with the new challenges which europe itself must face, including the globalisation of trade and new environmental threats and risks in relation to climate change.
safe drinking water for european citizens is a core concern of policies in the fields of human health and environmental protection.
− the state of the environment report from the european environmental agency states that the eu is moving away from, rather than towards, sustainability.
the proposals will ensure that better knowledge and responsiveness in dealing with the problems will improve the delivery of eu environment measures.
constituents and businesses in wales send me a great deal of correspondence concerning sustainability measures in the eu; the regulations need to be clearer at eu level in order to make sure that we are moving towards a more sustainable future.
− i welcome this report, which stresses the importance of tighter monitoring of how environmental legislation is applied, and calls, therefore, for current capacities to be strengthened and for cohesion to be ensured among the various monitoring bodies in the member states, on the basis of eu guidelines.
− i welcome today’s own-initiative report on progress of implementation of environmental legislation.
i agree that effective implementation of environmental law reduces costs, which in turn can benefit industry and deliver investment opportunities.
local and regional authorities are often affected by changes to environmental measures and i would encourage these authorities to implement eu law within the specified timeframes.
furthermore, i believe it is important to limit administrative burden for local and regional authorities, without putting at risk the effectiveness and implementation of environmental programmes.
– madam president, the alde group believes that the cap should be the main driver in developing a more sustainable eu agriculture, one that can meet the growing demand for food production while at the same time cutting its energy use, cutting its resource use and cutting its greenhouse gas emissions.
firstly, we want to ensure that the flexibility in our compromises is given to member states, and greening is not used to water down the environmental impact of greying.
that is why we support the idea of equivalence and we want the commission to be judge and jury in ensuring that any flexibility used by member states delivers the same environmental impact.
we also want to see reintroduced all the smrs and the gaecs that disappeared in the vote in committee, with the exception of two: one on the ploughing of carbon-rich soils – we have serious concerns about its practical implementation – and the second on eid.
i hope that parliament, in its vote tomorrow, will back these changes and deliver a strong mandate for the negotiators, to ensure that we do deliver a more sustainable agriculture – one that can produce the food we need while at the same time tackling climate change and preserving precious resources.
can i just say about double funding – because this is the in word – that it is to some extent a distraction away from supporting, in my opinion, existing agri-environmental schemes, and this we must resolve during the trilogues.
commissioner, your train was delayed for four hours today, 12 march, by severe winter weather, yet farmers are expected to solve the non-existent problem of man-made global warming with a series of measures that will do nothing to change the world’s weather but will reduce food production at a time when major world commodities are in a state of under-supply.
this proposal is extremely complex, may restrict farmers’ ability to produce food, and in many cases will not deliver for the environment.
flexibility allows member states and regions to implement the policy in a way which best suits the needs of farmers, wildlife and the environment.
the committee on agriculture and rural development and, indeed, our friends in the commission, have done a really decent shift for our consumers, our citizens, our farmers and the environment, as we have taken this dossier thus far; but lest we get too smug, let us remember why we are having to make these reforms at all.
there is much to admire: a 5 % ring-fence for leader, a higher co-financing rate for agri-environent schemes; agri-environment schemes and organic schemes guaranteed a 25 % ring-fence of funding; support – crucially, from our perspective – for advisory services to encourage local processing, short supply chains, better practices, quality schemes, even community ownership: better practices in the round, to assist our farmers to modernise how they do things.
as for greening, i am all for well-funded agri-environment schemes, but the kindergarten approach put forward by the commission in its original report and then tinkered with by parliament will not deliver.
we have an opportunity to improve food production efficiency and protect and enhance our environment.
how then can the public believe that their environmental concerns have been addressed?
sustainable growth is not achieved by throwing ever greater amounts of taxpayer’s money at the economy.
that is why i will be opposing the council cuts to the mff and supporting instead investment in sustainable jobs and communities, at the very time when the whole of europe needs it most.
the eu seeks to impose its dogma on china far too often, for example on aero-engine emissions, an attempt which was unsuccessful.
further, it does not reflect the priorities that are necessary to achieve job creation and sustainable economic development.
instead of allowing us to export and share best practice in how farmers care for the environment, we are moving backwards – to set-aside and compulsory crop rotation.
this is not good for farming or for food, and it is not good for the environment either.
if you add to this a stubborn resistance of this farmer-dominated agriculture committee to even entertain environmental protection and rural sustainability or any change to end subsidies for a more market-orientated system, then it becomes apparent that this whole process has become a farce.
at a time in which we face a crisis of competiveness, the proposed double-funding of agri-environment payments is simply wasteful.
mr president, energy security will, in many ways, be the key to the future prosperity of my country and all other member states – which must think long-term and be forward-looking in this respect.
it is crucial that we seek ways to diversify our energy sources and thus to protect all european countries from external influences which affect costs for consumers and threaten energy security.
i commend the adoption of all the amendments calling for greater promotion of nuclear energy.
this source has the potential to increase the self-sufficiency in energy production of all the member states, while also reducing global greenhouse gas emissions.
i would appreciate more concrete long-term targets for the eu with regard to energy options leading up to 2050. the report is also timely in other respects, and it is necessary in order for the eu to move successfully into the future with a plan for energy production and consumption.
we must, however, be clear in our intentions and provide ourselves with definite and definitive goals, because external energy security is clearly a very important consideration, particularly in relation to the common foreign and security policy, with which i am involved.
mr president, our energy infrastructure requires long-term investment, and for long-term investors we need long-term strategies.
− i voted for this report which highlights the importance of the eu’s energy policy amidst the economic and financial crisis; emphasises the role that energy plays in spurring growth and economic competitiveness and creating jobs in the eu; calls on the commission to propose post-2020 strategies and to present, as soon as possible, a 2030 policy framework for a eu energy policy; believes that this policy framework should be consistent with the eu’s 2050 decarbonisation agenda and that it should take into account the ‘no regrets’ options identified in the roadmap; calls for action to be taken to minimise the energy sector’s negative impact on the environment, while taking into account the effects of the action taken on the competitiveness of national economies and the eu economy, as well as on the citizens’ security of energy supply.
− london currently faces a pollution crisis.
it will likely exceed air pollution limits imposed by the air quality directive this year – affecting the health of hundreds of thousands of londoners, especially children and older people.
the s&d was commited on this report to calling for binding targets for greenhouse gases, renewables and efficiency.
these conditions are more important than ever for my london constituents, with the city’s failure to meet its emissions targets, and the prospect of new, high-pollution concerns, such as the south london incinerator, likely to gain planning permission in the near future.
− i voted in favour of this report, which highlights parliament’s position on the commission’s proposals regarding the eu’s energy agenda up to 2050. it is important to establish long-term goals in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, increasing renewable energy use and improving energy efficiency, something which this resolution sets out to do.
addressing the social problems precipitated by fuel poverty and the rising cost of energy is also a preoccupation in the report.
we need a clean, sustainable energy system fit for the future to provide competitiveness and energy independence, reducing imports and investing domestically – binding targets are key to this.
mr president, nuclear power is the energy of the present and the future; it is cleaner in terms of greenhouse gas emission, and more efficient and more sustainable than any other prominent energy source.
it is crucial that we recognise the potential of nuclear energy.
stress tests on nuclear power plants are very necessary to ensure the safe production of this form of energy.
european policy on nuclear energy is not a competence of this parliament under the euratom treaty or under the european treaty.
the risks of irreversible damage to humans and the environment are simply too great.
− i welcome this resolution which urges the member states to ensure that all cases of asbestosis, mesothelioma and related diseases are registered by means of systematic data collection on occupational and non-occupational asbestos diseases, to categorise and officially register pleural plaques as an asbestos-related disease, and to provide, with the assistance of dedicated observatories, a reliable mapping of asbestos presence; stresses that such a register and map at eu level should include the exact location of public and private sites containing asbestos, as well as providing clear details of those landfills containing asbestos waste, so as to prevent ground in which such materials are buried from being disturbed unwittingly, and to contribute to prevention and remedial actions.
− i voted for this report which supports the public commitment made by the eu and china during their high-level strategic dialogue of 9-10 july 2012 in beijing to setting a good example of international cooperation in the 21st century through their strategic partnership based on shared interests and mutual understanding; supports and encourages the almost 60 sectoral dialogues between the eu and china, with the conviction that an enhanced and highly developed partnership will be mutually beneficial to both the eu and china; wishes, however, to see a strengthening of these dialogues in the fields of human rights, the environment, security, energy and in particular the fight against counterfeit products, in view of its impact on public health and safety; encourages efforts to actively seek synergies between china’s 12th five-year plan and the europe 2020 strategy with a view to deepening pragmatic cooperation in various fields; believes, moreover, that the concept of strategic partnership must be better defined; calls for increased trade and economic relations with china to go hand in hand with considerable progress in the political dialogue on human rights and the rule of law.
– mr president, we agreed some ten years ago that the way to stimulate low-carbon investment was to put a price on carbon.
we introduced the emissions trading system because it was seen as the means by which industry could achieve carbon reduction goals at the least possible cost and in the most flexible manner.
it is true that the price of carbon is down because of the economic downturn, but it is also down because mistakes have been made in the structure of the scheme, and those mistakes need to be corrected.
we have introduced a ‘carbon price floor’ in order to stimulate these low-carbon investments and give an incentive to renewables and to the nuclear power industry.
it has got to be in the interests of british industry to make sure there is a level playing field, and i appeal to british conservatives mps – not simply for the sake of coalition policy in my country but for the sake of our industry – to support this measure and achieve a level playing field to promote low-carbon investment across the whole of the european union.
mr president, well what do we know about carbon dioxide?
not carbon – carbon dioxide is a different thing for those people in this chamber who have not had the benefit of a formal education.
we know that carbon dioxide in the atmosphere always follows periods of global warming.
we know, do we not, that the hypothesis that man-made global warming was going to cause totally apocryphal boiling in 2050 now is completely nonsense.
there has been no statistically significant global warming now for over fifteen years.
and commissioner, you say that the weather is getting worse and worse; that climate change is getting worse.
– mr president, since i came into the chamber, a note has been circulated by members of the secretariat of the committee on the environment to say i have been appointed as rapporteur for the carbon capture and storage report.
anyone who goes round airbus or boeing knows that the aircraft manufacturers are competing on the basis of fuel efficiency, and that of course means lower co2 emissions.
– mr president, commissioner, i think the entire emissions trading scheme is, quite frankly, a shambles, as we have just heard during the last debate.
the derogation from this scheme really has nothing to do with anything apart from saving face from an exercise that has been pushed through by dg environment (as it was) and which has shown that it is not really going to work.
modern commercial aircraft are more environmentally friendly than ever before, and other measures exist that would mitigate pollution and costs in the single european sky and similar projects.
i am a conservative; we are supportive of business and there are other mitigating ways in which we can deal with pollution, environment and all of these things.
it has been a waste of time since we started, and we have gained a whole host of hostility from third countries, which is not the way that the european union should be doing business in my view.
but the bottom line is that there is no one in this chamber who does not want to mitigate pollution.
– madam president, in the uk (and i am sure in other member states too), consumers increasingly want to purchase and eat fish which has been caught from sustainable stocks.
however, i would like to reinforce the point and ask ms stihler if she believes that, if we are not able to continue negotiations to secure a sustainable fishing agreement between the european union and iceland, that there would be any risk for those negotiations?
we need a partnership between fishermen, scientists and conservationists to do this, and if we add it to the opportunity for investment in renewable energy generation, we can do much to protect our aquaculture.
this is especially important in the current climate, when the council wants to cut the budget.
in wales, we put the utmost importance on protecting the marine environment, as reflected in our excellent marine biology departments in our coastal universities.
the current regulation 812/2004 has serious shortcomings in terms of the protection of cetacean habitats, underwater noise pollution and collision with vessels.
rather than leaving no regulation in place at all, this report ensures a properly managed agreement, with cooperation on sustainable and complimentary fishing.
mr president, i believe climate change does pose a real threat to our futures, as does energy security.
we do need to move to a lower carbon economy and especially to investment in new nuclear.
long-term investment like this does need a long-term strategy, but right now today, high energy prices are also causing real problems for many millions of households, and the eu’s energy policies have caused many businesses to relocate to other parts of the globe.
we therefore need a global approach, and it is good to know that other parts of the world are now also setting up their own emissions trading schemes.
mr president, it is worth remembering that, long before it became popular, one of the first people to talk about the connection between greenhouse gases and climate change was the then prime minister of the united kingdom, margaret thatcher, and i hope that you of all people will allow me in the circumstances to say a word or two about her.
mr president, as the previous speaker said, just as mrs thatcher found a country broken in 1979 and fixed much of it, the eu emissions trading system also clearly has its problems and needs to be fixed.
there is already concern at some of the so-called de-industrialisation in europe, where companies are saying: ‘we will no longer abide by these rules and we will simply emit this pollution elsewhere’.
mr president, since this parliament voted to reject the groote report, the carbon price has halved to just over two euros.
that means that investment in renewable energy, ccs and indeed nuclear power becomes more expensive across the european union.
i think this is a very black day for eu climate policy.
two former tory environment ministers have this morning put an article in the media saying that mrs thatcher recognised climate change and that she would have wanted the eu to act on climate change.
mr president, we have many times in this parliament said that if we wished to encourage low carbon investments, then a price must be put on carbon.
but then the uk has a special interest in this issue, because not only do we endorse that european policy, we have gone further: the coalition government in the uk has introduced a carbon floor price to maintain a minimum price for carbon, so as to encourage those low carbon investments.
it must, therefore, be in the interests of british representatives to stand up and say that the european emissions trading system needs to be tightened and that the price should be levelled.
but british conservatives today have stabbed their own coalition government in the back; they have stabbed european climate change policy in the front; and they have dealt a major blow to the reputation of their own party.
a few years ago, david cameron was seen cuddling a husky to try to improve his party’s environmental credentials.
− i am, in principle, against the ets system and a market-driven approach to combating climate change.
however, the current reality is that voting against the backloading measures would be a political signal to stop investing in reduced carbon technologies and it would be a political signal that climate change policies are no longer a priority.
instead, i would like to give a political signal in favour of policies combating climate change and therefore i have voted in favour of the groote report.
− i am in favour of delaying the auctioning of emissions allowances in the eu’s ets in order to increase the deflated price of carbon and combining that with structural measures to reduce the supply of carbon.
− i regret that parliament did not support this sensible proposal to give the commission flexibility in the timing of auctions of greenhouse gas allowances.
− i voted for this report because of the serious health and environmental risks posed by carbon pollution.
without this report, the over-allocation of credits would force the price of carbon pollution down within the ets.
in the hours since parliament rejected this report, the price for carbon trading has already plummeted – making it cheaper for companies to pollute within the eu.
− i voted for this report as it allows the propping up of the eu’s carbon market and will give the commission a legal mandate to propose an amendment to the timetable for auctioning of ets allowances.
− the emissions trading scheme (ets) is at the heart of the eu’s climate change policy and, as the only system of its kind, has helped make europe a world leader in fighting global warming.
however, the reduction in industrial output since the economic downturn, combined with an over-allocation of carbon credits in the previous two rounds, has led to a dramatic drop in the price of carbon and means the scheme is now in danger of collapse.
by releasing fewer permits in the short term, it was hoped the price of carbon would be pushed back up, thus getting the scheme back on track.
a higher price of carbon would be an incentive for investment in clean, low-carbon technology, which is vital if we are serious about tackling climate change.
unfortunately, the european parliament, with support from several uk conservatives, voted against the proposal, and this will put the survival of the scheme, and the eu’s ability to meet its carbon reduction targets, in doubt.
− the ukip position has always been one of complete opposition to the eu ets and its justificatory mindset of a manmade co2 global warming scare story based on bogus and discredited theories.
i do not deny the need to deal effectively with pollution, but rather than an ill-thought-out scheme it ought to be done in conjunction with the industry.
− i voted against this proposal as it demonstrates lack of resolve regarding eu environmental and climate policy.
globally, climate change is worsening and, even though the eu is on track to meet its 2020 climate change targets, we need to be setting more ambitious targets.
wales has led the way with its commitment to annual emissions reduction and we should be more ambitious if we are to achieve our economic, social and environmental goals.
the proposal does not envisage the implementation of the eu ets for intercontinental flights in respect of emissions during 2012. flights inside the european area will be covered by the obligation of the directive as decided by the parliament and council in 2008. all measures are non-discriminatory, which means that the same rules apply for eu and non-eu carriers.
− my london constituency, as one of the largest hubs for air traffic in the world, suffers a whole manner of aviation-related pollution.
making airlines pay for the cost of the pollution they cause is vital in the fight against climate change.
this means that, in the new year, any flights entering or leaving the eu will have to comply with our environmental standards.
− i voted for this report as it will defer enforcement of the eu ets for aviation for one year and allow breathing space for the promising international negotiations to come to a global agreement to regulate emissions from international aviation.
in order to secure a sustainable and diverse eu banking culture which primarily serves the interest of the people, small-scale banking activities, such as those of credit unions and cooperative banks, should be encouraged.’
in writing.
measures included in the report should put an end to the excessive risk culture that led to bank bail-outs and bank collapses, and ensure a more sustainable banking model.
in order to safeguard a sustainable and diverse banking environment in europe, competent authorities should be empowered to impose significantly higher capital requirements for systemically important institutions that are able, due to their business activities, to pose a threat to the global economy.’
in writing.
measures included in the report should put an end to the excessive risk culture that led to bank bail-outs and bank collapses, and ensure a more sustainable banking model.
my london constituency is home to one of the largest fish markets in the world and, without reform of the cfp to make fishing in the eu sustainable for the long-term future, that business and livelihood will not be around for the thousands of people who depend on it.
when applying social and/or environmental standards, these must respect two points.
furthermore, it is essential to secure corporate social responsibility in free trade agreements in order to secure decent wages and safe places to work and to meet social and environmental standards.
mr president, i have supported many of the issues raised in the saïfi report, with its aim of achieving the sustainable and inclusive growth of all parties through, amongst other things, the transfer of technologies and skills, the development of new markets and related job opportunities.
i am uneasy, in particular, about the extension of already-strong social, labour and environmental provisions.
my group was able to amend some aspects of the report, putting more emphasis on green technology, recognising that developing countries suffer disproportionately in many financial disputes with investors, and including binding clauses on environmental, labour, and human rights standards.
sustainable development and capacity building are vital aspects of the development process for any country, and we should whole-heartedly support these efforts.
− i voted for this report as it emphasises the importance of promoting sustainable development and assistance with capacity building by the eu to specific african countries.
i am pleased that in one case – the european environment agency – the committee on budgetary control agreed with us in the ecr that discharge should be postponed.
he has said of this parliament – remember, he is a former commissioner – that it is not representative of dutch or european citizens any more, and is ‘living out a federal fantasy which is no longer sustainable’.
especially now, when national governments are tightening their belts, having only one seat for the european parliament would bring significant savings and set a better example on environmental issues.
having only one seat for the european parliament would bring significant savings and set a better example on environmental issues.
this is unacceptable, so i have voted against granting discharge to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators until all the irregularities are corrected and a positive statement of assurance is issued by the court of auditors.
− environment should be controlled by domestic law so that british citizens’/taxpayers’ money can be spent on issues in relation to this area in their own country.
this is unacceptable, so i have voted to postpone discharge for the european environment agency until all the irregularities are corrected and a positive statement of assurance is issued by the court of auditors.
− i voted to grant discharge to the european environment agency, noting that the agency had initiated the process to implement the court of auditors’ recommendations.
− i support the call, in this report, to the commission to explore all the options for a new long-term sustainable financing of the authority that safeguards its independence in the context of the next review of the agencies’ work and financing arrangements by the commission, which will be presented by 2 january 2014 at the latest.
− i voted against the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy as it demonstrates a lack of transparency and was not created with the consent of my voters or constituents.
in talking about turkey, i wonder whether you have ever made an assessment of the impact on the environment for your country of conferring on 73 million turkish citizens the absolute right to work, live and settle in france.
let us just remember: these long-term management plans are essential if we are to secure a sensible reform of the cfp and to put in place sustainable policies.
all the governments of the western world, and in particular those of the european union, are disconnecting from their own people and imposing policies on them which they do not want – like mass uncontrolled immigration and idiotic climate change legislation, which is destroying their economies.
the establishment of a visa free regime for ukrainian citizens travelling to eu countries should depend on the political climate of eu-ukraine relations.
accurate, reliable and comparable statistics are needed for good decision-making in the eu, the long term assessment of public spending, the monitoring of the sustainable development strategy and the monitoring of progress towards achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion.
− i was largely in favour of this proposal on ship recycling for its aim to reduce the environmental impact of ship recycling and make it safer for the workers involved.
this causes significant damage to the environment and health.
in wales the protection of the environment and recycling are key priorities so this is important.
− i welcome this report dealing with hazardous waste from ship scrapping.
according to the eu waste shipment regulation, the export of hazardous waste from the eu to non-oecd countries has been prohibited since 1998. this prohibition implements at european level the so-called ‘ban amendment’ to the basel convention (bc) on the control of transboundary movements of hazardous wastes and their disposal.
due to the manifold hazardous materials on board ships, any ship going from the eu for dismantling constitutes hazardous waste – and can thus currently only be dismantled legally within the oecd.
according to the commission’s impact assessment, ‘in 2009, more than 90 % of eu-flagged ships were indeed dismantled outside the oecd, mostly in south asia (india, pakistan and bangladesh) through the so-called ‘beaching’ method and with significant environmental and health impacts’.
finally, with a large bangladeshi community residing particularly in the east of my london constituency, i would like to reiterate that my abstention is based on this amendment and does not demean the importance i place on the safeguarding of the environmental and public health of the people residing in the developing countries affected by ship recycling.
recycling defunct vessels can be a hazardous occupation, with avoidable dangers – accidents, injuries, as well as health and environment issues – a frequent occurrence.
− the environmental and human cost of current ship recycling is inexcusable, which is why i supported this report calling for the eu to enforce much higher standards.
growth has brought significant cost reductions in renewable technology, especially for onshore wind and pv (photovoltaics).
we need to remember that it is the rise in gas prices that is responsible for two thirds of the increase that people see on their household energy bills.
but the fact remains that, unlike the emissions-trading scheme, and unlike carbon capture and storage, the renewables part of the climate package is on track.
some people have argued that we should just have one target for 2020 – a greenhouse gas target – and just leave the market to do the rest.
maybe the market would deliver eventually, but with the carbon price at around eur 3, the market is certainly not incentivising any low-carbon investment at the moment.
– mr pieper, how do you envisage the european emissions trading scheme incentivising low carbon technologies without any renewables target, given the current price for carbon and the reluctance of certain governments even to support a backloading proposal in support of that price?
the report also promotes higher environmental standards – as we have already heard from my good colleague – for the industry, although there remain some concerns over the future of the arctic, with which the eu has no natural geographical involvement.
we are also promoting greater use of renewable and low-carbon forms of energy, rather than relying too heavily upon oil and gas.
however, it is important that the european union makes use of its indigenous forms of energy, especially when it is in the form of a generator of so many thousands of jobs and allows millions access to energy which could otherwise cost far too much for them if we wait for things to be developed.
we have ended up with a workable directive that will ensure that all member states with offshore operations apply high environmental and safety standards.
this is a real step forward because it stops companies applying double standards on environmental protection.
more could be done of course, but i believe that this is a final text which significantly strengthens environmental protection in an intelligent way that builds on existing good practice.
what would that have done for our energy security?
i care about safety standards, and yes, i want to protect the environment too.
oil drilling is dangerous, but as part of a balanced energy policy we need it, and it needs decent, experienced oversight.
in my view the cost of energy is already too high in europe.
the vote will take place on wednesday, 22 may 2013. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by ria oomen-ruijten, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on an agenda for adequate, safe and sustainable pensions (2012/2234(ini)) (a7-0137/2013).
– mr president, tomorrow’s european council has a very worthy agenda and i welcome the fact that, for once, our leaders are seeking to tackle concrete issues like tax evasion and energy prices, in contrast to the commission who are wasting valuable resources on such causes as banning reusable olive oil bottles.
all i ask is that, in the interests of energy efficiency, maybe the last businessman to leave france will turn the lights off.
which brings me to the other topic of the summit, namely energy, because unless we produce a clear energy policy, lights will start to go out right across the eu – and let us not underestimate the consequences if we fail to grasp the growing problem of high energy prices.
there is no easy solution, but i believe the right place to start is with a thorough trawl through all eu policies, from climate policies, such as the emissions trading system, right through the financial services legislation.
if any of those policies have an inadvertent impact on energy prices or if they prevent major infrastructure investment, we should repeal them or reform them, because a single market in energy will be created only with enormous amounts of private sector capital for infrastructure, and that capital is currently not forthcoming.
secondly, i agree with markus beyer from business europe, who said recently that europe does not have an energy policy: it has only a climate policy.
we need both policies, and they need to be complementary rather than contradictory, which they are at the moment because too often our climate policies have pursued arbitrary targets and de-industrialisation.
this serves only to destroy jobs and to relocate energy-intensive industries to countries with poor or no environmental standards, which is neither good for the environment nor good for our economies and jobs.
yet, whilst we seek to create a stronger energy policy, we must also avoid the eu’s tendency towards a one-size-fits-all approach.
a sure way to make the lights go out in europe would be to follow the advice from mr cohn-bendit and close off all our avenues of energy production apart from wind and solar.
we could probably power a small town from the hot air generated by mr cohn-bendit in this chamber but that is not going to give us a proper energy policy.
presidents, you cannot grow an economy with expensive energy.
their obsession with global warming, which chimes very strongly here, means we are despoiling our landscapes and seascapes with these disgusting wind turbines and driving up energy prices.
on another subject, to talk about growth, jobs and competitiveness in the context of the eu’s energy policy is wildly optimistic.
renewable energy might well be a desirable ideal, but it is inefficient and expensive.
high energy costs will not create growth, jobs and competitiveness, they will destroy them.
suppliers of energy wishing to use fossil fuels are penalised financially, and those plants will eventually be closed down.
we must discard our prejudices against fossil fuels and against nuclear energy.
− i voted in favour of the report on regional strategies for industrial areas in the eu, as i agree that there is a need for public participation, a place-based approach, adaptation of skills for sustainable jobs, and responsibility of public and private bodies to provide for a healthy environment.
with energy policy, we can see coming up all of the worst aspects of the common fisheries policy.
the essential flaw of common ownership is that nobody has an incentive to treat the resource as renewable.
now the same thing is happening with our offshore energy.
it is true that some legislation on offshore oil and gas is better than none, but this report does not go anywhere near as far as it should in order to ensure the safety of people and the environment.
the eu has a legitimate interest in health, safety and environmental issues relating to the oil and gas industry – but oil and gas remain member state resources and this house has no right to dictate to individual nations where they can and cannot exploit those resources.
this recent environmental tragedy undoubtedly highlighted the need for a review of the eu’s existing framework for offshore oil safety.
i firmly believe that this directive is a positive step for both oil safety and the environment.
under this directive, licences for drilling will only be granted to companies who can demonstrate that they have enough money to repair any environmental damage.
mr president, this is yet another of those areas where, when you talk about the need for renewable energy – clean, sustainable energy for the future – many people across the political spectrum would agree it is a good thing in itself, whether or not one’s position on climate change is sceptical or in favour of it.
but the important thing to do is to make sure that we deliver it in a way that is also sustainable for our economies.
binding targets may sound wonderful in themselves but actually, if all they achieve at the end of the day is the de-industrialisation of europe and the loss of jobs in our constitutencies, how is that sustainable in the long term?
it is all very well asking for diversity in energy supplies here in parliament and in the commission, but what does the commission do for solar panels from china?
it slaps a massive import tariff, making solar panels more expensive and delaying the day when people will adapt and take up clean, sustainable solar energy.
− i voted against this report as i do not believe that the eu should be allowed to plan out the future of energy supplies in the uk, or indeed in other member states.
− the ecr members believe that renewable energy sources can contribute to our goals of energy security and diversification, as well as contributing to emissions reduction targets.
most importantly, article 194 tfeu enshrines a member state’s right to determine its own energy mix, therefore we cannot support calls for further binding renewable energy targets at eu level that would encroach upon this right.
it is also not prudent to commit ourselves legally to a renewable energy target where the investment costs – and, most importantly, the costs for consumers – are unclear and not credible.
since amendments calling for the introduction of mandatory renewable energy targets have been adopted, the ecr members voted against this report.
− i voted against this report as it rejects calls by greens/efa members to adopt a 40-45 % renewable energy target for 2030. it is clear that we cannot continue to use fossil fuels in the way that we have been and we must combat the problem of global warming and climate change by setting serious goals with regard to renewable energy.
not only will the use of renewable energy help the environment, but investing in renewables will create jobs and boost the economy.
plaid cymru’s policy for a national powerhouse for green energy would enable this to happen.
− i voted in favour of mandatory eu targets for 2030. scotland has some of the most ambitious climate change legislation in the world, but tackling climate change is clearly something that cannot be dealt with on a purely national basis.
− i voted for this resolution which ‘emphasises that safe, secure, affordable and sustainable energy provision is indispensable for the competitiveness of european industry and the economy; emphasises that approximately half of the power plants in the eu need to be replaced in the coming decade and that the energy supply system needs to be modernised and made more flexible to accommodate the expected growing share of res; highlights that the share of res in electricity, heating and cooling and transport needs to be increased in a manner that is cost-efficient, taking into account the benefits and full costs of res, including system costs, while safeguarding supply security; acknowledges the increasing competitiveness of renewable energy technologies and stresses that res and clean-tech related industries are important growth drivers for europe’s competitiveness, representing an enormous job creation potential and making an important contribution to the development of new industries and export markets’.
− it is absolutely vital for my constituents in london that a binding 2030 target for renewables in the energy mix of between 40 % and 45 % was retained in this report.
− i support this as i feel it is now vital to emphasise and support energy technology and renewable energy.
− the north sea, connected to the historic thames river in my london constituency, is a prime example of the benefits that regional cooperation can have in relation to renewable energy supplies.
however, while this report justly recognises the importance of the continued diversification of energy supplies in order to enhance our energy security, i strongly reject the amendments calling for the introduction of mandatory national targets for 2030. primarily, i rebuff these amendments on the basis that price competition is fundamental to a well-functioning energy market and an eu-wide support system for renewable energy would undoubtedly jeopardise this.
ultimately, i do not believe that the introduction of mandatory national targets would be the best way of facilitating a european low-carbon economy while keeping industry costs at sustainable levels.
− i supported this own initiative report as i believe that renewable energy has an important role to play in the eu’s internal energy market.
it is also key to securing energy supplies and competitiveness, and it goes without saying that renewable energy is vital if we are to meet environmental targets.
i supported an amendment put down by labour meps for the commission to come forward with a binding renewable energy target by 2030 and i pleased that meps supported this.
renewable energy can also help us to create jobs and growth in the eu and by carrying out more research we will be able to create industrial development, more advanced technology and as a result, job creation.
− this own initiative report looks at the challenges and opportunities for renewable energy in the eu’s internal energy market and calls for more investment to ensure that we have the technology and infrastructure to ensure renewable energy can play an increasing role in supplying the eu’s energy needs.
labour meps and our colleagues in the parliament have led the call for binding 2030 renewable energy targets and i am delighted that the amendment we supported has been included in the final report.
i hope the commission will take notice of the opinion of meps, who have recognised that investment in renewable energy has the potential to protect the environment, generate jobs and growth in europe and ensure the eu’s continued energy security.
− i voted for this report, which ‘notes with concern that women’s employment rates in the western balkan countries remain very low; points out that supporting equal opportunities policies is important for the economic and social development of the balkan accession countries; calls on the governments to introduce measures in order to reduce the gender pay gap and, consequently, the gender pension gap and to tackle high unemployment rates, focusing in particular on women, especially those in rural areas; invites the governments of the countries in the balkans to establish a legal framework for equal pay for equal work for both sexes, to assist women in reconciling private and professional life, to secure better working conditions, lifelong learning, flexible work schedules and in addition to create an environment which stimulates female entrepreneurship’.
the european agenda for adequate, safe and sustainable pensions for both young and old which is presented in the white paper is an excellent starting point for discussion, after which reforms can be implemented by means of ‘soft law’, and also by means of legislation where necessary.
preserving that single rule book approach in an environment which has caused many financial supervisors to look inwards is going to be a difficult task in the coming years.
furthermore, it acknowledges that environmental taxation is the key to implementing ‘polluter pays’ principles and is among the most growth-friendly.
i voted in favour of this report as there is no need to hold a convention on such a small change, a convention would simply be a waste of money.
i voted in favour of this report as there is no need to hold a convention on such a small change, a convention would simply be a waste of money.
we subsidise wind turbines that ruin the countryside and push up energy prices.
rules ending financial risks and rules on keeping environmental and labour standards high are all up for grabs in a discussion between two equal giants in the world.
secondly, we do not believe that isds should in any way be allowed to limit public space for development of health, social, environmental and other policies.
− i voted in favour of this report because i believe progress in burma remains fragile and it is important that the measures adopted today will contribute to a sustainable peace and a positive development.
− i voted in favour of this because while this clarity is necessary, i entirely disagree with the principle that businesses from developed countries can challenge legislation on public health, environmental standards or labour rights.
welcome progress is being made, but there is still some way to go in fostering a climate of stability, tolerance and reconciliation.
− the agreement as it stands is very narrowly focused on trade and investment, and brings back to the table many things that have been dismissed in the past; some examples would be the freedom to import gmo products; the us belief that data protection is bad for business; acta and the whole area of intellectual property rights; the state-investor dispute settlement system whereby a company can sue a state for lost revenue if legislation, environmental or otherwise, would affect business.
i believe a macro-region of the alps would not only improve the functionality of existing structures but also ensure the sustainable implementation of european legislation and of the europe 2020 strategy.
sustainable development and progress is a priority for us in wales, and believe it is important for us to face the challenges of the future together with other regions of europe in a way that will help the economy and also the environment.
naturally, this small victory for common sense was not based on the commission or the environment committee scaling back their ambition, but on the successful lobbying of essna, a small but dynamic alliance of sports nutrition companies made up of two dozen small but innovative companies – primarily from the uk – which export sports drinks and protein bars.
britain’s government should not be allowed to waste this opportunity to match them by helping feed the most hungry ....... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing.
this will prevent fishing being concentrated in particular areas, resulting in more discards and more waste.
− as a report that is designed to help preserve cod-stocks and making fishing in our waters sustainable, i am happy to support it.
− against i oppose this report as i find it completely unacceptable to waste taxpayers’ money on the procedure of waiving immunity in relation to a minor road offence (ignoring a ‘no left turn’ sign and crossing a double white line).
it is also right that children are protected from harm in the digital environment.
− i voted in favour of the report on european consumer policy, which focuses on consumer interests and in particular highlights problems in the food chain, energy transport, and digital and financial services sectors.
− i voted for this report as i believe ensuring food safety, health, energy, and financial and digital products should have top priority in the european consumer agenda.
there is a need for a consumer agenda that reduces inequalities among consumers in europe and contributes to a low-carbon economy.
what we need to do is make sure that we create the right environment where all those systems can coexist peacefully.
as a result fishermen will continue to suffer but, as stecf pointed out, the cod stock will continue to suffer, thus further highlighting yet again that, despite all of the talk about promotion of sustainable fisheries in this place, especially in the past few weeks in relation to the cfp, it is politics that take precedence over actual pragmatic and sustainable fisheries policy.
this will prevent fishing being concentrated in particular areas resulting in more discards and more waste.
− i support this report because of its proposals to implement a discard ban, reduce cod catches and retain sustainable catches of target species.
if we are to develop sustainable fishing and preserve fish stocks in our waters for the future, we must take these tough decisions on fishing now.
in a period of economic and social crisis, all resources deviated from legal activity must be recovered and directed to the real economy supporting legal, decent and sustainable work.
i was particularly keen to highlight the importance of energy efficiency improvements to social and affordable housing for people on low incomes.
i also welcome the emphasis on energy efficiency.
a plan to improve the social housing sector can also help the eu over the economic, social, and environmental crisis, through house building and retrofitting with energy saving measures.
− i voted for this report which ‘notes that, as a result of the current economic and social crisis, on its own the market is increasingly incapable of meeting the need for affordable homes, in particular in densely populated urban areas, and that rising housing and energy costs are aggravating the risks of disease, poverty and social exclusion; notes the increase in several member states in the number of evictions and properties seized by banks; urges that measures be taken in response to these challenges; is concerned about both the direct and the indirect impact of some austerity measures in the context of the current social and economic crisis – such as cuts in housing benefit and social services, the taxation of social housing providers, the cancellation of new housing projects and the selling off of parts of national social housing stocks – which could exacerbate a vicious circle of long-term social exclusion and segregation’.
− with soaring property prices, expensive energy bills and continuing pressure on social spending, many of my london constituents are painfully aware of the ongoing struggle to find affordable, decent housing in britain.
madam president, in today’s economic climate it is proving extremely difficult for young men and women alike to enter the labour market.
in that pursuit, we should be delivering a system which is fair, compassionate and principled, but also one which is practical, sustainable and adaptable.
in october 2011, i presented to you, on behalf of the commission, a package of measures to support entrepreneurship, but also to empower european companies in social, environmental, economic and financial terms.
that is how we will build more sustainable growth together.
in this spirit, i would like to invite parliament to work closely with the council and i will contribute to this dialogue so that we can reach agreement as soon as possible, if possible before the end of the year or at the latest before the end of this parliamentary term, on the basis of the proposal i made last april on corporate social and environmental responsibility.
this could bring real benefits but at the same time we needed to ensure concerns were taken into account when it came to environmental issues and making sure it really did bring benefits to consumers.
i think this is the way forward and, as you know, i take a very big interest in your investigations into the energy sector.
illegal unreported and non-regulated fishing is bad for the industry and bad for the environment.
what we can do is say that we will tear up the legislation that discourages work, that drives up energy prices, that ties entrepreneurs and businesses down in bureaucracy and that closes our markets.
in every member state there is a majority of people who are against the waste of money involved in this monthly peregrination between two seats.
the reason nothing happens is because of what milton friedman calls ‘the tyranny of the status quo’, the sheer volume of vested interests which have grown up around the established dispensation from the authorities of the two towns, down to the removal men and lorry drivers who bring the empty trunks – or empty but for the occasional wash-bag or rattling pair of shoes – back and forth every month in that huge fleet of lorries emitting all the carbon emissions which we are always lecturing everybody else about.
on the one hand we talk about cutting co2 emissions, yet on the other we are perfectly happy to maintain two parliaments and come here once a month, with all the waste of co2 emissions that involves.
we talk about better use of resources and even ask for an increase in the budget, yet we waste money on maintaining this parliament here.
mr president, here in the eu we spend large amounts of our time, energy and resources setting out a myriad of complicated rules on the governance of fishing activities in our own european waters and beyond through a series of complicated agreements with non-eu states.
if you look at successful sustainability in the falkland islands, in iceland, in norway, in new zealand, they are based on the principle of private ownership.
the more laws and the more quotas and the more intrusive regulation we have had in north sea waters, the more we have eliminated the fish stocks and left empty and sterile the oceans that once contained a great renewable resource.
surely we should learn the lessons of a free market solution to the sustainability of fishing stocks, rather than relying on a policy of 1950s communist central planning, which has actually led to failure.
but it is caught by disregarding environmental, social and other standards and the fishermen can usually sell it for less money.
fishing is a vital part of trade in london, unsustainable fishing is damaging to the environment, our trade and our children’s future.
i support this report because we have to put sustainability at the heart of our action, both for fish caught in our waters and for fish caught in other waters.
− i voted for this report as it emphasises the pressing issue to put sustainable fishing as our priority, not only in eu waters but also for fish caught in waters outside of the eu.
i do not believe emergency provisions should ever be considered by policymakers as a sustainable or permanent solution to the effect of poverty.
the funds are there to support food production and increasingly to support the environment.
i was in turkey myself when the protests began, and what an energy, what an inspiration i witnessed in cities and towns across turkey, not only in istanbul: turks unifying against the effects of this government on their modern secular lives.
the financial climate has the consequence that the uk is closing down embassies and consulates.
climate change was a far-off concern and far from being a mainstream political issue as it is today.
the current mdgs do not, however, sufficiently address the root causes of poverty, such as inequalities within and among countries, as well as issues such as social exclusion, biodiversity and governance.
by that i mean understanding that global public goods will include international trade, environmental and financial architecture within the context of global governance.
we need a more holistic approach reflecting the outcome of the rio+20 conference on sustainable development, and we need to develop the concept of development effectiveness: a combination of development aid, assistance for the provision of global goods and adaptation of governance structure.
so if we can change the way we approach our development poverty elimination programmes to create the conditions for economic growth in our developing country partners, we will succeed in creating that unique combination of self-sustainable growth and poverty elimination.
in that context i would like to point to the vital role of energy and electricity in taking people out of absolute poverty.
we have heard commissioner peibalgs speak of sustainability, but unfortunately when we use the word ‘sustainable’ in this house we actually mean ‘unsustainable’.
i am tired to death of hearing the proposition that poor people are most vulnerable to climate change: nonsense!
poor people are most vulnerable to our policies designed to mitigate climate change; they will suffer if we do not make sure they have cheap and plentiful energy.
there are many good points in the agreement, including some strong wording on achieving the mdgs, guaranteeing food security, policy coherence for development, sustainable fisheries, recognising the african union and regional integration, as well as the role of local authorities and civil society, but we do have some concerns.
mr neuser spoke about possibilities for cooperation and about how we have seen climate change and global warming gradually climbing up the political agenda.
ms gabriel, thank you again for your support and for highlighting the multi-dimensional approach and the role of epas in regional integration and how we need to take account of this in the revision for 2020. my dear colleague mr ertug talked of sustainable development and poverty reduction and of the importance of addressing tax havens.
let us look at what we need to do in our own countries about things that are preventing sustainable development and poverty reduction, and arguably too about openness and transparency in tax matters.
political dialogue with the atlantic basin region is important to tackle cross-border issues such as human trafficking, the illegal drugs trade and environmental protection.
the report also outlines that atlantic countries need to be involved in the effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and i agree that action needs to be taken in this area.
− i supported this report which reiterates the parliament's commitments to poverty eradication and sustainable development in the post-2015 development agenda.
the port state control directive deals with the enforcement side of international conventions, giving port states a clear role to play in ensuring compliance with international standards for safety, pollution prevention and on-board living and working conditions: hence the need to put in place a robust port state control system for the maritime labour convention of 2006 so that the maritime labour standards are applied on board all ships calling at eu ports.
as i think we all know, substandard ships are unacceptable, both in terms of workers’ rights, ships’ safety and security and with regard to environmental protection.
it will in turn help to maintain and improve the safety and the environmental performance of the shipping industry.
we are doing a lot to raise the safety and environmental standards of vehicles at manufacture, but we need to make sure that they are maintained through the life of the vehicle.
mr president, here we have more legislation from the eu sausage machine to waste uk civil servants’ time and confuse citizens.
as one of the survivors said: ‘piper has never left me; it was yesterday and will always be yesterday.’ that is why we should always support the highest standards in health and safety, especially in the off-shore environment.
we are doing it through the misconstruction of the euro, through the obsession with global warming and the over-regulated business model.
i am paid by the european parliament and what i am doing – just as the scottish national party do, and just as the irish nationalists in the 19th century did – is using that money to expose the waste, the fraud and the extent to which our countries are now governed by these chambers.
the european council wants to improve growth and competitiveness, but the eu’s energy policy pushes up energy costs, making industry less competitive.
international nuclear liability is governed by two instruments: the vienna convention and the paris convention on third party liability in the field of nuclear energy of 1960. both conventions share similar principles on substance.
the vienna convention was adopted to provide adequate and fair compensation to victims of damage caused by nuclear accident, by setting up a special system of civil liability in the field of nuclear energy.
i am, of course, referring in particular to the emissions trade mechanism, where we need a global agreement, and we need to be speaking with one voice with the international civil aviation organization to get it.
− i welcome this report which “underlines the importance – in the context of the scale of member states’ export credit activities – of recital 4 of regulation 1233/2011, calling for compliance with the union’s general provisions on external action, such as consolidating democracy, respect for human rights and policy coherence for development, and the fight against climate change; recalls, in this sense, the importance of the specific reporting requirements formulated in annex i of the regulation to ensure that the commission and parliament are able to make an assessment of this compliance”.
− this proposal as a part of the roadworthiness package aims at supporting and enforcing roadworthiness testing of motor vehicles with a view to enhancing road safety and environmental protection.
before a vehicle is allowed to be put on the market, it has to fulfil all the relevant type or individual approval requirements guaranteeing an optimal level of safety and environmental standards.
the aim of the roadworthiness package is to harmonise standards and testing regimes across the eu and to contribute to the eu’s target of halving road deaths by 2020. as well as enhancing road safety, improving the roadworthiness of vehicles can help to reduce air pollution levels.
by setting these minimum standards, the aim of the roadworthiness package is to improve environmental protection and road safety, contributing to the eu’s target of halving road deaths by 2020. although i supported the package overall, i joined other labour meps in voting in favour of an amendment to exempt caravans and trailers below 3.5 tonnes from the rules on the basis that this would be an additional financial burden for families and businesses, while having a very limited impact on road safety.
i am glad that the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has managed to negotiate a positive outcome to this important report on water policy, but i would have preferred that a file as complicated and scientifically technical as this had started from a more solid scientific and evidence base.
earlier plans to include limits on three pharmaceutical products were dropped after concerns were raised that the environmental benefit was unclear and the proposals would have incurred significant costs for water companies; for the time being these will be placed on a watch list.
the marine environment is a key asset in terms of biodiversity, recreation, tourism and the transportation of goods and services to and from our ports.
opportunities for sustainable growth in this sector have been well documented, as well as the potential for fishermen to use their assets and experience to exploit opportunities in other developing offshore industries.
it must be said that while i am undoubtedly in favour of creating sustainable economic growth and employment in the marine and maritime economy, i simply cannot support a report which strives so strongly for a top-down approach.
however, i regret that the report presents the view that the marine environment is only a section for consideration within blue growth, instead of presenting a healthy marine ecosystem as a fundamental prerequisite within which any other sectoral ‘blue’ policies operate.
whilst amendments which called for a ban on arctic oil and gas exploration, and for ship emission limits, were not supported in tran, most of the report is fine, underlining the importance of key issues for the green/efa group: smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, based on an eco-system approach; using the precautionary principle to assess proposals; protecting sustainable maritime sea basin strategy and developing island and coastal tourism.
the report goes on to call for the development of opportunities for ‘clean ships’ that are more energy-efficient and produce less emissions, the construction of a north sea offshore grid for renewable energy, more efficient use of resources and enhanced recycling policies (as an alternative to sea mining), and notes the employment opportunities this approach presents.
the promotion of nautical and maritime careers needs is important if we are to get skilled workers to carry out jobs in the sector, such as blue energy, aquaculture, tourism and marine mineral extraction.
mr president, ‘innovating for sustainable growth: a bioeconomy for europe’ is a laudable objective, as it is estimated that 22 million people in the eu are employed directly in the bioeconomy.
i am not against the bioeconomy playing a role in fighting climate change per se.
it goes without saying that it is essential that we wean ourselves off our dangerous addiction to fossil fuels, but we cannot say a resounding ‘yes’ to it without ensuring that it actually does contribute to lowering our carbon emissions in a sustainable manner.
this poses a significant risk to the world’s forests and their biodiversity, and it creates a risk of new land grabs.
mr president, i am sure that every member of this house would support the growth of a sustainable and economically viable bioeconomy.
protection of this environment is absolutely vital.
far too often farmers have to contend with policies from these institutions which are contradictory and not suited to the local environment or local farming practices.
− fossil fuels are damaging and we need to focus on developing more sustainable forms of energy.
that is why i voted in favour of this report, which states that the transition to a bioeconomy should be based on the sustainable use of those resources from an environmental, economic and social point of view.
the government of wales is committed to sustainable development, although wales does not yet have the necessary powers over energy development.
the constant increase in the world population, the rocketing growth of demand for food and energy and the scarcity of natural resources worldwide mean that europe will have to reflect on the new approach to take in terms of production and consumption, in order to deal with these new requirements efficiently and sustainably.
the bioeconomy is a major opportunity to meet those challenges by ensuring not only greater sustainability but also support for rural development, a potential reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, improved sustainability of the production cycle and the spread of industrial innovation along the entire value chain the bioeconomy strategy could be the solution to our dependence on fossil fuels and the road towards smart growth.
but to regain the trust of our people we need to deliver sustainable growth.
our climate policies should be based on a careful assessment of their impact on the competitiveness of our industries.
the lithuanian presidency will lead the eu's preparations for the annual un climate change conference this year, which should allow us to make progress towards reaching a new global agreement by 2015. a serious commitment by all countries at global level is essential to ensure that competitiveness and environment policies complement and do not contradict each other.
just as an example, let's take energy.
according to the commission, if the european union becomes a fully integrated market, it could save as much as eur 35 billion a year in electricity alone by 2015, in comparison with 2012. today, our citizens and businesses pay far too much for their energy.
the lack of an internal market in energy opens up an energy security vacuum.
which is why the parliament, the council and the commission recently agreed on rapid action to address these energy challenges.
we agreed that the internal energy market must be completed by 2014 and that no member state of the european union should still be isolated from european gas and electricity networks by 2015. this commitment must remain the cornerstone of our energy agenda.
we shall closely monitor the proper implementation of previously agreed measures and legal frameworks, including the third energy package in particular.
but it is also lithuania's firm conviction that more funds need to be directed towards creating a modern energy infrastructure across the european union.
we will also work to develop the external dimension of the european union's energy policy, an essential element for completion of the internal energy market.
as long as the internal market in energy, services and the digital economy remains incomplete, european citizens will have reason to question the value of the union.
there is no time to waste, and there is a lot of work on the table.
we support the fact that the lithuanian presidency has made completion of the internal energy market by 2014 one of its first priorities.
i know, president grybauskaitė, your personal commitment to this file and how important is the work that we have been pursuing to do everything we can to avoid the baltic countries being seen as an energy island in the european union.
i think it is important to note that the commission will report on developments in this field, the internal energy market, already in early 2014. so your focus comes at the right time.
so, following its commitments in the blueprint for a deep and genuine economic and monetary union as well as in the two-pack, the commission has explored further ways within the preventive arm of the stability and growth pact to accommodate non-recurrent public investment programmes with a proven impact on the sustainability of public finances made by the member states in the assessment of their stability and convergence programmes.
on climate action, the commission will come with a proposal on the 2030 framework for energy and climate policies before the end of the year.
we know that people are disillusioned, and we have to prove that the eu is essential to maintain peace and to enable us to tackle the economic, social and climate crises.
on energy policy we have set energy efficiency targets and we should give priority to achieving them as one of the easiest ways to help achieve energy independence.
we need growth, so why do our policies on energy, the environment and employment make us less competitive, not more?
mr president, i voted in favour of the back-loading proposal to enable a one-off change to the timing of auctions for the eu emissions trading scheme (ets).
it must be said that the emissions trading scheme has been an unmitigated failure as part of the eu’s climate policy.
the unending new records for low carbon prices needs to be addressed and uncertainty averted.
the carbon prices have now reached an all time low of eur 4, whereas at this stage the price should be around eur 30. whilst i completely disagree with the ets, as an inappropriate tool to fight climate change, we unfortunately have to work with what we have.
it is a shame that this report does not go further, but the time pressure for climate change is too great and we need to act now by withholding these units of co2.
mr president, i voted for this essential change to the ets scheme and i hope it will attempt to put a floor back in the carbon market.
this is essential if we are to support uk companies who are investing in renewable technologies of the future.
the whole point of the emissions trading scheme was to create a way for the market to set a price on carbon emissions and thereby use market tools to aid environmental priorities.
− i did not vote on any of the amendments since there was no voting option to reject the granting of authority for the commission to extract payments for emissions.
either for current emissions or for earlier emissions, ‘backloading’, or for both.
− i am delighted that this house has today voted in favour of backloading and that we are now back on track to implementing meaningful emissions trading.
the measure aims to restore the incentive effect of the emissions trading system, which is designed to cut greenhouse gas emissions and tackle climate change.
− the emissions trading scheme (ets) has helped to make europe a world leader in fighting climate change.
however, the reduction in industrial output since the economic downturn, combined with an earlier over-allocation of carbon credits, has led to a dramatic drop in the price of carbon and means the scheme is now in danger of collapse.
this report allows the commission to temporarily withhold some permits, with the aim of pushing the price of carbon back up and thereby getting the scheme back on track.
a higher price of carbon would be an incentive for investment in clean, low-carbon technology, which is vital if we are serious about tackling climate change.
the revised report that was adopted today will allow the commission to delay the release of permits but adds certain safeguards, such as setting a limit of 900 million allowances that can be held back and measures to provide extra support for energy-intensive industries and for a transition to a low-carbon economy.
i commend the structures that are already in place to coordinate and control communicable diseases across the european union and i am pleased that the commission is striving to formalise and regulate these structures now to include biological, chemical and environmental threats.
as sickness and disease transcend all national borders, it is vital that member states have a coordinated approach to prevention and response planning in the event of future pandemics and environmental disasters.
this report will help member states prepare for and protect citizens against possible future pandemics and environmental disasters.
the rules would apply to an outbreak of an infectious disease, such as the 2009 swine flu pandemic, but have also been extended to cover threats of chemical or environmental origin, for example radiation.
as the committee on the environment, public health and food safety’s contact point with the ecdc, i know first-hand the valuable work the centre does in preventing communicable diseases across the continent.
in wales, i hear a great deal of criticism of waste in the budgetary system of the eu, so we have to take every opportunity to ensure it is effective.
copyright, which is historically based on territoriality, is thus challenged by the digital environment, which ignores borders.
− my party opposes this move as it does little more than waste taxpayers’ money in an attempt to get better access to caucasian natural resources and to create a stronger eu presence in the region.
− while i still hold huge concerns about human rights in the region, the current situation shows that eu involvement in egypt is a complete waste of both eu effort and taxpayers’ money.
the current policy has objectives in place to 2020. the fuel quality directive and the renewable energy directive set in train actions and investments across industry and agriculture in europe.
i find the package from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety hopelessly complicated and there is a real danger of producing a piece of regulatory nonsense if we are not careful.
it is absolutely essential that we reduce our greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector.
it is extremely important that we facilitate production by arable farmers across the european union in order to meet the challenges of a growing global population and ensure that the demand is met for food, feed and fuel markets while concurrently ensuring legitimate protection for the environment.
many say that this is all in aid of fighting so-called global warming due to man-made carbon emissions.
this is increasingly discredited as a climate theory.
the eu’s biofuel policy has been mostly influenced by the 10% targets set for the renewable transport fields.
it has become clear that it is now necessary to take indirect land-use change factors into account when calculating the greenhouse gas emissions savings attributable to biofuels.
i have been contacted by hundreds of constituents – as i am sure many other members have too – concerned about the devastating effects certain biofuels could have on fuel prices, carbon emissions and land-use rights for indigenous peoples, and i have to say i share those concerns, as do ngos and many others.
it is essential that, if used to meet a renewable target, they must fulfil the carbon emissions reduction and social responsibility requirements expected of them.
in the meantime we should be encouraging the use of truly renewable energy and energy efficiency in the area of transport.
this is particularly relevant and important amid press rumours and speculation that we are now seeing manipulation in energy markets – in the oil and gas sector – as well as potential manipulation in foreign exchange markets.
these savings have encouraged me to support the creation of rules to govern which court should have jurisdiction to deal with such disputes, and which law should apply, with a mechanism put in place for the recognition and enforcement of court judgements throughout the eu
mr president, in all sectors across the eu, maximising our research and innovation potential means we can deliver competitive, high-quality and sustainable services, and the transport sector is no exception.
– i voted for this report because it will help develop a sustainable and effective transport network in wales.
technology has a huge role to play in helping transport improve its economic, environmental and social objectives.
i hope to see a significant reduction in accidents, noise, energy consumption, gas emissions and climate impact because of eu initiatives such as those in the ini report.
the welsh economy needs to be regenerated and to do that we have to adopt development which is secure and sustainable.
mr president, as a british member talking about making the internal energy market for the eu work, i must say that my own member state has fully embraced its eu partners when it comes to the supply of energy.
in my own constituency of wales, rwe, a german company, recently spent gbp 450 million on non-renewable energy generation and a further billion pounds on a state-of-the-art gas power station in pembrokeshire.
most of the uk’s energy network is now operated by non-british firms.
i voted against this report as the eu should, quite simply, not be allowed to determine the energy market’s infrastructure – according to the free market principle, business and industry can do that perfectly well.
the eu should not intervene in internal market measures, such as pipelines, and should promote the diversification of energy resources.
– i voted against the calls in this report for an eu energy level.
the internal market in energy is important for all our nations and the eu must do its best to make it work.
the eu’s efforts should not however extend to their gaining powers over taxation on energy; that must remain a member state competence.
− i voted in favour of this report because i believe our energy markets are perhaps overpriced and also poorly interconnected and not sufficiently transparent, so consumers have too little understanding of the options they have.
to make europe more competitive, we need secure, stable and affordable energy.
consumers must be able to pay less for energy and must know where their energy bills come from.
− i was happy to support this report for my london constituents as it will result in security of supply, lower energy costs for consumers and industry, and a more sustainable economy.
− i voted in favour of this report, which highlights that consumers' interests should be at the heart of energy policy.
it is vitally important that energy poverty is tackled at european and national level and ensuring sustainability and affordability is also crucial.
the report calls for small scale energy production and the involvement of cooperatives to be promoted.
with energy prices increasing and proving to be an added burden for many households throughout the eu, including in wales, it is important that consumers are made more aware of their energy options so that they can make informed choices that will save them money in the future.
however, as outlined in today’s report, strategic use of european structural and investment funds could drive private investment in energy efficiency across europe and support member states in their efforts to increase their energy efficiency.
the most successful and effective initiatives will, i believe, be those that complement member states’ individual efforts to increase energy efficiency with targeted investments of eu funds that contribute to overall growth and job creation within our individual regions.
i voted against this report as the whole of the energy efficiency measures under the cohesion policy are nothing more than drain on taxpayers’ money – and here we are again, asking them to contribute more to a fund that has, to date, not been proved effective.
− i support all the necessary and efficient measures to be taken in order to make sure that the europe 2020 targets can be achieved and consider that energy efficiency measures via cohesion policy represent the greatest potential for this target.
it looks at the important issue of energy efficiency measures in cohesion policy and assesses the results of measures in place in the current programming period.
the report also proposes important recommendations to strengthen the impact of energy efficiency measures in the next round of funding.
ensuring that energy efficiency measures are fully implemented within cohesion policy is vital to helping achieve eu2020 targets.
– this report urges the coastal states of the adriatic-ionian basin to cooperate in order to achieve sustainability in their respective fishing industries.
− this report supports the goal of achieving above maximum sustainable yield, something that is crucial for the future of london fish markets.
i believe that rather than banning the option to bet online, which in my opinion is an overreaction and not justified by evidence, we should concentrate instead on the protection of consumers in the online environment, which is a fast-developing industry.
as recently as july, the court of auditors reported eur 3 billion of waste in road construction projects.
it is so important to develop an entrepreneurial culture and an environment that is conducive to starting a business.
and recent figures in the uk show that in three months the number of young people unemployed reduced by 43 000. training which responds to real market need, coupled with an open and dynamic business environment, must be the key to reducing youth unemployment.
it is caused by high energy costs because of the eu’s mad dash for renewables.
the eu’s energy costs are between twice and four times those of the united states.
i would also like to make an important point of order, mr president, which is that i am disappointed that my committee – which was responsible for this resolution on cybersecurity, signed by members of my committee – was not allowed the five minutes’ speaking time that my colleague mr rohde used so elegantly in presenting the resolution by the committee on industry, research and energy.
we should have article 10 of the echr applying to journalism, media freedom and a good environment in the european union for media freedom.
mr president, the lough neagh eel fishery in my constituency is both the largest commercial wild eel fishery in europe and the most sustainable.
lough neagh fishermen’s cooperative has developed the most sustainable eel fishery in europe: all involved recognise the importance of conserving eel stocks and apply additional regulations ensuring sustainable fishing practices.
you keep telling us, mr barroso, that climate change is an absolute top priority and you have been greeted with near-hysteria in this place over the last 10 years.
we may have made one of the biggest and most stupid collective mistakes in history by getting so worried about global warming.
you all formed the view that carbon dioxide emissions were leading to rapid global warming and that it was the greatest crisis that has ever faced mankind, and therefore we had to start taxing carbon.
there has been no global warming, sir, for twenty years.
the ice caps have grown significantly over the last twelve months, and i am making a positive proposal that would put back into work tens of thousands of people, and i am saying: let us scrap these climate levies and let us see where the science goes over the course of the next few years.
the financial markets may be recovering and the experts may be more optimistic about the eu economy, but if you step outside the bubble, you will see the true consequences of austerity: living, social and working standards dropping; ordinary people feeling the pain; exploitation by predatory employers using zero-hour contracts; a massive rise in food banks and the need for aid across the eu, while energy prices rise and unemployment remains cripplingly high.
− i voted against this report as i am against parliament and the eu environment agency having a right to do anything, even exist.
my party is against the vast majority of measures central to this directive – greenhouse gas emissions, carbon capture, the 2020 targets, the use of biofuels, the pseudo-calculation of co2 life cycles and the introduction of more targets and restrictions, to name but a few.
this report provides the bare minimum: we voted to include indirect land use change (iluc) factors reflecting the climate impact due to displacement of food production of different feedstocks on greenhouse gas accounting from 2020, and adopted a cap of 6 % on land-based biofuels including energy crops as a safeguard for 2020. my group opposed the 10 % biofuels target when it was first proposed, but found no majority in the ep.
– in today’s vote on the fuel quality directive and renewable energy directive i supported double counting on cooking oil and animal fats.
i firmly believe that these substances should come under the 2.5 % sub-target, as completely excluding them from the target would be a missed opportunity to further help with tackling environmental issues in scotland.
there are some challenges associated with the increased use and growing of biofuels, but this report addresses these and will make the spread of biofuels more sustainable.
− labour meps voted in favour of measures to limit the use of biofuels from food crops and for iluc factors to be introduced to ensure that only sustainable biofuels count towards eu targets.
once again they have let the country down on environmental issues.
− labour meps voted in favour of measures to limit the use of biofuels from food crops and for iluc factors to be introduced to ensure that only sustainable biofuels count towards eu targets.
switching to biofuels whose greenhouse gas emissions are no better or even worse than conventional fuels makes no sense and is having a negative impact on world food prices and fuelling land-grab problems in developing countries.
− i have voted in favour of this directive because i believe in working towards a sustainable future.
i am pleased to see that target shares for renewable energy of 20% of overall eu energy consumption have been put in place.
i agree that incentives should be provided to stimulate the use of electricity from renewable sources in the transport sector, and also believe that energy efficiency and energy saving measures in the transport sector should be encouraged.
− i voted in favour of this report, which amends the current law on renewable energy and fuel quality.
the current legislationʼs targets on the proportion of energy that should come from biofuels has led to indirect land use change (iluc), which sees more land turned over to agricultural production in order to meet the demand for crops that can be used as biofuels.
this leads to a loss of habitats and biodiversity and rising food prices, which in turn means that increasing numbers of people cannot afford to eat.
the report will impose a cap on the proportion of our energy that can come from crop-based biofuels and will ensure that increased emissions as a result of iluc are taken into account when calculating the potential greenhouse gas savings of biofuels.
the aim is to achieve good governance, security and stability, sustainable development and poverty alleviation.
for armenia this is tragic, but the russian threats to supply arms to azerbaijan and destabilise the fragile peace in nagorno-karabakh, and to raise energy prices, left this small country with little choice.
mr president, at times when we seek a solution to some of these environmental problems we find ourselves looking at the one-size-fits-all solution from eu level rather than looking at solutions closer to home.
as one of my colleagues said earlier, it has been estimated in the uk that 30% of energy could come from micro-generation.
maybe we could see more riverside properties starting to generate more of their own energy, and work on harnessing tidal energy as well.
at the same time we see more and more street furniture being powered by solar energy.
− i voted against this report as eu energy policy is quite simply a generic disaster in all areas.
− i believe that in order for the eu to meet its renewable energy targets, microgeneration needs to be a vital element in the future of energy generation.
i acknowledge how microgeneration has contributed to the increase in the overall share of renewables in the eu energy mix.
whilst i appreciate that a successful incorporation of microgeneration in the internal european energy market will be reliant on factors such as technical development of microgeneration units, the deployment of a smart energy infrastructure, and various schemes which incentivise microgeneration at all levels, i am confident that microgeneration will help bring us closer to our renewable energy targets.
− i voted in favour of this resolution, which reiterates that the eu’s cyber-security policy should provide a secure and reliable digital environment.
this report called for the creation of a favourable business environment for smes within the cultural and creative sector and for their administrative and regulatory burdens to be reduced.
because it seems to me that the high-water mark for dealing with climate change in this parliament, and in the european union, was towards the end of 2007, and that since then we have been trying to cling on to our ambitions and finding it more and more difficult to see them implemented.
and now we come to the point where the committee on the environment, of all bodies, cannot even agree on a report on this issue.
but we had already agreed on the 25 % target when we dealt with the low-carbon roadmap and it has often been said by the commissioner that we are probably on target to reach 25 % anyway, without additional measures.
environmentalists look to the committee on industry and perhaps the epp and treat them with suspicion, and too many members of the committee on industry look at the committee on the environment in the same way – and the common ground just disappears.
however, i hear many members of the epp, many members of the committee on industry, saying that we have to tackle the problem of global warming.
we have to deal with co2 emissions and there has got to be common ground here.
there have got to be more opportunities for ensuring that business can succeed and can go down the route of a low-carbon future and can survive in an increasingly competitive world.
but together i hope we can put business and the environment together and go forward in a united fashion.
– we voted in this house by a majority of some 400 or so for the low-carbon roadmap, and the low-carbon roadmap has as a milestone the achievement of a 25% goal by 2020. the point is we are on track to achieve that, so the differences between us are really minor.
particular mention should be made of kiri hanks, my researcher who has worked extremely hard, and emilia romano from the secretariat of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and ulrike schoner from the socialist group.
mr president, this directive might sound dull, but it boasts that it is the jewel in the crown of eu environmental policy.
well, in the north-west of england, we are sitting on possibly the biggest deposits of shale in the whole of europe and all we want is to be left alone to move on and frack, to produce shale, as what it will do is give us cheap energy and a boom in jobs.
i voted against the conclusion of the cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system (gnss) between the european community and its member states and ukraine for two reasons: firstly, because i believe that the british government alone should have the right to conclude international agreements which affect the uk and secondly, because in my opinion the gnss is a huge waste of money which is not proving to be operational and to the benefit of uk citizens.
a former venezuelan energy minister once wrote a book called the devil’s excrement in which he advanced the theory that an oil strike will wreck and vitiate a developing democracy.
you cannot help noticing that the countries in south america where the destruction of parliamentary government has gone furthest, namely venezuela, ecuador and bolivia, are the three big energy exporters.
in a climate of austerity and high unemployment, i believe we should be striving to protect local jobs and i voted in favour of that position.
in terms of both human rights and sustainable development, two things that are very important to me and my constituents in wales, this protocol is an immensely positive development.
the proposal now contains a suspension clause if mauritania fails to respect human rights and there is a limitation of fishing at sustainable levels.
fisheries partnership agreements (fpa) are of great value to the eu, but in each case we must also ensure that they maintain the sustainable fisheries policies we have outlined in the reform of the common fisheries policy and make a positive contribution to the development of the non-eu country concerned.
− i voted in favour of this report because i recognise the budgetary constraints on regional and local authorities and support flexibility in the co-financing of programmes and policies to allow for sustainable investment at regional and local level.
it is vitally important that regions, such as my constituency of wales, continue to invest in smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the next round of structural funds, and i therefore i support this report’s proposal to ensure the greatest possible flexibility for the national co-financing of eu expenditure.
− the reform of the common fisheries policy to ensure sustainable fishing, that preserves our marine environments and tackles illegal and unregulated fishing, if implemented correctly, is one of the success stories of this parliament.
in adopting a fisheries strategy for the pacific region, we can further complement the hard work the eu is already doing to develop sustainable fisheries policies, and support what is a vital industry for a number of pacific states.
only by working together can we successfully overcome the challenge of sustainable fishing and further encourage the european fishing industry.
− i voted in favour of this report because i support the establishment of maritime zones in order to enable fisheries conservation and sustainable fisheries resources.
whilst recently agreed reforms to european fisheries policy will go a long way towards encouraging more sustainable fishing within the eu, wherever possible we must continue to support efforts to resolve tensions that arise in maritime areas in the wake of increased competition and to ensure that our activities in these areas respect the need to preserve and protect marine habitats.
most of the arguments about trade with and investment in and from china have concentrated on the level playing field argument: a removal of tariff barriers, getting china to improve working conditions, paying attention to environmental concerns and ending counterfeiting.
for example, we need liberalisation of market access and of the regulatory environment through improved access to markets, reduction of investment barriers, legal certainties and investor protection.
i welcome the commissioner’s intention to use the agreement to press our policies of sustainable development and csr.
of course, issues such as tariff and non-tariff obstacles, market access (both ways, as other speakers have said), intellectual property rights, which is an issue of great concern to european companies, environmental protection issues and corporate social responsibility issues – which is something we do not mention often enough – all have to be dealt with.
i think what is interesting in this case is that, first of all, this is a proposal that has a long history, as far back as 1994. it was updated in 2003 and our task this time has been to update it, to deal with some of the fragmentation issues that are still there, where boatbuilders have experienced problems in not having their craft certified and having to get them inspected for individual markets, as well as to address environmental and safety issues.
they said to me that these obligations increase the safety of operations or bring environmental benefits and put an end to the national variations that fragment the market and force manufacturers to adapt craft for various member states.
sometimes we forget that in these small building blocks we are creating a very important economic space, a whole european supply chain which is good for consumers, good for the environment and is also good for business.
first of all, the environmental performance of engines has been very significant.
we have put in specific review provisions – particularly, as the commissioner says, about future enhancements in areas like environmental performance on both emissions and noise.
and they ask about the waste.
it is important that these checks are carried out by the court of auditors to ensure that all money spent in the eu institutions is accounted for and to avoid waste.
− it is vital that we, as meps, can assure our constituents that their hard-earned taxpayer’s money is being spent effectively and smartly by the eu, without waste or mismanagement.
mr president, i voted in favour of environmental impact assessments being extended to the exploration and extraction of shale gas.
mr president, at a time when we need to look at the supply of housing, and at the same time also look at infrastructure projects, at a time when we need to deal with many of these important issues, it is quite right that we get the right balance between development and the environment.
but let us just hold on a moment, when we look to diversify our energy resources or our energy sources, because people have suddenly started getting very upset about this whole idea of fracking, using any excuse they can find to stop it in its tracks – but what they forget is that fracking is not a recent phenomenon.
it is absolutely right that we get the right balance between environmental concerns and diversifying our energy sources and developing our country, but let us get rid of some of this scaremongering.
we need to look at the environmental impact on a case-by-case basis, not a one-size-fits-all approach from europe.
i strolled across the broad chalk fields of north hampshire and i could not help but notice that the environment was cleaner than it has ever been.
the environment keeps getting cleaner.
the best thing to have happened to the environment was the fall of the berlin wall.
− i believe this is unnecessary red tape imposed by the eu, and i stand by the view that we need to be independent of any such legislation, especially in relation to the uk’s own energy production.
− i voted in favour of the commission proposal which revises the union legislation on minimum requirements for assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment (environmental impact assessment).
it ensures that public authorities make well informed decisions when giving planning permission to development projects, and is one of the key instruments for environmental integration.
− i voted in favour of this report because an update is needed to bring the legislation into line with eu environmental priorities, such as biodiversity, climate change and the sustainable use of natural resources.
i fear that they could result in the introduction of unnecessary burdens for developers and relevant authorities and slow the delivery of key infrastructure in member states, without providing us with guarantees that these new requirements would deliver actual environmental benefits.
− i voted in favour of the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment because i believe a strengthened eia directive will benefit the environment, human health and the economy.
i hope to see a more harmonised and effective eia procedure, which would have less administrative burdens and will provide overriding benefits for the environment and human health.
− environmental impact assessments (eias) are required for all projects that are likely to have a significant impact on the environment; these include projects such as building a road or railway, or mining.
this update to the legislation was necessary to correct some shortcomings and to take account of new issues such as climate change and the use of natural resources.
the strengthened eia directive will benefit the environment, human health and the economy and ensure that the public have much more access to information throughout the process.
as well as ensuring that eias are carried out whenever necessary, the updated legislation will also require authorities to coordinate eias with other assessments required by eu law, such as those on industrial emissions, water quality and natural habitats.
− i voted against this directive as it creates further unnecessary eu red tape and continues to impose european legislation about environmental restrictions which my party opposes.
the report which parliament has adopted encourages harmonisation in the single market through the introduction of an updated system for defining boat design categories and regulating exhaust emissions.
the report is also welcome for the positive environmental impact it will have.
it successfully supplements previous commission proposals on reducing exhaust emissions and increasing the environmental performance of engines.
− i voted in favour of this report and i support the modernisation of eu safety rules and environmental performance requirements.
− i was pleased to vote in favour of this report led by my conservative colleague, which aims to establish improved safety and environmental performance requirements for watercraft.
mr president, today i was exceptionally pleased that parliament threw out the objections by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety to the commission’s new proposals on food products of animal origin.
the objection raised by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety seemed to be based on misinformation and claims that this was going to water down the standards in slaughterhouses when, in actual fact, the reality is that the commission’s proposals will strengthen the rules on hygiene in slaughterhouses and animal processing factories.
therefore, i am very pleased that parliament decided today to overrule the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and to back the commission’s plans for a much safer meat hygiene system across the rest of europe.
madam president, for 400 years, europe was a continent of net emigration as our people fled poverty and pollution and persecution.
the final result is good news for the environment and human health.
the bans on cadmium and mercury are further steps towards the long-term goal of a non-toxic environment which the council and parliament have supported in the context of the seventh environmental action programme.
the provision on the removability of batteries will help to improve the design of products, cutting waste and boosting the opportunities for re-use and recycling.
mr president, it is important as we seek developments in battery technology – not only in things such as cordless power tools, but also some of the bigger projects that we are looking at such as electric cars and other electrically powered material – that we make sure, while we are improving these battery technologies, also to think about the impact on the environment.
mr president, even the most ideological libertarian accepts the case for some regulation where there are externalities involving environmental degradation, but there is a question of proportionality.
− i voted in favour of this report because i strongly believe that we should try and make batteries as safe as possible for both the environment and consumers.
alternatives exist for both mercury and cadmium batteries which are better for the environment and health (cadmium and mercury are both carcinogenic and highly toxic).
i hope this agreement will now ensure that, in the development of batteries, greater account is taken of environmental concerns, and batteries become safer for consumers.
− during my time as an mep i have worked on several waste issues, including this one.
wales has effective policies on waste and i know that my constituents have an interest in these issues.
− i voted in favour of this report because it is very important that the eu has a sustainable way of recycling ships.
these huge pieces of metal can often be very toxic and cause environmental damage, and they should be dismantled and recycled properly.
− the european union has taken big steps during this mandate to bring consideration of our natural environment to the forefront when it comes to policymaking in a number of different areas.
i was pleased to support this agreement on the ship recycling regulation today, which again takes note of environmental needs and outlines how going forwards, eu ships can be dismantled in a more environmentally sound manner.
− the environmental and human cost of current ship recycling is inexcusable, which is why i supported the introduction of much higher standards for recycling eu ships.
a list of eu-approved sites that comply with environmental and worker-safety standards will be created, and it is hoped that this will push sites that fall below these standards to improve.
in the current economic climate, it is crucial that emphasis be put on education and skills development as a means to stimulate innovation and economic growth.
we did not talk about engines any more, we talked about energy efficiency and modernisation.
we are all concerned about ensuring a sustainable marine environment.
one element of this is ensuring that our fleet is economically sustainable as it contributes to the maintenance and, where appropriate, the recovery of the marine ecosystem.
this challenge is why much of the good work done by the commission’s internal market and trade and industry departments is undermined by the paid allies of the commission’s own social affairs or environment departments.
we have a european parliament that debates energy efficiency yet only last month told meps that they would be switching off tvs when we are not here in this building.
let us complete the single market, and let us cut red tape to allow companies to create jobs and sustainable growth.
we understand that each of our countries stands taller and is able to build better alliances, win more trade deals and tackle global challenges, including climate change, by taking part in eu foreign policy and that this enhances, rather than threatens, our sovereignty.
– madam president, the eu’s climate and energy policies are probably unnecessary, certainly ineffectual and ruinously expensive.
unnecessary, because the theory of man-made climate change is increasingly disputed, and there has been no global warming for nearly two decades.
the earth’s climate system is complex, chaotic and poorly understood.
it is absurd to think that man-made co2 is the only driver of climate.
levels of atmospheric co2 will rise for decades whatever we do.
ruinously expensive: energy commissioner oettinger said that europe cannot continue to follow a unilateral climate policy.
it is time to abandon our obsession with co2 and start to prioritise reliable and affordable energy supplies.
my party is against the vast majority of measures this report outlines, including allocating more money to the european social fund, the european regional development fund, intelligent energy europe programme ii and action on climate change.
we are completely against allocating an additional eur 1 billion for sustainable rural development, an extra eur 2 million for frontex, an extra eur 34 million for the common european asylum system, an additional eur 40 million for the asylum and migration fund, a further eur 80 million for sustainable energy and an additional eur 100 million for the eu globalisation adjustment fund.
around two years ago afbi was approached by representatives of the northern ireland fishing industry who were conscious that, with the onset of a variety of challenges most notably in respect of marine spatial planning, marine protected areas and offshore renewable energy projects, there was a need to assimilate all the available information to create a database or map that could visually demonstrate the importance of the marine environment to fishermen.
this joint project has already had positive results for fishermen, one of them being to demonstrate the importance of key fishing habitats and zones where proposals for the development of offshore energy projects are being pursued.
when fishermen can visually demonstrate the impacts of various offshore projects and marine policies in terms of the displacement of their activities, as well as the effects on the environment on which they depend, this kind of collaboration becomes an important tool.
this must comprise an important element of eu marine policy going forwards and it will be vital in achieving the commitment to support sustainable and competitive fishing industries, which we have outlined in the reform of the common fisheries policy.
scotland needs a fisheries management regime that will protect our marine environment and secure the economic future of our fishing industry.
the improvement in data collection for stocks fished in the eu is the vital step to ensure the environmental sustainability of the fish stocks available.
in scotland my constituents want to see sustainable fishing, support for coastal communities to diversify their economies and for it to be easier for fishermen and their communities to access financing.
− i voted in favour of the european maritime and fisheries fund because i believe in a more sustainable, innovative and competitive maritime and fishing industry.
− the european maritime and fisheries fund must be allowed to fully support the sustainable fisheries policies that we have secured as a part of the common fisheries policy reforms.
i, like many of my colleagues here, represent a constituency with a strong and vibrant small boat fishing sector and i know that the fisherman in my constituency recognise the value of a sound fisheries policy; one that supports a thriving fishing industry, protects our marine environments and promotes sustainable fishing practices.
i hope that we can deliver an emff that fully supports our fishing communities in reaching these goals, whilst stopping the wasteful and uncompetitive application of these funds for commercial refitting of fleets with no environmental basis.
i have long supported a sustainable and localised fishing industry and voted to block measures that would have seen a return to using british taxpayers’ money paying for renewal of spanish and french fishing fleets which are already well over capacity.
i voted in support of measures that prioritise the needs of small-scale and coastal fisheries, including more emphasis on helping local, sustainable management of fish stocks.
i also supported more funds for data collection, control and enforcement that will help ensure that fishing is sustainable and stocks remain healthy into the future.
although labour would have liked to see a more ambitious outcome that ruled out all measures known to contribute to overfishing, the steps that the whole parliament has taken to delete the most harmful subsidies are a key sign of its continued commitment to reformed rules for sustainable fishing.
fishing must be sustainable, so labour meps voted against subsidies for fleet renewal, which would lead to over-capacity and over-fishing.
in order to support the aims of the reformed cfp, we voted to support measures that would promote sustainable fishing, such as training for fishermen, better enforcement of rules and financial aid to improve management, monitoring and control of fish stocks.
the recently-published findings of the international panel on climate change (ipcc) showed that scientists are now 95 % certain that climate change is the result of human activities.
in november, the annual un climate change conference will take place in warsaw, where it is hoped progress will be made towards the global climate deal that is expected to be finalised during the paris conference in 2015. however, the eu should not be using any possible delay as an excuse not to act itself.
we are currently working on the 2030 framework for climate change, and it is essential that we step up our climate-change ambitions: not only to lower greenhouse gas emissions – important as they are – but also to create jobs from low-carbon technologies.
− the impact of climate change on our planet cannot be confined to member state or european union borders, therefore i do believe that it is important that we work with other parties to the un framework convention on climate change, to come up with the right global responses to the challenges climate change poses.
however, given our lack of competitiveness currently, particularly with regards to our energy costs, we need to refrain from aggressive new targets.
the upward revision of the 2020 emissions reduction target from 20% to 30%, an unconditional 50% reduction target for 2030, and the financial transaction tax (ftt) for the financing of future climate change mitigation measures are disappointing inclusions at this time of economic challenge.
− i have voted for the establishment of a programme for the environment and climate action.
i believe that the new ‘integrated projects’ are a positive development, as they will bring together eu, national and private funds in support of the implementation of major eu environmental legislation, covering areas like water, waste, air quality and nature protection.
i was also pleased to see more generous co-financing rates for integrated projects for priority nature, biodiversity and conservation projects.
i believe that this motion is an important part of the establishment of key instruments to provide more support to partner countries building deep and sustainable democracy and to support inclusive economic development.
− i voted in favour of this report as, although i am not convinced of the worth of public-private partnerships which are mentioned in this report and am against any steps towards the privatisation of water, there remains a very comprehensive overview of the eu environment with a lot of excellent inclusions.
i am proud that the parliament has strengthened a number of key policy areas such as targets on co2 reductions and targets on land, material, carbon and water footprint.
wales is committed to sustainability and fighting climate change.
− whilst european environment policy has given us some of the tools we need to tackle the environmental challenges our planet faces, there is no doubt that there remains much room for improvement.
this environment action programme must take the opportunity it has to get the legislation we already have in place working properly and to put eu environment policy on the right tracks as we head towards 2020.
in writing.
− i have voted in favour of amendment 6 to the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the cfsp because the amendment stresses that international trade needs to be based on social rights and standards on health, environment and labour conditions.
− with so many difficult tasks still ahead for the european union, i would really like to see this parliament focusing on the vital areas in which the eu does have competence, such as the single market, or the environment, or investment in research and development.
however, it is a shame that member states massively cut this funding scheme, as proposed by the commission, for energy, transport and telecommunications infrastructure, as these are concrete instruments for jobs and growth.
a business needs to move its goods from a to b across europe in the most efficient and sustainable way.
we can achieve that, for the environment and for our economy, only as the united kingdom in europe, and by being part of the connecting europe scheme.
mr president, european environmental law is designed to deliver a high level of protection for the environment.
complaints have been submitted to the commission by ban the burn, a local environmental group, and by the royal society for the protection of birds, both concerning the illegal burning and destruction of protected habitats, including blanket bog on the walshaw moor estate in the south pennines natura 2000 site.
it is not acceptable that governments on the one hand complain that the eu does not benefit their citizens, while denying them the protection and the real benefits of eu environmental law.
today’s vote marks the culmination of a long process that began several years ago when this parliament first began drafting the report by the special committee on the policy challenges and budgetary resources for a sustainable european union after 2013 (sure).
through the connecting europe facility we can look forward to funding for developing the energy interconnectors that will help realise the tremendous opportunities for marine energy off scotland’s coasts; and our rural communities and farming communities can also look forward to investment from the common agricultural policy, rural development funding and regional funding to help create new jobs and grow local businesses.
to that end, creating jobs, particularly among the young, as well as research and development, erasmus and connecting europe, will all help long-term sustainable growth in the economy.
while 6% is not very big in light of the waste of money under the eu budget, it is a big step to calling a halt to the ever-increasing ambitions of the eu.
it might affect the new agreements we have on sustainability, labour conditions and environmental protection in procurement.
we as legislators should do all we can to provide opportunities for our young people to better equip themselves with the necessary skills in a difficult economic climate.
− the connecting europe facility (cef) offers real potential in terms of developing the euʼs transport, telecommunications and energy networks.
improvements in telecommunications and energy networks can also benefit the local population, attracting new investments and expanding existing enterprises.
− investment in infrastructure projects in the fields of transport, energy and telecommunications offers the opportunity to provide real boosts to the economic competitiveness of regions right across the european union, and so i am pleased to see the european union budget allocating funds to such projects via this connecting europe facility.
i also hope that the connecting europe facility will make strides towards modernising and expanding the energy infrastructure within europe, whilst simultaneously enhancing the security of europe’s energy supply.
− in view of the 5th assessment report from the international panel on climate change, none can reasonably deny that we are already seeing the effects of manmade climate change.
melting ice caps, rising sea levels and more frequent extreme weather events such as the last weekend’s typhoon haiyan and the storm which buffeted sardinia yesterday: all are consistent with the science of climate change currently under examination in warsaw.
that is why an amendment crafted in this house – to the part of the connecting europe facility which deals with energy interconnections – is so important.
unless we make the switch from fossil fuels to clean energy sources we have no chance of mitigating climate change.
in order to do that we need trans-european electricity distribution networks – a smart supergrid, if you like – to exploit renewable energy sources and to balance supply and demand.
i also believe that nuclear research programmes should focus on protecting people and the environment, the safe decommissioning of nuclear installations and non-proliferation.
− nuclear energy remains an expensive and dangerous technology and various nations have opted out of nuclear in the aftermath of the fukushima disaster.
public money should be spent on finding alternatives to nuclear and to safely dealing with radioactive waste left by misguided policies of the past.
i support continuing efforts to further research activities in the field of nuclear energy and i believe that this proposal should form a key part of the overall horizon 2020 package.
− i have voted for the european atomic energy community research and training programme.
we also must be certain that nuclear waste is not exported to third countries.
the scottish national party has long been opposed to nuclear energy and accordingly we acknowledge the need for decommissioning programmes.
we believe however that long-term management of waste must be conducted near-surface and as near to site of production as possible.
this precludes the export of waste to third countries – a possibility which my group has sought to prohibit.
under the reform, northern ireland has been classified as a ‘transition’ region from 2014 to 2020, a period which will further enhance the efforts to improve competitiveness and create sustainable employment.
northern ireland must draw down as much of this eu funding as possible in support of our innovative businesses, smes and urban areas, particularly in such a difficult economic climate.
these schemes are often just a waste of money, but a waste of money used to promote the eu’s identity as a political state.
mr president, my own east of england region has benefited in the current term from gbp 100 million in regional funds with a programme to help our businesses convert to low-carbon growth, and gbp 200 million in social funds helping 2500 people find or stay in work.
why, as we lecture our constituents on reducing their co2 emissions, do we emit 19 000 tonnes of the stuff every year when commuting between brussels and strasbourg?
but times change and what was a symbol of reconciliation in 1950 is now a symbol of waste: a waste of time, a waste of energy and a waste of taxpayers’ money.
we will save thousands of tonnes of carbon dioxide every year and, most important of all, we will save hundreds of millions of euros of taxpayers’ money.
it is symbolic of eu waste.
if you believe in the wickedness of co2 emissions, which most of you mistakenly do, then you should hate the strasbourg circus for that reason.
it now represents all that is wrong with the european union: the waste, the bureaucracy, the absurdity – so much so that parliament’s presence here is often referred to as a ‘travelling circus’.
there comes a time when countries and communities within those countries have to move forward, and we can no longer rely on that as the excuse for continuing to waste taxpayers’ money in these very difficult times.
the good parts are the move away from pure income support in the direct payments package towards incentives for developing a more sustainable agriculture and paying for public goods.
on greening: i believe this is too narrowly focused on biodiversity measures alone at the expense of genuine attempts to reduce the use of scarce resources such as energy, to reduce fertiliser use and pesticide use and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
this is an area where i do believe that this policy should have – and could have – gone much further in building a sustainable, competitive and productive sector.
with less money for rural development, we need to ensure that this is directed towards agriculture and the environment.
member states are currently making costly administrative changes to accommodate greening proposals, which i predict will have no beneficial impact on the environment at all.
nothing has been agreed that will help farmers to farm more sustainably or to help to protect the environment.
the civil war in syria has seen a huge influx of refugees to the country, whilst the political situation in egypt has disrupted gas supplies, leading to higher energy costs as alternative supplies have been sought.
that said, i appreciate the importance of eu funding, particularly to my own constituency in ireland in the current economic climate.
this week we have seen a real terms cut in the budget for the first time, a reflection of the economic climate in europe and around the world, but also an understanding that the eu needs to take a more logical approach to its financing.
in the first instance investment for growth and jobs is extremely important especially in the current economic climate.
in addition objectives for energy efficiency, renewable energy and low-carbon economy were included, including an increased minimum share allocated to low-carbon economy.
in addition the support available for airport infrastructure has been limited albeit to environmental protection measures only.
it will now include much higher levels of spending on energy efficiency and renewables, for example in the housing sector.
nevertheless, the fact that 60% of funding spent must satisfy four thematic areas of the europe 2020 strategy can only be considered a good thing, given the strategy’s commitment to sustainable transport, promotion of employment and education, as well as research and innovation.
− the european parliament has voted in favour today of adopting this legislative package on future cohesion policy, including this european regional development fund regulation, which will focus spending on objectives such as the move towards a low carbon economy and supporting sme competitiveness.
the new elements in the compromise agreed on this package aim to increase the effectiveness of the erdf in creating jobs, supporting innovation and reaching environmental goals.
the new elements in the compromise agreed on this package aim to increase the effectiveness of erdf in creating jobs, supporting innovation and reaching environmental goals.
− i was pleased that sustainable tourism, culture and natural heritage were included as part of a territorial strategy and job creation.
− i voted in favour of this report and welcome the proposed support for territorial cooperation, including sustainable tourism, culture and natural heritage.
my group succeeded in improving the report more by including reference to the rights of people with disabilities, no funding for nuclear power plants, funding for energy efficiency and adapting to climate change.
− the cohesion fund concentrates on infrastructure investment in transport, energy and telecommunications in central and eastern european states.
gender diversity on boards leads to more sustainable decisions, and therefore to a more resilient european economy.
this is because i believe that this reform of the cap has been a missed opportunity, and many parts of the report do not lead to a greener, more sustainable and transparent agricultural policy.
the reform does not lead to a decisive shift in favour of a ‘public money for public goods’ philosophy, benefitting society at large by meeting the social, economic and environmental concerns facing rural communities.
moreover, instead of delivering a greener cap that would represent a real shift towards greener farming in europe, this reform offers only a ‘green washʼ, which will exempt more farmers from applying the green measures than it will deliver in benefits for the environment.
it provides funding for the general economic, social and environmental well-being of rural areas.
it also funds agri-environmental schemes, funding for less favoured areas and the leader programme for local groups.
i want the cap not just to work in the interests of farmers, but to work in the interests of society at large, meeting the social, economic and specifically environmental concerns facing european rural communities and meeting the concerns of the public at large.
i believe the rural development pillar is the best mechanism for delivering these outcomes because it supports schemes enhancing biodiversity, stimulating innovation and competitiveness, encouraging young entrants, supporting areas with natural constraints, etc.
key issues in this dossier relate to the link between the greening measures in direct payments and agri-environmental schemes in rural development, the farm advisory service, risk management tools and the distribution of funding between member states.
the proposed text excludes the possibility of double funding for the same programmes under both pillars of the cap, it includes forestry in rd programmes, delays the introduction of new biophysical criteria for less favoured areas (lfas) and reserves 30% of funding to agri-environmental, organic, and forestry programmes.
− i did not support this proposal, as i want to see a competitive, thriving and sustainable eu agriculture sector.
cap funds should be geared to the benefit of society at large, meeting the social, economic and environmental concerns facing rural communities.
reintroducing coupled payments, and allowing for transfer of funds away from pillar 2. instead of delivering a greener cap that would represent a real shift towards greener farming in europe, this reform offers only a ‘green washʼ, which will exempt more farmers from applying the green measures than it will deliver in benefits for the environment.
our monthly trip between these two parliaments is not just a waste of time and energy, but it is a waste of money.
you are letting down the people you represent when you are prepared to be an iconic waste of money.
madam president, there are few issues which have the power to unite all sides of this house like the embarrassment and scandalous waste of the strasbourg circus.
let us consign to the past the worst excesses of the eu and the scandalous waste of maintaining two duplicate parliaments.
the costs, both environmental and monetary, of relocating to strasbourg for twelve sessions a year cannot be justified to our taxpayers and i hope that the adoption of this report today will bring us a step closer to securing a single location for the european parliament.
in a time when all member states have had to tighten their belts and make smarter budgetary choices, i consider this expenditure to be an unnecessary waste of taxpayer money, and this is why i have voted in favour of the report on the location of the seats of the european union’s institutions.
thirdly, we want to see a greater emphasis on climate change and biodiversity, not forgetting the role of space research.
and in my region i have seen people working on everything from curing cancer to wiping out crop diseases, from delivering cleaner energy to developing clearer communications.
thirdly, it has been good to support some individual areas of research such as degenerative diseases, nuclear fusion, energy storage, crop compliance and plant science, all of which are really important.
– madam president, horizon 2020 talks in bold optimistic language about excellent science, industrial leadership and societal challenges like climate change – although in fact we have not seen very much climate change for the last 20 years.
yet the action we are taking on climate is both doomed and disastrous.
it is doomed because, while we agonise over emissions, there are 12 000 new coal-fired plants in the global pipeline, including a couple of dozen in germany.
it is time to face the truth: that global emissions will keep rising for decades and there is nothing that we can do about it.
it is also disastrous, because we are forcing up energy prices to create what commissioner tajani has called an industrial massacre.
we are forcing households and pensioners into fuel poverty: this winter, european citizens will die as a result of our climate policies.
it is not just energy prices, it is energy security too.
there have always been climate disasters.
and this report is supposed to be about more competitiveness, sustainability and an inclusive europe.
one of my major areas of concern is the risk of duplication of effort in a climate of limited resources in the defence-spending sector, where concepts like nato, smart defence and the csdp’s pooling and sharing are being developed – rightly – to save on costs to national budgets.
it is money well spent and it has ongoing benefits for many years hence for the environment.
it is not a huge budget, but it is very beneficial and it fills an important niche, which is funding the environmental and climate projects that are not eligible for funding anywhere else.
these regions are rich in biodiversity but they often struggle to secure funding from international programmes because there is an assumption that they will be funded by the eu.
he believes that the recent flood tragedy in sardinia was caused by climate change and that those of us who argue against manmade climate change are, therefore, somehow responsible.
he does not believe that the flood was caused by global warming: he blames the eu’s stability and growth pact, which has denied sardinia the funding it needs to manage its water courses.
the flood in sardinia was caused not by global warming, but by a failure to dredge the river.
the house and mr turmes may like to note that natural disasters can have much more mundane and down to earth causes than global warming.
this will facilitate access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises, create an environment favourable to business creation and growth, encourage a more entrepreneurial culture in europe, increase the sustainable competitiveness of eu companies and help small businesses operate outside their home countries and improve their access to markets.
our ability to tackle problems of the present and future, such as disease, energy inefficiencies and infrastructure, relies on flourishing research and innovation.
with horizon 2020, i believe we have created an environment where such challenges are more likely to be met.
it finances environment and climate projects in wales and across the eu.
in this new proposal, operating grants for environmental ngos are also covered.
− i voted in favour of this report because it is part of the key budget of the eu that is dedicated to the environment.
it allocates funds to environmental projects and climate programmes, which are both key parts of our strategy to fight climate change and reduce the damage we do to the environment.
− i voted in favour of the programme for the environment and climate action as this would not only bring about the implementation of major eu environmental legislation but would also secure more generous co-financing rates, which i feel is important.
− the struggle to meet the environmental challenges of the future is one that is not going to go away and we will have to continue to try to address these challenges.
therefore it is right that, amongst the eu’s funding programmes for 2014-2020, there is a dedicated financial instrument for the environment.
− i was pleased to see that the final agreement for the establishment of a programme for the environment and climate action has included an allowance for the vat of staff costs to be eligible for funding.
i hope that the introduction of ‘integrated projects’ which converge various eu, national and private funds in support of major eu environmental legislation will improve key areas such as water, waste, air quality and nature protection.
the more generous co-financing rates for these projects will also aid the protection of the environment.
if we add the acknowledged environmental damage created by the overzealous search for fish we have to ask: what is the point of the cfp?
avoidance of by-catch waste is a welcome theme of the stevenson report, with adult commercial fish to be allowed onto the open market and the remaining by-catch being used for some other commercial purpose: fish meal, pet food, etc.
mr president, we all want healthy fish stocks, a prosperous fishing industry and a healthy marine environment, and i believe this reform will go some way towards achieving that.
it is clear that a brussels-centred one-size-fits-all approach was not working, and it is imperative that we put fishermen at the core of developing technical and conservation measures in order to secure a sustainable fishing industry.
we have a policy which has been much criticised over the years and now it is one which i will be able to defend with pleasure –because at the heart of it is the determination to rebuild our fish stocks, as the commissioner said, above maximum sustainable yield.
– mr president, we are still waiting for the commission to propose a viable and sustainable solution to the question of fishing quotas in the north-east atlantic, one that reflects the increase in stock number, and those member states which abused their previous allocation should be sanctioned, not rewarded.
there is growing support across this house for these proposals because we all realise that at these depths it takes an enormously long time for the marine ecosystem to recover once it is damaged.
this is not a way to be dealing with the sensible sustainable fisheries of the future.
disruption of that environment means it takes a long time to recover – just as high-mountain environments take a long time to recover when they are damaged.
deep-sea trawling trashes the environment necessary for ecological diversity, creating long-term damage for a short-term return.
this house has missed a valuable opportunity to further help the marine environment (which is increasingly under threat from climate change) by deferring a decision to stop deep-sea trawling.
it has the potential to improve the business environment and boost research and development.
it needs to define and shape a car industry which remains strong and competitive globally and which also plays a full part in decarbonising energy for sustainable road transport.
what i look for in this new agreement is an assurance that it conforms to international law; that it will provide value for money to the uk and eu taxpayer; that those fishing opportunities secured will be sustainable and surplus to the needs of the local fishing industry in the region; that safeguards are in place to ensure financial support is utilised in the correct manner; and, finally, that any agreement must not undermine un efforts to find a just, lasting and mutually acceptable political solution in the western sahara.
− i hope that following the approval of this protocol today this agreement will now be able to function fully effectively, delivering environmental sustainability as a priority and assisting the region with employment and further economic benefits.
i have worked with many organisations and companies in wales on chemical-related issues which are important to the environment as well as safety at work.
− prolonging duty-free imports of us beef could jeopardise sustainable beef production in wales.
this agreement has demonstrated that it is economically justified and effective and i hope that it will continue in this manner, whilst also generating further support for the development of sustainable fisheries practices.
in this case 611 workers in denmark were made redundant due to the rapid expansion of the global wind energy sector which has led to a significant reduction of the eu market share.
however, regrettably canada withdrew from the kyoto protocol in 2011 while the eu has repeatedly called on ottawa to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions in line with its international commitments.
it is imperative that all nations reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.
wales has a commitment to sustainable development and strong international agreements are essential to achieve that.
this new agreement will give member states greater control and flexibility over their fisheries policy, whilst enforcing the necessary limits needed to ensure that fishing is conducted on a sustainable basis.
− i voted for this report as now the cfp is being reformed and is taking a turn in the direction of sustainability.
the new agreed policy will meet the key objectives – ending discards, restoring fish stocks to sustainable levels, and promoting smaller-scale coastal fishing within the eu.
it also establishes essential measures to decentralise the cfp, bring an end to overfishing and restore our fish stocks to sustainable levels.
the policy is working towards reforming the fishing industry in the eu, including sustainable quotas and a discard ban.
i have, along with my fellow labour meps, fought long and hard for major reform of the cfp in a sustainable direction, and we are pleased to see these reforms becoming a reality.
the new cfp will bring an end to the hugely wasteful practice of discarding fish back into the ocean, to keep within quota limits, by introducing a ban from 2015. it will also oblige fisheries ministers to set sustainable fishing quotas and will introduce fish-stock recovery areas to give additional protection to spawning grounds and sensitive areas.
in addition, the reforms will transfer day-to-day management of fisheries to regional level, so that this is managed by people who know the local area, and will allow member states to award larger quotas to fleets that practise sustainable fishing methods, thereby helping our small-scale fishermen.
however, the report was strong on ending the practice of discarding edible fish and improving sustainable fish labelling.
we have had much debate in recent months about the need to balance support for our fishing industry with protecting the unique marine environment.
− i voted in favour of the report and in favour of the ban on deep-sea trawling as i believe in sustainable fishing.
i personally feel strongly that all deep sea fishing must be carried out in a sustainable manner.
deep-sea bottom trawling is economically, socially and environmentally costly, and the eu needs to phase out the most destructive fishing methods in favour of more sustainable methods.
the practice is hugely destructive for vulnerable marine ecosystems and is completely incompatible with the sustainable fishing we have been calling for in the reform of the common fisheries policy.
− i voted in favour of this report which is aimed at tackling the oversupply of emissions allowances in the euʼs emissions trading scheme by postponing the auctioning of 900 million allowances.
we now need to move on to truly tackling the problems with the emissions trading scheme.
‘backloadingʼ is only a stop-gap measure to buy time for more fundamental structural reform of the scheme and is unlikely to have any major impact on the artificially low carbon price.
the commission must now move urgently to propose more structural reforms to the eu carbon market.
this implies permanently retiring allowances and increasing the outdated 2020 eu emissions reduction target.
this is an issue which the wales climate change commission has addressed in some detail.
− i voted in favour of this report which is vital to the proper working of greenhouse gas allowances.
this will help correct the over-allocation of allowances which is pushing carbon prices down.
the emissions trading system (ets) was established as a market mechanism and i maintain my position that it must therefore be allowed to function as one.
there is a clear demand for waste paper in the eu, paper mills are not operating at full capacity, therefore it would be desirable to further increase the separate collection of waste paper.
− i support the commission’s draft measure establishing criteria for determining when recovered paper ceases to be waste.
this proposal aims to remove obligations and burdens placed upon businesses (in this case those dealing with the end of waste materials), something which i always welcome, and therefore i voted to reject this objection at today’s vote.
− i voted against this report as it does not take into account the fact that energy efficiency and clean vehicles are a positive competitive and economic factor for industry as well as for consumers and the environment.
we need to be encouraging energy-efficient vehicles as well as working on extending transport networks to ensure more people can take advantage of public transport.
to support this very important part of the welsh economy, i have voted in favour of ‘cars 2020: towards a strong, competitive and sustainable european car industryʼ.
i was pleased to see the positive changes in the volunteering environment at both european and national level, which in some cases has led to the adoption or modification of volunteering strategies and legislation in member states.
the european council should not relegate energy policy to the status of a footnote.
the switch from fossil fuels to clean energy is essential for security against the impact of climate change and for independence from russia.
an effective security policy has to be integrated with policies on poverty, the environment, energy, trade, food and water resources and so on.
it is my view that there has always been too little attention given to social and environmental indicators.
this will offer an opportunity to promote further cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links, enhancing people-to-people contacts and sectoral cooperation, in addition to strengthening political relations through the eastern partnership and the conclusion of the association agreement.
the pre-accession funds also help the eu reach its own objectives regarding a sustainable economic recovery, energy supply, transport, the environment and climate change.
i oppose yet more eu waste.
this will make the transport of radioactive waste safer.
this is especially worrying given the current economic climate where cuts in public health care and social services are having a detrimental effect on many women with disabilities.
− mr president, the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs starts with a number of reminders: article 3 of the treaty says we shall work for the sustainable development of europe based on balanced economic growth and price stability, a highly competitive social market economy, full employment and social progress; article 9: the promotion of a high level of employment, guaranteed adequate social protection, fight against social exclusion, high level of education and human health, taking into account the european union policies; and article 151: the union of the member states shall have as their objective the promotion of employment, improved living and working conditions, proper social protection, and so on.
but that, of course, requires a treaty change and that all takes time and the agreement of everyone involved – all those countries – which in the current climate may be hard to get.
the first ten countries to apply for the new gsp+ scheme are choosing not only to strengthen their economy through cooperation with europe, but also demonstrating their commitment to improving their human rights, environmental and labour standards.
if it is real, we should stand shoulder to shoulder with our colleagues and make sure that we help them develop their human rights, labour standards and environmental standards.
so my question now is: how does the commission plan to safeguard the role of the european union in promoting human and labour rights, and environment and good governance through trade and development?
core labour standards and commitments to the environment and human rights are expected outcomes and indeed, as has been mentioned already, pakistan is one country where it is believed real progress can and is being made.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on development of an eu green infrastructure (gi) policy by salvatore tatarella, edite estrela, gerben-jan gerbrandy, sandrine bélier, anna rosbach, kartika tamara liotard, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000094/2013 – b7-0525/2013) (2013/2663(rsp)).
we are dealing here with well-understood, long-term natural climate cycles which have been in place for many thousands of years.
our problem is not with the climate but with our climate policy.
yesterday i attended a briefing by euroelectric and eurostat on energy statistics.
we heard that the eu’s emissions were flat in 2012 and are expected to increase in 2013 – this despite vast investments in green infrastructure, specifically in renewable energy projects.
if emissions increase despite our best efforts when the economy is struggling, what will happen if the eurozone ever recovers?
i will tell you: emissions will rise.
hundreds of billions of euros of investment, yet no progress towards our emissions objectives.
we had energy commissioner gunther oettinger telling us that europe could not afford to pursue a unilateral climate policy.
we had industry commissioner antonio tajani telling us that europe faced an industrial massacre as a result of energy prices.
a recent study by respected environmental economist bjørn lomborg showed that germany's vast usd 130 billion investment in solar pv will have the effect, by the end of this century, of delaying the progress of global warming by 37 hours!
eco-innovation refers to the transition to a sustainable and green economy and the benefits that this can bring.
there may be some ecological argument for doing it – we can argue about that – but, when you hear people trying to defend this state-funded alternative energy in terms of jobs and growth, you know that they have no arguments left.
− i voted against the kadenbach report on ‘eco-innovation - jobs and growth through environmental policyʼ because i believe that what is really needed is to focus on the implementation of existing legislation before proposing fresh regulations.
i know that my constituents want to see the creation of sustainable, green jobs and growth.
it is especially important that global challenges such as climate change are addressed and the environmental benefits gained from eco-innovation can play a big part in the shift towards a resource-efficient, low-carbon economy.
this could be beneficial to wales as it looks to enhance competitiveness in a low-carbon and resource efficient economy.
we need a robust system that can guide us to make the most of this territory, both for the sake of our economy and the environment.
− i voted in favour of this report as i support allocations of space at sea as a means of avoiding conflicts between different uses and promoting sustainable uses of resources.
the environmental dimension, such as supporting biodiversity and ecosystems or flood protection, is extremely important, but green infrastructure policy has to offer much more in terms of economic and social benefits, such as creating jobs and offering services.