i would also like to stress that unless there is a broader framework for development in the countries of the south, a balance between the countries of the european union, we will not be able to create the conditions for sustainable growth and stability which will bring investment, employment and retention of young people in their countries and in europe.
madam president, the european solidarity fund was launched immediately after the 2002 floods, but climate change and other human interventions have led to an increase in the frequency and intensity of natural disasters.
in particular, they call on the local administration to enter into partnerships with the european commission which will determine the eligibility of projects and the way funds are allocated not to meet the increased needs of the people which are particularly large today, such as public, free transport, seismic and flood protection, public education infrastructure, etc., but, instead, to new profitable areas for capital, such as waste management, the commercial exploitation of historical and cultural monuments, the liberalisation of energy production and distribution.
the impressive development of modern bioscience and the rapid growth of scientific research on the genetic base of life have created growing expectations vis-à-vis the commercial value of biodiversity.
however, we have also seen increasing concerns from developing countries relating to the misappropriation of genetic resources and ways of ensuring that the benefits stemming from intellectual property rights based on genetic resources from biodiversity reach developing countries.
this in turn should help the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity and those who depend on ecosystems in the source countries.
i would also like to mention the energy conference held by the cypriot minister of energy, which was attended by all the ambassadors from the south-east mediterranean region, north africa and the middle east, including israel and palestine.
similarly, it is where the effects of the economic crisis are most strongly felt and the challenges of reducing the impact of climate change, job creation, well-being and quality of life are played out.
the report considers it an inalienable right of enterprises to make whatever restructuring they deem necessary for their profitability, such as redundancies, the generalized application of temporary flexible employment, welfare, intensification of the exploitation of the working class, protection and safeguarding of competitiveness, the profitability of monopolies, and the protection of the environment.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
this means in practice - and not just in words - growth-friendly budgetary programmes and structural change programmes which respect and do not undermine social rights, which promote competitive and comparative advantages and safeguard the european environmental acquis.
the increased delegation of competences at transnational level ensures better and more efficient controls, while creating a safer environment for citizens with regard to the hazard and safety of the relevant preparations.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
madam president, commissioner, as the european aviation landscape continues to change under the weight of fuel prices and low-cost models, it is in principle the responsibility of the union to safeguard passenger rights and a fair competitive environment.
it causes wounds in the environment.
- the the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
the small size, the inaccessibility both externally and internally, the declining and ageing population, the lack of basic raw materials and public goods (water, electricity, fuel), as well as the geophysical and climatic conditions (rocky soil, fragmented agricultural holdings, and drought and strong winds respectively) make up the highly peculiar environment of the small aegean islands; this is why special measures are needed.
the concept of agricultural activity, in its most modern sense, is inextricably linked to sustainable economic, social and ecological development.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
we therefore proposed that the commission should consider the prospect of an integrated plan for sustainable development of the islands, which would make use of the cultural heritage and environmental significance of the small aegean islands.
it has been shown that young people who have lived in a stable family environment, without domestic violence especially against the mother and women, have a better position in society and a greater balance.
according to available data, 75% of the union's fish stocks are overfished, and more than 60% of european waters are fished beyond their maximum sustainable yield.
the introduction of maximum sustainable yield, as adopted by the committee on fisheries, will, i believe, bring significant economic, environmental and social benefits.
the proposal to ban waste is also generally considered to be a good one, since no one wants to waste resources, especially in the difficult economic circumstances we are living in.
in fact, due to stricter capital requirements, creditors often require additional personal guarantees in addition to standard bank guarantees, making the financial environment for smes stifling.
economic indicators must be complemented by social indicators in order to be able to propose sustainable policies.
the next item is the debate on - oral question to the council on the preparations for the 16th conference of the parties to the convention on international trade [2012/2838 (rsp) ] by matthias groote, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000201/2012 - b7-0109/2013), - oral question to the commission on the preparations for the 16th conference of the parties to the convention on international trade [2012/2838 (rsp) ] by matthias groote, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000207/2012 - b110/2013)
mr president, an increasing number of countries in the european union are supporting the us proposal to include polar bears in appendix i of cites.
polar bears are facing a growing number of threats: climate change, loss of habitats, pollution and all forms of development.
(for the results and other votes on the votes: see minutes) the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left to the detriment of the environment, and that the fisheries sector is not left to the detriment of the environment.
the ban on waste is conducive to monopolistic concentration.
the development of sustainable fisheries to meet the needs of the people requires the socialization of monopolies.
popular power and economy, which, through centralised planning of fisheries production and the leverage of the fisheries production cooperative, will ensure the people's nutritional needs in fishery products, in accordance with the fishing possibilities available, with respect for the requirements of fish stocks, ecosystems and the environment.
the aim of this report is to protect public health and the environment through measures to reduce the noise level of motor vehicles.
on the other hand, the murders of three pkk activists in paris may reinvigorate an already fragile climate.
we urgently need to end this misinformation and to tell the truth, which is that every year new legislation is being adopted and implemented in almost every country in the world regarding climate change.
it will seriously help us speed up the pace of negotiations and give the global climate agreement a chance.
economic conditions in the investment environment vary from country to country and we need to provide the right instruments to ensure the maximum impact of eib activity in lending, leveraging eu budgetary funds with our loans or technical advice.
besides that, our business is designed on four pillars, more or less equally distributed between strategic infrastructure projects, investments in research and development, climate action activities and the support of small and medium-sized enterprises.
the bank provided substantial amounts and support for school facilities throughout greece, as well as for development of environmentally friendly energy production.
in these same countries the investment environment has deteriorated so dramatically that even investment in economically viable projects is facing difficulties, sometimes insurmountable, not to mention the difficulties of small and mediumsized enterprises which are really dramatic.
greece can therefore also benefit from this mechanism, at a time when the fight against all forms of financial fraud is a prerequisite for improving the economic climate in greece and restoring positive growth rates.
this resolution emphasises the importance of financial instruments to improve the training of judges and their access to the law, and the functioning of a network of interconnected judicial coordinators to facilitate judges to consult in their daily work with their counterparts in other member states on issues such as the interpretation of applicable european law (through a secure digital environment).
the key pillars of a european energy policy are security of supply, diversification of energy suppliers and sources, competitive prices and energy efficiency.
these policies are complemented by the overall objective of reducing carbon emissions.
so let's talk about energy: i would like to make some proposals for our energy policy which require realism, moderation, transcendence, awareness of reality and a spirit of compromise.
we must achieve the right balance between energy and environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the energy performance of buildings is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
we europeans have lost our fighting creativity by abolishing forms of energy instead of improving them and making them environmentally friendly.
in central and southern europe, more than 50% of the household budget goes to energy costs.
in bulgaria, they took to the streets and the government fell because of the cost of energy.
i do not want to be a cassandra, but i foresee a chain of social reactions due to energy poverty, and it was good that the socialists included the social dimension of energy for the first time in this report we are discussing.
support the european character of these deposits by setting up a south-east european mediterranean energy committee with greece, cyprus, italy and the european union as permanent members.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy market is not affected by the crisis, and it is therefore not possible to take any further action.
europe must finally trust its indigenous energy sources, whether fossil fuels, wind from the north or sun from the south.
if we do not recognise the role of renewable energy, we will not be objective.
but we cannot ask for binding targets when there is no central european energy management.
the transition to renewable energy sources cannot be achieved overnight.
firstly, energy efficiency: you can come to us with open doors.
i think it was right that we have a 20% energy efficiency target in europe.
we look forward to seeing the progress made on energy savings in 2012/2013.
we will then, before the end of our commission mandate, make a forecast of whether the speed of implementation in the member states and our measures, which we have decided to make binding, will be sufficient to achieve the 20% target for 2020, or whether further measures will have to be discussed and decided upon with the new parliament in 2015. i think that the time has come for a new energy efficiency target, based on analyses of developments at european level, the effectiveness of your directive, our joint directive, the national action plans.
that is, i would be more inclined - also in terms of when we will succeed in the council - to see 2015 as the right time to propose a binding, pragmatic and ambitious 2030 energy efficiency target.
secondly, shale gas: we all agree that gas will play an increasingly important role in the global energy mix and also in the european energy mix.
and the third reason is that gas is very flexible and therefore the ideal partner for renewable energy.
knowing that there are also significant environmental risks in siberia, in the arctic, in nigeria, in algeria?
the main thing is that the gas arrives clean in lubmin near greifswald, then we are not concerned about the environmental hazards in siberia and the arctic and the working conditions.
the environment is indivisible.
and i would like to accompany this at european level with a european philosophy of safety and the environment.
the subject of energy prices requires a longer discussion.
on the one hand, high energy prices are good because they are the most effective economic factor for energy saving.
conversely, the peak of reasonable energy prices may have been reached.
energy poverty is no longer a foreign word.
energy has to play a bigger role in the shopping basket than food and housing and so on.
in spain we currently have the problem that regulated electricity prices have created a deficit of 29 billion euros, which now leads to some not necessarily sustainable changes in the promotion of renewable energies.
we want to make it clear that we want to continue to promote renewable energy!
we want to bring them to the market, we want to make subsidies degressive and we have not put any pressure on the promotion of renewable energies.
i see great potential for geothermal energy and i believe that we need to increase our research here!
the report recommends that this subject be introduced into national education programmes so that energy saving starts at the root.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
- the mr president, commissioner, we are discussing two specific reports, the lulucf report and the mrv report, but in any case the subject we are discussing here is climate change.
every year we meet at the climate negotiations; progress is made each year; but every year, year after year, that progress continues to be unsatisfactory, not enough to give us a significant chance of achieving the global climate agreement by 2015. what are we doing wrong ?
the commission's proposal to incorporate the durban decision on the accounting of emissions from land use and land use change came just after durban.
instead of just sticking to the minimum that was agreed in durban, on climate negotiations, the obligation and recording of emissions from forests, reforestation, rescue, forest management and so on, we went further: we have also made it compulsory for the european union and the member states to record emissions from agricultural activities.
in the legislation we have the obligation of the european union to take the lead in the climate negotiations, in order to make it mandatory at international level to record emissions from wetlands.
i think that in this way, if we continue in this direction, if we really get serious about our policies, if we make our policies more responsible, we can get to 2015 on a global climate agreement that we so badly need.
i would like to thank, in addition to all my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs on this report, who supported the introduction of compulsory annual agricultural emissions, as will be the case from now on.
i would like to thank my colleague, who dealt with this matter, mr elia preveza, mrs ulrike schöner from the socialist secretariat, the socialist adviser on these matters, mrs isobel findlay from the secretariat of the committee on the environment, the cypriot presidency and the european commission.
we have all managed together, through the use of rapid procedures, to conclude this negotiation at first reading and to start recording agricultural emissions by the member states as early as 2013. we have to get the global climate agreement by 2015, and we will get it.
but they also highlight very serious political issues, as they push for greater transparency and efficiency in our climate policy.
we need more transparency and more efficiency in climate policy.
but we will see it in action and we will always be vigilant in defending transparency and effectiveness in our climate policy, because the issue is too big and too critical to be left to mere words and good intentions.
if we move to step two, which is to measure the lulucf emissions against our targets, it will have a financially positive impact on member states, so it is in our interest that we all measure in the same way, and this is what we are doing with this legislation.
for every year from 2013 until 2020, the member states will have to announce their estimates for their agricultural emissions.
we should all be proud that with both these reports the eu has shown the world its commitment to climate action.
in preparing this, the commission has listened to the comments and suggestions from all sides and the final text demonstrates the commission’s unwavering commitment to assisting octs in their efforts to achieve sustainable economic and social development.
in that respect i would like to stress one substantial change that can be pointed out in comparison with the 2001 overseas association decision and which concerns the inclusion of a fully-fledged chapter on environment, climate change and disaster risk reduction.
the debate on sustainable, secure and affordable energy has only recently been formally reflected at european level, in particular in the treaty of lisbon.
however, despite the ambitious energy policy formulated by the commission, the eu's internal energy market is proving fragmented and performing rather poorly.
barriers to cross-border trade and the development of energy infrastructure and a lack of an institutional framework are perhaps the most important barriers to the energy market.
for greece, however, its successful and unhindered implementation is of particular importance, especially at the present time when the country is negotiating both the operation of the natural gas networks and following the evidence of the presence of energy deposits in the greek undersea area.
this report on the regulation, which i voted in favour of, facilitates and speeds up the hitherto extremely long procedures for the authorization of energy infrastructure in the member states (on average 12 years), which discourage investors, but also lays the foundations for the mobilization of significant investment funds in the energy sector and consequently the creation of jobs, provisions from which greece can benefit considerably.
i voted in favour of the report on transeuropean energy infrastructure, as i believe that the proposals it contains enhance the security and quality of energy supply, and that the considerable interdependence between member states makes a european approach to the problem necessary.
− i voted in favour of this report because accounting for land use, land-use change and forestry (lulucf) is a key element in climate policy with the potential, among other things, to contribute to mitigation, adaptation, conservation of biodiversity and sustainable use of natural resources.
i voted in favour of mr eickhout's report because i believe it makes a positive contribution to environmental protection through proposals to improve the measurement and identification of anthropogenic emissions contributing to the greenhouse effect which are not controlled by the montreal protocol.
the commission will also be preparing a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the implementation of the new rules.
the octs offer many natural advantages and opportunities for action in relation to the new challenges facing europe, such as globalisation of trade, new environmental challenges, climate change, etc.
− i voted in favour of this report as safe drinking water for european citizens is a core concern of policies in the fields of human health and environmental protection.
the rapporteur recommends changing the legal basis to the appropriate provisions relating to the protection of the environment, that is article 192(1) of the lisbon treaty.
− i voted in favour of the report because it urges member states to take all measures required to safeguard the environment and encourage sustainable development, while bearing in mind the need for a healthy and competitive economy.
it emphasises that local communities must have a strong say in deciding the best balance between the needs of people and the needs of their environment.
the multifunctional european agricultural sector has a clear added value to the european economy and a major role in addressing the socioeconomic and environmental challenges facing the union.
protecting the environment, biodiversity and natural resources from climate change is not a luxury; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
the creation of a framework for addressing issues of concern to both sides, i believe, will also help to promote issues such as human rights, labour issues, energy, nuclear, environmental and so on.
energy must be one of the most basic public goods for the citizens of the member states.
the javella report does not follow this logic, as it is entirely in line with the neoliberal orientations of eu energy planning.
it gives limited emphasis to the social dimension of energy policy, does not protect the rights of the citizen-consumer and does not promote practices to reduce inequality in access to energy.
further privatisation and full liberalisation of the energy market are its political priorities.
the report argues that competition rules are the key tool for achieving the completion of the single energy market, despite the fact that they give the strongest advantage to the union's economies.
the commission's proposals also underestimate the importance of renewable energy sources, energy efficiency and the reduction of the greenhouse effect.
the main negative of the report is the reinstatement of the increased importance of nuclear energy in energy planning.
i voted in favour of the report, as did my colleagues in the new democracy group, on the energy roadmap 2050, an own-initiative report without legislative force, but that does not mean that there are no points of concern, which were reflected in the group's individual negative votes.
paragraphs 9 and 103: the replacement of national energy objectives by global european or regional objectives constitutes a limitation of the possibilities or the multiplicity of national energy policy.
the reference to article 49 of the nabucco project, in which greece does not participate, even indicatively, limits the national energy network policy represented by other networks.
the text downplays, if not ignores (paragraphs 4, 18, 63, 64, 83), the extremely cautious attitude of the great majority of european citizens and member states towards nuclear energy and calls on the commission, in paragraph 63, to campaign to change public opinion in favour of nuclear energy.
i voted in favour of this report because endocrine disruptors influence the human environment, and if not addressed quickly can create irreversible damage to humans and the environment.
the same applies to the dumping of asbestos waste in landfills, which does not seem to be the safest way of eliminating the release of asbestos fibres into the environment, a problem for which the ep proposes the use of asbestos inactivation systems.
why is backloading happening when our environmental goals are being met?
the backloading is done to collect extra revenue from the back door for the states, and it is done mainly because its promoters refuse to admit that the economic objectives of our climate policy have failed miserably because of the american 'revolution' in shale gas and the 'defeat' of photovoltaics by china.
the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the introduction of a new energy policy.
the collapse of the emissions market means, quite simply, that citizens will suffer the huge deficit of the lagie as a 'res' (renewable energy sources) cost in their accounts.
mr president, commissioner, no one doubts the important role played by the ets in the functioning of the common internal energy market and the importance of investment in cleaner forms of energy.
i want to make it clear from the outset that i am against the institution of pollution rights in the context of a polluter-pays market.
i believe that the environment is not a commodity to be traded, to which we attach a price so that some companies can buy the right to pollute the air.
unfortunately, however, in the absence of an alternative, this european emissions trading system is the necessary evil, which establishes a framework and a procedure for adopting measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
my vote in favour of the groote report is not only a vote in favour of combating climate change and developing innovative and anti-pollution methods, but also a vote against the large multinational industrial groups which derive enormous economic benefits from the accumulation of unused rights.
the vote on the groote report weakens investment in low-carbon and renewable energy technologies.
i believe that without the active participation of industry it is impossible to reverse the course of ecological deterioration.
the so-called choice between jobs and a clean environment has been the wrong dilemma traditionally posed by industry.
the service supports member states in developing and implementing eu legislation on maritime safety, pollution from ships and general safety at sea.
it also has operational tasks in the field of oil pollution response, vessel monitoring and long-range systems for the identification and tracking of ships.
its mission is considered important, especially in the light of the new common fisheries policy, which strengthens its role in the control and sustainable exploitation of fish stocks.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we stress the enormous potential for economic development and the essential role it can play in the union's energy supply.
the eu has also made progress in the area of the protection of the environment, and the eu has also made progress in the area of the protection of the environment.
thirdly, investments which are destructive to the environment, which is a comparative advantage for mild tourist development.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
it is crucial that the development of renewable sources in the eu's internal energy market is done in a way that does not pose the slightest risk to food security, sustainable production of high quality food or the competitiveness of the agricultural sector.
it is also important to promote the use of alternative energy sources - especially those requiring small-scale infrastructure - within farms, and to inform both farmers and consumers.
the successful promotion of renewable energy sources can only be achieved through the contribution and cooperation of farmers.
the sustainability of the european project depends on regaining the confidence of citizens; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the first concerns energy and, in particular, the internal energy market, the existence of proposals for new energy sources and the very high energy prices which affect production in europe and therefore its competitiveness.
we must take into account the political climate; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we must not allow parliament to become a eurosceptic body, which would undermine the course of europe.
the european agenda for adequate, safe and sustainable pensions for both young and old which is presented in the white paper is an excellent starting point for discussion, after which reforms can be implemented by means of ‘soft law’, and also by means of legislation where necessary.
the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the report calls for the inclusion of yet another distressed country in the european union's hell, which will intensify the exploitation of workers to ensure the profitability of monopolies and the geostrategic and energy interests of the european union.
i will be very brief and ask the commissioner to explain the commitment the commission made in discussions with the environment committee to bring specific solutions to address ceta, the new trade agreement with canada.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
the first item on the agenda today is the recommendation for second reading by mrs frédérique ries, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on food intended for infants and young children and on food intended for special medical purposes and as a substitute for the whole of the diet for weight control and repealing council directive 92/52/eec, directives 96/8/ec, 1999/21/ec, 2006/125/ec and 2006/141/ec, directive 2009/39/ec of the european parliament and of the council and regulations (ec) no 41/2009 and (ec) no 953/2009 (oj l 347, 31.12.2013, p. 1).
the eu consumer policy strategy for the years 2014-2020 will include a set of initiatives geared towards ensuring food safety, health, energy, and financial aspects, amongst other aspects.
other essential factors are resources combating energy poverty and a set of objective and transparent criteria for the allocation of housing, subject to proper governance in the interests of an integrated approach and a social mix, thus combating various forms of discrimination.
this message has not been heard equally loudly in all the countries in crisis, although it is a prerequisite for the organization of a new, sustainable production model in the economy.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
mr president, commissioner, illegal fishing makes it economically, socially and environmentally impossible to manage the exploitation of the world's marine resources in a sustainable way.
it is one of the most serious threats to the biodiversity of our planet's seas.
the june european council will continue our focus on the goal of improving competitiveness, returning to strong and sustainable growth, and creating jobs.
this means restoring competitiveness, and unlocking the necessary investments across the union in growth that is smart, sustainable and inclusive.
in the current difficult economic climate, a strong eu industrial base is absolutely crucial.
the european council is expected to discuss action needed to assist recovery of european industry in the short and medium term and to ensure its long-term competitiveness and sustainability.
this is precisely why it must continue in order to ensure a return to sustainable growth.
we have seen, we have learned the hard way, that growth fuelled by high levels of debt, public debt or private debt, is simply not sustainable.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
the next item is the report by mr ivailo kalfin, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2003/98/ec on the re-use of public sector information (com (2011) 0877 - c7-0502/2011 - 2011/0430 (cod)) (a7-0404/2012).
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
this own-initiative report, which i voted in favour of, aims to involve the eu more actively, both in assessing the implementation of the declaration to date and in preparing for the period after 2015. the eu pays great attention to the combination of poverty eradication and sustainable development.
this does not mean reducing humanitarian aid spending but, on the contrary, better coordination of developed countries to make the most of resources, helping to create strong and sustainable economic infrastructures for the countries receiving aid.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the communist party of greece is opposed to the commission's directive and report because they constitute yet another bureaucratic mechanism which not only does not aim at protecting the rights of seafarers, the safety of human life at sea and the protection of the environment, but will instead be used to depress the price of labour to the lowest possible level, to maximise the profitability of shipowners and monopolies.
the vote will take place on wednesday 3 june 2013 at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the report by mr richard seeber, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on priority substances in the field of water policy (com (2011) 0876 c7-0026/2012 2011/0429 (cod)) (a7-0397/2012)
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
we have decided to change and we are calling for a change in the way medicines are authorized, in order to take account of their impact on the environment.
the water framework directive management plans are promoting its legalization to be used to produce energy equivalent to five wind turbines.
the commission should therefore consider whether there is a need for a specific policy for those areas which are currently suffering from a profound economic, social and ecological crisis, and it is important that the population which is being left behind by the basic and fundamental rights has access to health, education and a proper transport network.
coastal and maritime tourism in all its thematic expressions, aquaculture, blue energy, marine biotechnology, marine mineral extraction and, through them, the strengthening of shipping and the european shipbuilding industry are the areas of blue growth that can increase the size of the maritime economy to eur 590 billion by 2020 and with appropriate training policies ensuring a mobile workforce with adequate skills and experience, total employment in blue growth could exceed an estimated 7 million jobs by 2020. local, regional, national and european authorities should create the necessary conditions for sustainable development, such as systems of maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal zone management, upgrading infrastructure, access to professional skills, dissemination of information and best practices and, of course, ensuring adequate funding.
at a time of cutbacks in public investment in the member states, it is imperative that development policies, and in particular high-cost projects such as transport, communication and energy infrastructure, ensure adequate funding during the 2014-2020 programming period and beyond.
the primary prerequisite and key challenge is to ensure the full sustainability of blue development, i.e.
that it does not harm the highly vulnerable marine environment and at the same time contributes to combating climate change.
because certainly many professions depend on the sea, but we also often have pollution of the environment and degradation of marine biodiversity.
we also want proper maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal zone management plans so that the blue economy really benefits the environment, employment and the economy.
the new cooperatives, mr president, we would say cooperatives which meet the seven basic principles, play a very important role in the economy, in social cohesion and in social and environmental responsibility.
the countries in crisis are the ones that need the support of cooperatives most today, so that they can create new and sustainable economic activities and absorb the millions of unemployed in countries like greece.
i voted in favour of this report, which aims to strengthen and enforce roadworthiness tests on motor vehicles to improve road safety and environmental protection.
blue growth is the maritime arm of the eu's europe 2020 anti-people strategy, so that capital can take advantage of the latest technological developments to exploit traditional and new marine resources, with major investments in shipping, ports, coastal shipping and transport networks, sea corridors, and the extraction of hydrocarbons and minerals from the ocean floor; profitability opportunities in shipbuilding and ship repair, renewable energy, offshore, wind and marine energy infrastructure; the intensification of fish farming; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement.
given the increasing demand for food and energy and the scarcity of global natural resources, the search for new forms of production and consumption, and early planning towards this end - despite the obstacles posed by the crisis - is imperative for europe.
with plenty of hot money from the looting of the people's incomes, the monopoly groups will be financed for investments in fast and highly profitable sectors such as "green technologies", energy, transport, activities across the spectrum of economic sectors related to shipping and the sea.
this report proposes to extend risk assessment measures to all threats to health, whether of biological, chemical or environmental origin, while providing for the possibility of recognising a european 'public health emergency'.
it is obvious to all observers, however, that the new broadcaster must be more efficient and financially sustainable than its predecessor.
and the new scheme is coming and then there will be its costing and it will really show that it is a good, studied new scheme, which will answer what the public information in greece is asking for: a new scheme with quality, with valuable staff, with control and management and sustainability.
the ert has been a characteristic phenomenon of lack of transparency and an irrational waste of public money in the past years and decades.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
at the same time, beautiful pristine forests – so necessary to the earth – are being chopped down so that the land may be used, illegally or legally, for the cultivation of these energy crops, leading to more emissions.
what is the link between poverty, farming and increased emissions?
i voted in favour of the report as it suggests reducing energy consumption, traffic noise, air pollutants, greenhouse gas emissions, accidents and land use, thereby reducing the impact of transport on climate change and helping to improve the health and quality of life of eu citizens.
i voted in favour of the report as it stresses that the development of indigenous energy sources will lead to the emergence of new trading hubs in the eu and new markets for the direct distribution of gas and electricity, which presents a real opportunity for the eu and the member states to set their energy prices, inter alia, at regional and local level.
it also recognises the european added value of better coordination and cooperation between member states' energy policies, in a spirit of solidarity, and the creation of efficient and secure cross-border energy systems, so as to create synergies through improved management of energy supply and demand, facilitated by smart technologies at the distribution system level.
the eu faces serious challenges in achieving the target of reducing overall energy consumption by 20% by 2020, and in this context, policies to promote energy efficiency could and should play a more important role.
improvements in energy efficiency are crucial for european competitiveness and are a win-win option in the fight against climate change.
investments in energy efficiency measures can bring immediate and tangible benefits to households and businesses, such as reducing costs, creating jobs and growth opportunities, but can also encourage the transition to a low-carbon economy.
i voted in favour of this excellent report which aims to contribute to the debate on the importance of energy efficiency by assessing the results of cohesion policy measures targeting this area and presenting a series of recommendations to enhance the impact of the measures in the next programming period.
the report also attempts to clarify whether the objectives of cohesion policy at european, national and regional level are compatible with energy efficiency objectives.
it is a fact that cohesion policy is one of the most important sources of support for meeting the eu's energy efficiency targets.
the commission has proposed, for the next programming period, to allocate almost twice as much of the budget for this policy to climate-related expenditure, including energy efficiency.
it is also important that in view of the new programming period ending in 2020, all necessary measures should be taken to ensure that the eu 2020 targets are met and that cohesion policy measures on energy efficiency have a significant potential to meet those targets.
i voted in favour of this report as it aims to promote the development of a new community strategy in the field of fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian sea basin, in order to make a substantial contribution to the development of sustainable activities with a positive impact on coastal communities and the respective inland areas.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
as the author of the committee's opinion, i would point out that, according to our data, 85% of the reports relate to the issue under discussion, namely the adverse environmental impact of public and private projects.
i voted in favour of this report as it strengthens the role of the european parliament in the recruitment process for managers in the european environment agency.
the report and the directive, which are designed to be environmentally friendly, are once again masking the competition between the eu monopolies for their share of the eu's energy pie and the related subsidies from the community funds.
the eu sees the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions as another opportunity for 'green' business to tap capital overhangs in areas where it sees a comparative advantage over its competitors.
the report and the amendments concern the parts of the energy sector that will get a bigger piece of the pie, and those that will limit the loss of profits from the policy change.
the compromise of the report, which maintains the production of biofuels by reducing their share, does not solve the problem but, on the contrary, perpetuates it, it is a temporary balance between monopoly shares with no connection to the people's interests and the protection of the environment.
the question of the two paths of development and power is also raised here, so that proposals which are generally sound from a scientific and technical point of view, for example, for the production of zero-emission biofuels or the improvement of energy efficiency or the use of renewable sources in the whole energy mix, acquire a people-friendly content and do not constitute a means of increasing monopoly profitability at the expense of the people and the environment.
the present report, which i voted in favour of, focuses on achieving the pre-defined european environmental protection targets and, of course, on increasing the share of renewable energy sources in total fuel demand and consumption in the eu.
this debate is of interest to greece given the country's investments, especially in solar energy.
it is noted that the renewable energy directive sets the target of increasing the share of renewable energy in total eu energy consumption to 20% by 2020, and the corresponding share of energy in transport to 10%, targets which greece appears to be meeting.
however, this report also focuses on second generation renewable energy sources, and in particular biofuels, proposing solutions to avoid repeating the mistakes made with first generation renewable sources, such as issues related to the use of these forms of energy.
for example, the use of forest biomass requires particular attention as scientific studies currently question the greenhouse gas emission reductions achieved by the use of wood for energy.
what people can accept that the geopolitical interests of the united states of america, the european union and the monopolies for the control of the wealth-producing sources of energy and its transport routes can buy them into the boards of international legality?
it includes the promotion of an integrated, sustainable, competitive, european, technological and industrial base for defence with the participation of national defence industries according to their capabilities, the proper and unhindered functioning of the internal market in defence equipment, research and technologies.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
at the same time, the development of a common information exchange environment is essential for effective maritime surveillance and the identification and response to maritime challenges.
the problem has become very serious with the expansion of piracy and the great danger it poses, among other things, to europe's energy security.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
i also very much welcome the fact that you are looking into the area of strengthening the regulation concerning the environment, taking account of the improvements made with the special report on vienna airport.
it therefore remains largely unprotected in terms of living aquatic resources and their marine environment.
marine management, the protection of the marine environment and fisheries resources, and the control of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing have been shown to be better protected when there is an institutional framework.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the harmful effects of tobacco on the environment, such as the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tax, the introduction of a new tax, the introduction of a new tax, the introduction of a new tax, and the introduction of a new tax.
- the the directive we are discussing is a key instrument for developing environmental policy.
i do, however, consider the following points of amendment to be non-negotiable: public participation at all stages of projects, the submission of the whole of a project to an environmental impact assessment rather than parts of it, the strengthening of the assessment, the mandatory monitoring of the project from start to finish, the consideration of the negative effects on the environment in general and the development of environmental impacts in the case of natural gas and oil shale extraction.
there have been many violations, and that was one reason for the fact that the committee on petitions visited her - as it did recently; however, i would point out that recently a new bill has been introduced which makes it even easier to carry out such interventions as aquaculture plants, sewage treatment plants, waste disposal plants, etc.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
for many people, it represents the presence of the european union, the positive changes that it has brought to countries, at least as far as the environment and participation in development projects is concerned.
it is the directive that really increases democratic participation in consultations for development projects, which is the only way people have, in many countries, to defend their rights, to protect the environment and public health as established in the constitutions and in legislation.
also, on air corridors, we believe that there should be an impact assessment when we construct an airport, at the construction phase, where the airplanes pass into the air streams, otherwise there are issues of noise and pollution which affect citizens.
our aim is to adopt a truly sustainable development model in all member states, harmonized by common rules, taking into account biodiversity, the rational use of natural resources, climate change and natural and man-made hazards.
it is worth supporting the proposal for flexibility in the release of community resources, in the context of macroeconomic governance, in order to ensure that there are appropriate investments and those which can really contribute to sustainable development at local and regional level.
and yet, more and more often, more and more women in europe are victims of violent behaviour, most often within their own family or wider social environment.
the european union is also committed to the development of the region, and the commission is working with the european parliament to develop a common policy on the environment.
mr president, the absence or misguided policies of social inclusion create a climate of fear which then leads to racism and, in the process, to the abandonment of the roma.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
there were a significant number of referrals in the past year (1986 referrals) concerning the environment, fundamental rights and the internal market.
the eu needs to be more and more engaged in creating accountable, transparent, human rights-based and inclusive relations among partner governments, csos and las, in order to reach more sustainable development outcomes.
this is what a fisherman needs in order to have a sustainable, secure future and to have income.
the main lines of the mff 2014-2020 are: targeted capital grants for entrepreneurial action in new high-yield areas such as renewable energy, the digital market, transport, energy and telecommunications networks; the subordination of scientific research to the needs of capital by strengthening the 'centres of excellence' and by directly linking education with the big capitalist companies; the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the sole objective is to open up the markets of these countries so that the eu's monopoly enterprises and other imperialist centres can invade them, intensify the exploitation of workers and plunder the energy resources in particular and other resources of wealth available to these countries.
the commission also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which sets out the main priorities for the future of the european union.
the protection and promotion of creativity and culture are essential to strengthening the foundations and the future of european unity and sustainable development.
i voted in favour of the regulation, which focuses on projects of high european added value in the areas of transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure.
the aim is to create integrated transeuropean networks to ensure the development and competitiveness of the transport, energy and telecommunications sectors.
to achieve these objectives, the regulation provides, in terms of public transport planning, the means for implementing infrastructure projects, encourages research, technology transfer and development (economic and operational), and seeks to create the conditions for the eu to have efficient and reliable transport, energy and telecommunications systems that can contribute to the global competitiveness of its economy.
projects such as those covered by this regulation in the areas of infrastructure, transport, energy and telecommunications will bring greater european added value and ensure efficient and effective transport links, which will promote the equal development of all european regions, the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the eu, and the completion of the single market.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
it is true that in the past this fund has been accused of environmental damage and has been linked in particular to projects mainly of a construction nature and to waste of resources.
now, we can say that this fund is more environmentally friendly, more green and that it will finance projects that are important for the implementation of environmental policy but also for social cohesion.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
we can mention waste management projects based on the principle of the hierarchy of management methods rather than projects mainly for landfilling waste, projects for the management of water resources based on the water framework directive, projects that preserve and do not destroy water resources.
it is important that the european cohesion fund will finance projects to promote renewable energy sources and energy saving, both for public buildings and for housing, which is new.
this is particularly important in an era of energy poverty and can contribute both to job creation and social cohesion.
it also provides for the restoration of ecosystems and special natura sites, the protection of biodiversity and also the promotion of combined transport and multimodal transport systems, in contrast to the projects of the past which concerned only i.x cars.
we can do many things, and we can especially strengthen the participation of the local community in the planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of these projects, so that bureaucracy and waste of taxes and corruption are reduced.
mr president, i congratulate all the rapporteurs on their contribution to such an important issue as regional policy, which is setting rules for absorbing a total of 325 billion for the period 2014-2020. in the present economic climate, the structural funds are the most important instrument for stimulating growth and job creation.
the most important challenge for the future, however, is to create the right macroeconomic environment to attract foreign investors who will bring their businesses to europe and enable us to both increase production and maintain our jobs in our territory.
in greece, the 16 billion announced by the greek government and the european union are earmarked, as commissioner hahn said, for motorways and renewable energy sources, i.e.
the common dimension of the cap is being weakened and the potential for widening disparities in the implementation of the cap and in economic and environmental outcomes in each country is being increased.
the outcome of the negotiations, as reflected in this report, which i voted in favour of, provides greece with valuable resources for the next seven years, particularly in those areas which can act as a steam engine for the reversal of the economic climate and the achievement of sustainable growth rates, a growth based on the comparative advantages of our country and investment in human resources, research and innovation.
it is based on statistics and planning of the past five years which do not correspond to the current socioeconomic environment, as shaped by the crisis.
it is essential that the four main objectives supported by the european parliament in the negotiations have been achieved, namely greater flexibility for the regions in terms of thematic concentration, a more ecological approach with a higher concentration on low-carbon measures, more opportunities for job creation in enterprises, with a focus on small and medium-sized enterprises, and additional social aspects such as financing for sustainable tourism and culture.
in addition, greater power has been given to urban areas in decision-making on sustainable urban development issues and greater responsibilities have been assigned to urban authorities for projects related to the selection of actions.
the european parliament has succeeded in broadening the scope of the fund to include support for energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources in the housing sector and to allow support for high-efficiency district heating and cogeneration as an investment priority.
it is important that the investment priorities pay particular attention to environmental issues, that it will be possible to invest in the waste and water sectors to meet the needs identified by the member states and that reference is made to the regulation on support for the natura 2000 network and environmentally friendly transport.
this will facilitate territorial cooperation in areas such as public transport, energy, water, health, education and vocational training.
new threats are being added to the old ones, such as terrorism, cyber threats, the effects of climate change, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, organised crime, at the same time as emerging economies play an increasingly important role globally in the economic, military and political spheres.
the union has a wide range of military and civilian means at its disposal to deal with this complex new environment.
it talks about the importance of energy security and infrastructure security.
the commission's report is a good example of the need to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of the environment.
the life 2014-2020 programme aims primarily at developing and maintaining a european union network of enthusiastic promoters of eu environmental strategies and policies.
projects promoting the privatisation of both municipal waste management (with a focus on incineration) and collection, the privatisation of the country's water resources, the development and support, even in times of crisis, of trade in pollutants, the safeguarding of the environmental integrity of the res monopolies, especially wind turbine monopolies, and the penetration of monopolies in the electricity sector.
the life programme is considered one of the most successful european environmental action programmes.
the programme's contribution to the regeneration of the national forest of parnitas and to the restoration of the natural environment following the devastating fires in the peloponnese is cited, for example.
life's share of the overall eu budget, however, remains small at 0.3%, which is not justified by the major challenges that require an integrated environmental strategy in europe and the member states.
in 2002 we had the first access regime that brought forth some improvements but fish stocks did not return to sustainable levels and the commission has now come up with another proposal to phase out bottom trawling over a two-year period.
i voted in favour of the recommendation, as convention no 170 is an important instrument for the protection of workers, the environment and society in general.
the possibilities offered by space and space services can now be used to meet the needs of workers in the fields of environmental protection, transport, public education, health and culture, and protection against natural disasters.
this pro-monopoly orientation of the cap is complemented by eu maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal zone management, which allocates and delineates areas of activity and exploitation in coastal zones for the benefit of business groups operating in the various sectors linked to all economic activities related to the sea, from fishing and fish farming to tourism and energy production from the sea.
the european parliament has therefore called for future decisions on the principle of maximum sustainable yield, a fundamental rule for the sustainable management of fisheries, to be legally binding.
the benefits of this initiative are manifold, as it enhances marine biodiversity and fisheries fleets, as the costs of fishing activity are reduced in proportion to the density of the stocks.
finally, it should be emphasised how the new strategy enhances transparency by setting ecological, social and economic conditions, with emphasis on the availability of scientific data.
the effects of climate change and the increased frequency of severe natural and man-made disasters in recent years make it extremely important and necessary to have a designed european framework for civil protection.
through this regulation, the european union should contribute to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular the objectives relating to security of energy supply and improved market access for european businesses.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a major political issue and on the other hand we can very well meet european requirements through budgetary measures, give the european citizen more security and more confidence, mr president, in what europe is and what it feels it is.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
the new maritime sectors that have emerged in recent years are poised to contribute to much-needed economic growth, to contribute over one and a half million jobs, and even new ones; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european marine research area, the development of marine renewable energy, biotechnology, and advanced forms of tourism.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the marine environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the disorderly and simultaneous development of many activities at sea and on the coasts threatens the fragile marine environment, an environment which, at least in the mediterranean, is already under enormous man-made pressures.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the marine environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the report as it stands calls on neighbouring countries to aim at a common vision for the allocation of marine uses in our common sea for reasons of economic efficiency and environmental protection.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the marine environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
− mr president, the commission considers that the implementation of maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management across the eu’s sea basins is key to facilitating the sustainable growth of the european maritime economy.
risks related to natural hazards and climate change go beyond national borders.
both maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal zone management are equally important tools if we want to combine maritime and land-based planning and achieve sustainable and coherent use of seas and coasts.
although some member states have an exemplary approach, differences between member states are large and a european framework directive is necessary to ensure that marine activities are supported by appropriate coastal infrastructure, that the fragile coastal environment is protected and that citizens and interest groups are representatively and effectively involved in the decision-making process.
one of the conclusions of the independent annual growth survey is that an aggressive monetary policy to reduce sovereign spreads would, together with institutional advances, have an accumulated effect of 3% of gdp in ireland and 8% of gdp in spain and greece, not only helping in the recovery from the crisis but also contributing considerably to the sustainability of public debt.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
green innovation is an opportunity to change our economy and create jobs while protecting the environment and strengthening social cohesion.
i think that would be a very smart policy in this period of deep crisis, where we need not cuts in wages and the welfare state but strengthening of those economic activities which are much more sustainable.
the text of the amendment is thus: 'marine spatial plans and integrated coastal zone management strategies shall apply an ecosystem-based approach' and the addition is: 'taking economic, social and environmental criteria into account as equals'.
in this context, a year-long programme of cultural activities should be established through the cooperation of actors from the various sectors involved: from the artistic world, as well as from leaders and protagonists of social volunteering, and those involved in scientific research and environmental protection.
it is a competition between bandits fighting for the spoils: the resources, especially energy resources, the transport routes, the exploitation of the peoples of the wider region.