young people from croatia should be able to see their future in their homeland in order for the country to be economically and demographically sustainable.
these mines are primarily a safety problem, but of course they're also an environmental and economic problem.
we will present in writing issues such as the istrian terrain or the problems with radio and television broadcasting, especially topics related to energy production as an incentive for development and opening up the possibility of developing the istrian economy.
also in the context of the wider adriatic-ionian macro-region, i think it is important that fisheries, together with transport, environment and tourism, be one of the key activities and, in particular, in this context of the development of the strategy, i would call for an emphasis on prioritising the development of islands, and that is the sustainable development of islands, in particular by preventing depopulation and the departure of the population from the islands.
the report also accurately states that there are still problems in cooperation in the adriatic and also mentions that there are still significant parts of the adriatic that are not covered by ecological and fisheries zones.
in this regard, it should be emphasised that the ecological and fishing zone declared by croatia applies only to third countries, but not to the member states of the european union; but what is important and what is the main message is that it is precisely in the spirit of this report that those standards imposed by the croatian ecological and fishing zone in the adriatic must also begin to apply to the member states of the european union, i.e.
this question will, of course, be raised now when the political question of the demarcation between croatia and slovenia is resolved and this is an opportunity for such sustainable fishing and protection of the adriatic.
the establishment of the stock and maximum sustainable yield status in the adriatic and ionian sea is a priority for all coastal states in that area.
i also support efforts to ensure sustainable development in coastal areas with adequate environmental care.
we have recently discussed integrated maritime belt management in the environment committee.
i think that these are two compatible areas and that it is very, very important how we approach sustainable development, and since i come from dubrovnik, from an area where we have shellfish production and where the maloston bay area is protected, i think that this action plan that we will adopt soon will be very important.
as you know, this strategy and its action plan address, inter alia, maritime and marine issues, fisheries, aquaculture, marine environment protection and the related research and innovation dimension.
the commission is convinced that, to ensure the sustainability of shared fish stocks, all countries exploiting marine resources in the area have to play by the same rules.
- while i support the basic thrust of this report, particularly in the areas of environmental protection and endangered species in the adriatic and ionian seas, and i greatly appreciate the efforts made by the rapporteur, mr milan, in its preparation, i shall abstain from voting on this report in the european parliament today.
the suspension of the visa-free regime for third countries, which would occur as a consequence of daily political assessments by a member state, could further jeopardise the political and economic environment needed to implement structural reforms, in particular in the eu candidate countries.
only this could bring future to croatian fishermen and sustainable economic viability of croatian coastal communities, requested by this report.
the global trading system still depends on the transportation of vast quantities of the world's most important food and energy by ship.
as a representative from croatia, where local government units have major problems with financial sustainability, i welcome the efforts to raise awareness on this issue.
so i think it's imperative that local government and self-government units are geared towards investments that are sustainable and smart.
i believe that this confirms once again the european agreement, also at this level, at the level of the european parliament, that after the arbitration court's ruling and in accordance with the accession agreement, croatia will fully apply its ecological and fishing zone and thereby contribute to the protection of the adriatic sea.
this is the only way to ensure sustainable development and avoid conflict.
in the adriatic sea, where most of the exploited fishery stock is shared between several fishing fleets, an integrated approach and the establishment of dialogue is particularly important and a prerequisite for long-term sustainable development.
in this way, i want to support efforts to bring the integrated approach into line with environmental protection rules, but, in addition to the ecological dimension, the economic dimension of the sector's conservation and the economic benefits that fisheries bring, especially to local communities, must also be taken into account.
as a representative of croatia, the country that dominates most of the eastern adriatic coast, but also as a resident of a coastal region that lives largely on fishing, i am particularly interested in the issue of sustainable management of marine resources and the protection of fish stocks from overfishing.
through close intergovernmental cooperation and joint surveillance, we would eliminate the possibility of exploiting the existing fragmentation of the system that allows particular interests to prevail over the vision of sustainable development and the future that vision provides.
the integrated management that we talked about the other day, last week, coastal management is also very important from both an urban perspective and an environmental perspective.
the commission is therefore proposing to adopt a strategic framework for the mediterranean, to reconcile environmental protection and fisheries, to protect the fisheries fund and to establish the necessary common surveillance.
this legislation, which lays down control mechanisms and obligations for member states, will ensure that seafarers have a decent working and living environment.
mr president, this report mentions terms such as 'exclusive economic zones' and 'marine protected areas' and i would like to remind you that a few years ago, a few years before croatia joined the european union, croatia declared an ecological and fisheries protected area in the adriatic and, due to pressure from some member states and even the commission, put this zone in abeyance, that is, it did not apply to the member states of the european union.
this agreement, which concerns, of course, investment, must be part of a larger story, a larger package of measures, a long-term sustainable industrial policy of the european union.
finally, we must also consider in this context the respect for social rights and environmental standards mentioned in this resolution, and our ultimate aim must be to achieve balanced trade with china, to preserve production in europe and, of course, to create new jobs in europe.
− sustainable development and environmental protection are at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy.
one of the important instruments for ensuring the implementation of sustainable projects is the environmental impact study.
environmental impact studies are time-consuming and costly, which affects the dynamics of project preparation and implementation.
in particular, the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the environmental impact assessment and the implementation of the environmental impact assessment.
we need to continue to show flexibility, to change regulations and institutional mechanisms and thereby enable a more efficient and meaningful use of national and european budgets to strengthen entrepreneurship, the entrepreneurial environment, reduce unemployment and poverty.
so energy policy and climate change policy must be complementary.
we need to invest in innovation, we need to change the economy, we need to create economic growth, but i'm not sure that the changes in the energy system will come if we have too high a price on carbon dioxide.
madam president, it seems to me that the warsaw conference is an important interim step in the discussions we are having in the run-up to the new big deal in paris which will be a global agreement and a legally binding agreement on climate change.
i think this report, the fifth report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change, is a great impetus for the preparation of this debate, because it clearly indicates the key aspects that are the challenges to climate change in the world at this time.
the european union has also been a leader and a role model for all other global actors in meeting ambitious greenhouse gas reduction targets.
i think we need to continue this policy, and in doing so it's important to balance both our economic development and our social issues with what are the major issues of climate change and environmental protection in the years ahead.
cooperation, communication and synergy between csos and las are fundamental aspects needed to achieve better local democracy and in order to reach more sustainable outcomes.
education should be brought closer to the real working environment, and the training of teachers is a prerequisite for this.
money intended to encourage the employment of young people should be directed towards the development of the labour market and a favourable business environment which will thus create a favourable atmosphere for the creation of new jobs, and should in no way be social assistance.
as i have said before, we are helping the eastern partnership countries in a practical way: facilitating trade with them, helping them on their way to energy independence, liberalizing visa arrangements and allowing the widest possible freedom of movement for citizens of these countries.
i am a resident of one of the croatian islands myself, and i want to emphasize how deeply i believe in protecting the sea, the marine resources and the coastal belt from over-exploitation and pollution.
however, i believe that we must find a compromise between the ecological and economic components when considering aquaculture.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms.
the protection of the environment in the service of preventing overfishing is also an argument worth considering, but it is precisely controlled aquaculture and mariculture that is one way of preventing overfishing without reducing fish consumption.
i support the view that this issue should be addressed by environmental regulations, not by withholding aid.
(without the microphone) i support the common fisheries policy and, of course, the principles of sustainable fisheries which you have recently adopted.
so we have to talk about controlled aquaculture because it's about stable employment, it's about safe food, it's about good environmental management, it's about innovation, and all of these are pillars of an aquaculture industry that is capable of growing and that can affect the fish deficit.
mr. chairman, many climate change panels point to the alarming escalation of the impacts of climate change, but also to the fact that preventing climate chaos is still possible.
in the arctic and elsewhere in the world, climate change is more than obvious.
it just seems uncompromising, especially today in a time of great crisis when we think that protecting the environment should not be a priority.
there is certainly a need to reconcile environmental protection, sustainable development and economics and economic growth.
however, if we do not put in place a legal framework which will impose on the member states, and not just the member states, but also on those other countries, third countries, as we like to call them, then only if we have reliable partners will we be able to implement the 7th environment action plan.
the main priorities highlighted in this programme, such as reducing co2 emissions, protecting and providing drinking water, developing bioenergy and renewable energy sources, developing environmentally friendly infrastructure, etc., and their successful implementation are of long-term interest to all eu member states.
the main policy-makers aiming to ensure sustainable development and a green economy should therefore be those actors who assume their responsibility on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity.
as some global economies see through the short-term impact of such policies on their profits, it is important to keep stressing that long-term growth in gross domestic product and the progress of our society in general can only be ensured through the sustainable protection of our living space.
it used to be generally accepted that any economic growth was necessarily bound to and only possible with an increase in material and energy consumption, and that such growth also had very unpleasant consequences, commensurate with the increase in emissions and pollution of all kinds.
by aligning with the eu's current environmental standards, generations of outdated, dirty and energy-inefficient technologies are being abandoned in favour of new solutions that will ensure not only an environmentally sustainable planet but also its economic progress in the long term.
is it that we are failing in our promise to do our utmost to restore the economy and create a climate in which creating jobs is at stake?
i support the recommendations made to member states aimed at growth and development, tackling unemployment, strengthening competitiveness and improving the business climate.
the republic of croatia shall be bound by the european semester mechanism from the beginning of 2014. participation will be accompanied by the active implementation of the recommendations made by the eu council, the adoption of realistic economic programmes and a sustainable budget that shows the effects of the measures implemented and the accompanying gradual reduction of deficit and debt within the framework set.
this area therefore needs to be further stimulated in order to increase its contribution to sustainable growth and employment, and this programme makes a sensible proposal to do just that.
europe must not allow the pearl of mediterranean culture, dubrovnik, to remain isolated in a highly unstable environment, as this would not only be a blow to european culture and the croatian economy, but also a significant security problem.
- i strongly support this proposal because its content recognises the key role of transport in europe's sustainable growth and development.
those parts of europe that are not adequately connected in terms of transport, energy and telecommunications cannot be competitive or expect to prosper.
finally, i would particularly welcome the adriatic-ionian motorway project, which complements the adriatic-ionian gas pipeline agreement and is covered by the cef, thus bringing together the transport and energy dimensions.
since i and other colleagues from croatia owe our place in this house to the victims and croatian defenders of vukovar, as well as to all others who left an indelible mark in the defense of the homeland, i decided to dedicate my speech today to the war-traumatized environment.
i am very pleased to have the opportunity to speak to the european parliament on the subject of sustainable tourism development in the mediterranean countries.
it is therefore extremely important that now, on the threshold of the economic crisis, strategies for sustainable development are defined at european level, principles of preserving space, the environment, and the coastal belt is the most densely populated habitat in europe, and only we can... (the president interrupted the member)
mr president, first of all, i congratulate our rapporteurs on the reports on the agenda today and the commission and the council on the negotiations, and i commend in particular our chair of the committee on budgets, mr lamassoure, for representing the consistent position of the european parliament in these negotiations, as seen in the fulfilment of the conditions that led to the adoption of the 2013 amending budget, the basic legal texts and the working agreement of the high level working group on eu own resources.
we want to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive development.
this requires investments in innovation, technology, science, education, environmental protection, and sustainable energy.
although this budget for 2014-2020 is reduced by 0.12% compared to the previous perspective, by directing resources towards smes, working on innovative clusters for regional growth, creating a business environment conducive to innovation, investing in lifelong learning, building attractive regional infrastructure we can reverse the trends.
reducing costs in some sectors will ensure more resources for areas such as research and innovation, external relations and energy, transport and infrastructure projects.
cost saving is the only proper and possible way of increasing revenue and establishing sustainable economic development in the member states.
croatia needs to follow the positive examples of other member states and to enhance cooperation in relation to the financial transaction tax which will be a basis for sustainable development and new job opportunities.
i particularly welcome the increased allocation at the beginning of the period for the youth employment initiative and the potential allocation of additional funds that will be needed in 2016 to ensure the sustainability and effectiveness of that programme.
young people have an innovative spirit and a particular energy, enthusiasm and creativity, and it is important for all countries to give them the opportunity to spread their knowledge through the exchange of knowledge and experience, participation in research, involvement in new, non-formal forms of education.
this project, the connect europe facility, covers transport, energy and telecommunications, which means that we want to open up the backbone of europe to the future common market.
− mr president, the connecting europe facility is an important tool for economic growth and job creation in the eu through investment in transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure.
without undermining the principle of subsidiarity, the connecting europe facility shall lay down the conditions, methods and procedures for granting financial assistance in the trans-european networks sector, with a view to supporting projects of common interest in the areas of transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and climate change, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment.
− the multiannual management plans for fisheries and farmers are the backbone of the long-term sustainable fishing and farming system, bringing stability to fishing and benefits to the agricultural sector.
eur 330 million per year is intended for developing the rural sector in croatia and must be wisely distributed to support sustainable development with emphasis on ecological agriculture at small and medium level, which is connected to tourism and recreation.
− i support this initiative which will mitigate ecological problems in my country such as salinisation of rivers caused by dams in neighbouring bosnia and herzegovina which leads to summer wildfires.
as both croatia and bosnia and herzegovina are members of the unece, hopefully this convention will help us resolve important ecological issues such as hydroelectric power plants which cause a great disturbance in watercourses, water and sediment retention, leading to floods in the winter and draughts in the summer.
this results in diminished biodiversity, with increased windflow from the mainland affecting the climate.
the convention will authorise us to adopt legal, administrative, economic, financial and technical measures to reduce the transboundary impact of pollution and set up programmes to monitor the condition of such transboundary watercourses.
these provisions will enable us to set up bilateral or multilateral cooperation, consultations on issues of common interest, joint monitoring and assessment of pollution levels, joint research actions and the exchange of information, the setting up of an alarm system to warn of critical environmental situations, with mutual aid to be provided if necessary, ensuring that the public is kept informed.
− i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the proposed measures of radiation protection and the responsible and safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste and the closure and clean-up of former nuclear power plant sites and installations in third countries are important for achieving a higher level of nuclear safety.
i believe we are all very familiar with the arguments that go into the benefit of this initiative, from financial to environmental to organizational.
the report is comprehensive and covers many important areas from health, environment and climate change to nanoscience and the nuclear activities of the joint research centre (jrc), and we know that these topics are of common interest to all eu member states.
satellite navigation systems are increasingly used in a growing number of economic sectors, in particular transport, telecommunications, agriculture and energy.
as the development of the use of satellite navigation brings great benefits to the economy, society and the environment, i fully support this proposal.
the commission will continue to support the development of the union's energy policy, in particular through the establishment of a european energy union (eeu) and the european energy charter (echel).
− this european social fund framework contains all the necessary policies to promote and improve employment opportunities, strengthen social inclusion mechanisms, fight poverty, support the creation of sustainable and quality jobs and avoid precarious forms of employment.
i also believe that the esf has an important role to play in promoting education and lifelong learning, and that support for active, inclusive and sustainable policies contributes to economic, social and territorial cohesion.
i particularly support investment in the waste sector, which is becoming increasingly problematic in all the countries of the union.
by investing in new ideas, initiatives, young people, science, environmental protection and the development and promotion of natural and cultural heritage, we can achieve cultural and economic progress.
i support all elements of this proposal that will make the fund more effective in creating jobs, fostering innovation and protecting the environment.
finally, i would like to highlight one very good segment of the report, and that is the step towards renewable energy.
the report encourages us to provide more efficient sources of energy and that is a good thing, it is an incentive that aims to make us aware that we live in a better harmony with our natural environment.
with this very concrete move, it should be emphasized how important it is that all sectors, both public and civil and private, are involved in the process and only in this way will we achieve our common goal of a higher level of green and healthy energy independence.
the cohesion fund's primary area of action has remained financial support for projects related to environmental protection and support for trans-european transport network projects focusing primarily on transport infrastructure.
however, the role of the fund has also been deepened in the area of renewable energy sources in the household sector, which i certainly welcome.
the seemingly negative statistics also mean a great environmental potential, and eu funds or programmes are the right way to achieve it.
this confirms that food production in the european union is a priority and of strategic importance for the stable economic growth and sustainable development of all member states of the union.
a wide range of projects that improve the quality of life and promote growth and development in rural areas will be able to be financed, from municipal and entrepreneurial and social infrastructure to energy efficiency projects and financing of various forms of modernisation and extension of agricultural production.
the specific geographical characteristics make the croatian rural areas suitable for the development of renewable energy sources, the financing of which is also provided for by the new cap.
− to ensure sustainable rural development, it is necessary to invest in the main priorities related to education and innovation in agriculture, forestry and rural areas.
in addition to lack of information, farmers in europe are also exposed to increasing economic and environmental risks due to climate change.
this will help to keep young people in the villages and to make agricultural production sustainable.
reducing the impact of the human factor on climate change is an important segment of building a conscious society.
within the programme, i particularly welcome the provision that puts a clear focus on global social challenges, by funding research and innovation that addresses citizens' concerns about today's crucial issues, such as climate change, food security, energy scarcity and drinking water.
this programme will play a central role in ensuring smart and sustainable development and implementing a strategy aimed at excellence in research and innovation.
the conservation of nature and biodiversity is very important and the focus on nature, water, waste, air is all welcome, and the principles of solidarity and efforts to ensure adequate geographical distribution when choosing integrated projects.
i welcome the programme and the sub-programmes on environmental protection and climate change, as well as the establishment of a different approach, which is above all synergies and ensuring coherence.
mr president, unlike my colleagues, i want to welcome this fisheries policy because i believe that this is the only way to preserve the sea and to make us sustainable.
so this fisheries policy is both social and economic and it speaks most of all about environmental sustainability.
mr president, i am pleased that in recent years there has been a change in the union's fisheries policy and that we are now all aware of the importance of sustainable fishing for the future of our fishermen and the preservation of the marine ecosystem.
so i don't see why we should be particularly careful about their social and economic sustainability.
i believe that this new reform must lead to an end to overfishing and must lead to the sustainability of the fisheries fund, without losing sight of the social sensitivity of the sector itself.
i believe that small-scale traditional fishing must be protected because it is the most sustainable in its essence and is in the specific interest of each individual fisherman.
i wanted to bring the work of the european parliament closer to the younger generations, but also to highlight the specific problems of the environment from which they come.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the union's action in the field of climate change.
i believe that the money from the egf should be made available as soon as possible to countries experiencing an increase in unemployment, a decline in production, and in particular to member states for whom the mobilisation of the egf is a means of preserving sustainable growth.
i support this agreement and stress that there is still much room for improvement, particularly in the area of environmental protection.
this will in turn, through space observation tools and software solutions, help implement various eu policies in areas such as agriculture, environment, fisheries, transport and telecommunications.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on space and the union's policy on the environment, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment.
− despite the potential and benefits for entrepreneurs, i voted against this proposal on the grounds that it involves significant risks and challenges for citizens, the public sector and the environment, breaches of fundamental rights (including privacy and data protection).
mr president, i would like to point out that i have supported the innovations and reforms in the common fisheries policy because the emphasis is on ensuring sustainable fisheries.
the two important segments of the proposed reform are the prohibition of discarding of unused catches and the achievement of maximum sustainable catches.
the commission has also proposed that the maximum sustainable yield be set at the level of the maximum allowable catch (msy) for each species in the mediterranean sea.
− although slavonia, where i come from, is landlocked, i am aware of the importance and impact of the common fisheries policy on economic, social and environmental developments in croatia and the european union.
the new eu common fisheries policy is extremely important for croatia, and i support the main measures it contains, especially those relating to sustainable fisheries and respect for the catch quotas that will be set for each member state.
the new cfp leaves room for the extension of the harmonisation of rules and fishing strategies to those member states and fleets whose economic and social sustainability would be seriously threatened by the abrupt adoption of a new cfp, in addition to the 2015 deadline by which all member states should have adjusted their quotas.
after long and exhaustive negotiations between the political groups in the european parliament, many compromises have been reached which i believe represent a healthy balance between environmental concerns and the interests of the deep-sea fishing industry.
- in recent years, the number of natural disasters has increased, as was to be expected in view of climate change.
in the eu, the term civil protection covers all activities that in the republic of croatia we call protection and rescue, and it refers primarily to the protection of people, but also to the protection of the environment and property, including cultural heritage, which i consider to be the greatest wealth that croatia has brought to the union.
mr president, as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i want to take part in this discussion and explain my negative vote.
the ets system is recognised as a useful tool for reducing industrial emissions in the eu in a cost-efficient way.
the aim of this policy is to stimulate carbon prices through market-based measures that would positively influence investment in renewable energy and low-carbon technology, leading to the reduction of carbon emissions.
the ets created a price-based market which stimulates the carbon market.
however, due to unexpected macro-economic developments, industrial emissions decreased and consequently created an imbalance in the market as the increase in supply plus the reduction in demand created low prices for emission certificates, thereby stunting competition, disabling sufficiently sustainable scientific and technological innovation and, in turn, reducing investment in the carbon market.
− i voted in favour of this proposed regulation on defining criteria determining when recovered paper ceases to be waste.
pursuant to directive 2008/98/ec on waste, certain specified waste ceases to be waste once it has undergone a recovery operation and complies with specific criteria to be developed in line with legal conditions laid down in the directive.
as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, this topic interests me greatly because if we do not take care, improperly treated waste can become a hazard for the environment and peopleʼs health.
in particular, i welcome the fact that in this report, as well as in the european commission's action plan, sustainability and innovation are recognised as two key components on which the future of the european automotive sector must be based.
i am therefore pleased that with this report and the plan we are seeking to create an environment in which innovation can become both quality standards and best practice.
as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i would like to stress that we must also pay more attention to low levels of exhaust gases in addition to the necessary regulation relating to both energy and environmental protection.
mr. president, i voted strongly and decisively against this report which was initiated on my own initiative and which has taken up a great deal of time, energy and emotion on all of us.
so why would we impose societal values on each other, especially in sensitive areas, and waste so much time on issues that should never have been on the agenda of this house?
volunteering is of utmost importance in times of political, economic and environmental crises that we face every day.
it was introduced to ensure a social environment conducive to the development of volunteering, to prevent possible abuses, and to protect volunteers and volunteering organisers.
at the same time, sustainability and credibility based on an established track record remain important considerations for member states.
they include political, social, economic, environmental protection and numerous other issues.
but security today has increasingly social, economic, energy and environmental dimensions.
increasingly large and frequent climate change is a multiplier of existing threats and adds a new dimension to human negligence and security risks.
cooperation between the european union and non-member states through this resolution can be achieved in several areas, for example in the fields of economy, energy and other resources, but also in strengthening democratic principles and rights such as gender equality, the rights of persons belonging to minorities and the fight against discrimination.
the european neighbourhood policy goes beyond the current relationship between the eu and its neighbours and offers them a deeper political relationship and economic integration with the aim of achieving sustainable democracy.
the croatian development cooperation policy is aimed at poverty reduction and at achieving sustainable and inclusive development, with a special approach to countries affected by conflict.
the promotion of economic cooperation, people-to-people cooperation, so-called networking, joint research efforts in the field of renewable energy sources, and the encouragement of joint projects are just some of the aspects which could have a positive impact on the european union's relations with third countries.
it is of the utmost importance to us, for the international dimension of the implementation of our europe 2020 strategy, and in this way we are trying to implement the basic guidelines and principles of european policy, including energy policy and competitiveness and research policy, both in economic terms and in terms of climate change.
as these mechanisms have proven to be of vital importance for peace in the european environment and, consequently, for security within the eu itself, since their introduction in 2007, i welcome this decision.
sustainable development is also a hugely important issue that we have to deal with more and more.
by introducing this instrument and providing functional mechanisms for it, significant progress can be made in developing new technologies, materials and thinking that will bring us closer to the essence of sustainable development.
madam president, competition policy and the smooth functioning of the single market are key to tackling the crisis, boosting growth and achieving sustainable development.
state aid in croatia is increasingly geared towards increasing investment activity and sustainable growth.
i welcome the rapporteur's call on the commission to make efforts to ensure the competitiveness of the european shipbuilding sector by promoting shipbuilding in the eu, which is facing increasing competition in the international environment.
finally, i support the implementation of the commission's antitrust measures in the energy sector.
croatia with its liberalised energy market can serve as an example to the eu accession countries as a successful example of adaptation to the acqis.
i believe that farmers must be guaranteed a sustainable working process even after the abolition of quotas because of the cost disadvantages of production in these areas.
− despite the continuing support and programmes of european countries in attempts to prevent and reverse the consequences of climate, economic and other factors, in the areas most affected by such crises, namely the horn of africa and the sahara, further efforts are needed.
i continue, as a member of the committee on the environment and human health, to stress the importance of raising awareness in europe and working with governments of developing countries to put the initiative into action.
the commission will continue to support the resilience and sustainability initiative for developing countries, as the proposal aims at continuous investment, as opposed to the current short-term investment in the form of humanitarian aid.
women and girls with disabilities can have equal rights and opportunities with valid gender policies and access to public administration, education, medical care, information and movement in the physical and social environment without barriers.
in addition to a better and more quality life for women and girls with disabilities, their full economic and social participation is crucial for the europe 2020 strategy to succeed in achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, which benefits society as a whole.
with more than 15% of the european population being people with disabilities, statistics show the importance of taking action and creating a friendly environment on equal terms.
in addition, attention should be paid to the sustainability of the european social union in the long term, as well as to strengthening the social dimension of emu through the social pact and the building of a social pillar, emphasising that employment and social policy are the real policies of the european union.
with some 88 million people working in the eu's maritime regions, sustainable growth is needed and i believe that this will certainly increase.
but as the representative of a country that has, i would dare say, one of the most beautiful coastlines in the european union, the croatian coast, and many natural resources, and, in addition, as a member of the committee on the environment and public health, i must stress the importance of preserving ecosystems, which means that it is necessary to find a balance between economic, social and natural environmental factors and to preserve the coastal and marine system for future generations.
mr president, as i myself come from a coastal area, i am aware of the challenges we face in reconciling maritime and coastal activities and ensuring sustainable development.
the achievement of some of the union's main objectives in this regard, such as encouraging the development of marine energy sources, promoting the accessibility of ports and enhancing the sustainable development of the fisheries and aquaculture sector, would bring great benefits to this community and thus to the republic of croatia.
i also believe that we will only achieve integrated mediterranean governance by declaring exclusive economic zones in the mediterranean member states, because the current state of reduced control leaves too much room for those who do not put sustainable development first.
it is also important that coastal management strategies also take into account the use of natural resources, in particular energy, infrastructure development, energy, ports, maritime works, take into account fisheries, take into account aquaculture and ecosystem management, and their protection in coastal sites that are sometimes vulnerable to climate change.
the adoption of the adriatic strategy will provide the basis for the sustainable development of maritime and coastal economic activities in the adriatic sea.
we're all advocating for new green spaces and for parks and for integrated management of those spaces to save the globe from this situation that's happening with climate change.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the aid on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests, including the impact of the aid on the environment.
mr vice-president martinez, i welcome the report by our colleague mrs kadenbach and am pleased that it is precisely the issue of environmental protection, environmental innovation, which is linked to a key aspect of the economic development of the european union, namely growth and jobs, particularly through environmental policy.
on this topic, i also organized a panel in croatia a few days ago that linked the topic of environmental protection and climate change.
the kadenbach report makes a good suggestion to turn to innovation in one of the most important areas of human activity, namely environmental innovation, which in our time is and will be the key to achieving smart and sustainable growth and constant investment in new jobs.
here i want to recognize the strong potential that my country has in this area and i deeply hope that we in croatia will also know how to recognize the importance of economic benefits in this area of environmental innovation, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises where there are obvious opportunities for new specialized jobs in this field.
in the difficult economic times in which many countries of the european union find themselves, particularly those in our east and our south, environmental innovation, investment in renewable energy sources, is a refreshment that we should wholeheartedly support.
and that is why i am very happy to support this excellent report because it sets a good direction for the strategy of smart, stable and sustainable development.
how to enable development while preserving the environment is a question that many governments across europe are asking themselves.
some of the answers can be found in this high-quality report entitled 'the eco-innovation: growth and jobs through environmental policy'.
eco-innovations can be a multitude of things: a new filter for wastewater treatment, thinner and stronger steel to reduce waste material, or a business model that sells repair services instead of products.
these are the technologies that will be most quickly adopted by the young, the generation that has had the opportunity to be educated in new directions and occupations related to the environment.
in the context of economic crisis, we have a unique opportunity to reshape the way sustainable development is achieved.
this report calls on the commission to continue to work towards the vision of a european union based on an economy that is resource-efficient and low in co2 emissions.
− this resolution is another good indication that, in addition to preserving the environment and the quality of life, it is also an opportunity for economic growth.
i also agree that green technology jobs should not be limited to renewable energy production; energy efficiency improvements should also be targeted at the transport sector.
i support this directive and, as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i welcome the programmes implemented by the eu to research eco-innovation.
− i support the concept of eco-innovation, which combines environmental protection with growth, competitiveness and job creation in a way that balances reducing greenhouse gas emissions and reducing the use of water and raw materials in production.
if we are to achieve sustainable management of our coastal and marine resources, coordination and cooperation between member states is essential.
with 88 million people working in the eu's coastal regions, sustainable growth needs to be ensured, as i believe that number will surely increase.
but as the representative of a country with one of the most beautiful coastlines in the eu and certainly a lot of natural resources, and as a member of the committee on the environment and public health and food safety, i must also stress the importance of preserving ecosystems, which means that it is also necessary to find a balance between economic, social and natural environmental factors and to preserve coastal and marine ecosystems for future generations.
− i welcome the initiative to change mayotte's status from an overseas country or territory to an outermost region or territory, and the application of eu law to mayotte from 1 january 2014. in view of the specific social, environmental and economic situation in mayotte, certain measures are necessary to bring it into line with the standards of the european union, but i agree that this process of adaptation should be gradual.
a number of transitional periods and arrangements are needed, in particular in the area of waste water treatment, water management, the replacement of non-enriched cages for laying hens, but also to satisfy minimum health and safety requirements relating to the exposure of workers to risks and the rights of patients in cross-border healthcare.
their inclusion in the fisheries sector would not only reduce unemployment but also have an impact on the sustainability of fisheries.
in addition to defence policy, the importance of sustainable economic growth should also be emphasised.
in addition, it makes a significant contribution to the key eu policy objectives of increasing employment and job creation, economic benefits and biodiversity.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environmentally sustainable use of energy.
i support this proposal primarily because it's good for human health, reducing heat waves in cities where 60% of the population lives, and also helping to fight climate change.
the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's environmental policy and its implementation in the member states.