the development of urban areas requires complex development programmes that serve sustainable economic development and at the same time result in the creation of 'livable' cities.
the energy-related objectives of the europe 2020 strategy cannot be achieved without support from the structural and cohesion funds.
in the field of energy policy, we must keep in mind the objectives of security of supply and sustainable development.
energy networks play an important role in developing regional competitiveness and creating jobs.
the danube region also has several areas with high energy prices, vulnerable consumers and often security of supply problems.
in january 2009, the gas crisis showed us firsthand that regional energy challenges cannot be tackled by a central planning office or by individual national solutions.
however, the cyprus presidency can achieve significant results in the area of the common energy policy.
the completion of the infrastructure package is a real milestone towards the creation of a single energy market.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the union's energy market is not affected by the energy crisis.
the liquidity of the markets in central and eastern europe remains low and former state-owned energy companies often have significant market power.
− with 73% of the eu population living in cities, these inhabited areas accounting for almost 80% of the eu's gdp, 70% of energy consumption, and as centres of innovation, knowledge and culture, engines of economic development, cities play a key role in economic growth and the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy.
at the same time, it is important to bear in mind that cities are also the focus of problems such as environmental pollution, high unemployment, poverty, the main causes of climate change, etc., and therefore require complex developments that produce livable cities, sustainable economic development.
i agree with mr cozzolino that, in order to promote the social and economic development of cities, we need to rethink the methods of urban development and spatial planning and start comparing planning practices and instruments of intervention that can enrich environmental, territorial, commercial, transport and feasibility policies through a multi-use of land that integrates physical infrastructures with a system of non-physical relationships.
− in the current economic climate, 'better spending' is more relevant in europe's regions, as all european citizens want to benefit equally from cohesion policy support.
− in the current economic climate, it is clear that cohesion policy support is becoming increasingly important for europe's regions and that greater care must be taken to ensure that funds are used more efficiently, so that citizens can fully benefit from european funding.
on the one hand, because the regulation on the fund for the relief of the distress and of the losses of life caused by the central european floods, originally established in 2002, has not been amended in 10 years, and because the number of natural disasters of this type has increased in recent years, partly due to global warming, and the entry into force of the amended regulation coincides with the beginning of the next mff period.
i agree with the way in which it is stated that member states are not in the same position and that sustainable and growth-friendly strategies should be put in place that are consistent with the country-specific recommendations and that also take account of the steps taken by the member states concerned to achieve financial consolidation.
fiscal equilibrium based on inflated revenues created by a bubble economy ought not to have been considered sustainable in the first place.
i also welcome the fact that the irish presidency intends to address a number of important issues closely related to the above, such as the challenges of sustainable financing of leisure sports.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
for example, wind energy must be delivered to the mainland of europe.
currently, the unused quasi-surplus wind energy generated in the netherlands is not reaching the inland, landlocked areas of europe that are less rich in wind energy resources or are not, because the necessary infrastructure is not in place.
i welcome the commission's plans to devote a significant part of the connecting europe facility budget to the development of energy infrastructure.
between 2007 and 2013, regional policy will allocate €105 billion for sustainable growth, and it is also crucial that managing authorities strive even more to invest more and more successfully.
the close link between regional innovation policy measures and investments in energy, environment and climate change will stimulate job creation, competitiveness and raise living standards at both local and regional levels.
strengthening eco-innovation requires smart investment, from energy-efficient buildings to clean urban transport.
however, investment should be supported by the promotion of sustainable development principles at all levels of policy-making.
of course, the civil use of nuclear energy may still be needed, but it is essential from a safety point of view to eliminate the risks of dual use.
and i'm not just talking about the financial sustainability of health care systems, but also, for example, improving the living conditions of older people, helping them to exercise regularly.
according to the un food and agriculture organization, this has already led to a significant decline in catches of 2% in 2012. aquaculture, on the other hand, ensures sustainable fish production.
freshwater fish farming, for which hungary has excellent potential, not only contributes to food security but can also create a significant number of jobs and help maintain biodiversity, as freshwater lakes, as aquatic habitats, provide habitat for numerous bird and other animal species, most of which are under natura 2000 protection.
in my view, a well-functioning single market creates a competitive environment in which smes can better exploit the opportunities offered by globalisation, which would open up new opportunities in the fields of knowledge and innovation.
i deeply regret therefore that the commission has not paid even more attention in the 2013 annual growth survey to regional policy and its usefulness in attaining the europe 2020 strategy’s goals of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
transport and digital), the annual report on the integration of the single market should also pay greater attention to people with disabilities, who currently still face serious difficulties in the built environment and in services that are not accessible to them.
i agree with mr howitt, the rapporteur, that social responsibility is crucial to restoring business confidence, to a sustainable economic recovery, especially now that we are in a crisis.
i can tell mr howitt that less would probably have been more in this case, because not every single area, from environmental protection to ratification and compliance with international legal standards, from various investment policies to collective bargaining, can be solved in this vineyard.
in this sense, countries cannot afford to waste the potential of any part of their population.
this reminds us that we need a sustainable budget that includes provision for the most vulnerable of our member states and citizens, therefore i urge the member states to put aside their differences and short-term electoral views and remember the principles on which this union was founded: solidarity and long-term vision.
this is essential for the proper functioning of the internal market and for ensuring a high level of environmental protection and public safety, as well as for improving health and quality of life.
i agree with the report's recommendation that the commission should carry out an impact assessment of the labelling conditions applicable to air and noise pollution levels.
i also think it is important that consumers are provided with information after purchase on how the quality of use and maintenance affects car emissions and how both consumption and noise emissions can be reduced.
although noise pollution is a more local problem, it requires a solution at eu level.
the union has a strategic interest in preventing climate change and combating global warming.
taiwan is the 20th largest emitter of carbon dioxide on earth, and that's why it has voluntarily committed to reduce its emissions and join the global goals of the un framework convention on climate change, even though it has not been able to join until now.
i also ask the commission and the member states to work to ensure that taiwan, like all committed allies, can join the convention in order to achieve its climate change targets by 2020 and 2050, respectively.
your bank plays a vital role in the recovery from the crisis, in the sme sector, in the modernisation of infrastructure, in the challenges of competitiveness or climate change.
i consider it important to stress that the eib's objective is to create more economically sound projects that support social and social cohesion and job creation in line with the changed economic environment.
the spectacular reduction of the gap between citizens and businesses increases citizens' trust in businesses, which is necessary for a sustainable economic recovery.
through smes, csr can spread much faster and smes in the same sector have the opportunity to tackle similar social and environmental problems together.
this is essential for sustainable economic growth and to mitigate the social impact of the crisis.
it is also necessary to define specific measures within the framework of corporate social responsibility aimed at combating misleading and false information about the environmental and social impacts of products and services.
i also support the recognition in the 2013 annual growth survey that a comprehensive shift towards sectors that promote sustainable growth and are rich in green jobs is needed to recover from the crisis and that measures should be taken in parallel with structural reforms to overcome the crisis in order to improve competitiveness in the long term and to ensure the sound functioning of the european economy and to restore confidence.
− the european investment bank (eib) is becoming an increasingly important player in the future of the eu in achieving the european union's objectives of boosting economic growth, strengthening its capacity for innovation and industry, investing in infrastructure, and strengthening employment, social, welfare and environmental policies.
to keep energy prices under control, the unimpeded flow of energy must be ensured.
while energy infrastructure is developed in western europe, there is still a lack of physical connectivity between central and eastern european countries, which means that the single market is not functioning.
this is why our region's energy markets are characterised by unilateral energy dependence and high energy prices.
this could also lead to strategic investments to ensure uninterrupted energy supply in a crisis situation.
as investment in central and eastern europe has a good chance of qualifying for preferential status, i see a chance for the first time in 60 years to reduce the unilateral energy dependence of our region.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
in this context, it is necessary to emphasise again and again certain ambitions of the energy roadmap 2050, which, although an extremely important document and an excellent summary of the current situation, has little basis in reality for some of its objectives.
the transition to 100% renewable energy by 2050 is in principle a worthwhile endeavour, but in practice some member states, such as hungary, are unable to achieve this due to their geographical location, let alone financial constraints.
as a consequence, if nuclear energy is phased out by 2050, hungary, along with several other member states, will not be able to meet its energy needs on its own.
despite the disaster that occurred two years ago, we must remain objective about nuclear energy and support the search for a more controlled and safer system rather than a mindless dismantling.
in summary, the european energy roadmap 2050 must be designed in the spirit of having a number of member states that rely on nuclear energy.
reducing europe's energy dependence, reducing co2 emissions and ensuring the security of energy supply are all objectives to be achieved.
in addition, widespread access to cheap, yet environmentally friendly and easily manageable energy is particularly important for the population.
and renewable if you can.
only these two technologies, with the knowledge and the inventory we have today, can guarantee the entire energy supply of the earth with cheap electricity for the next 150 to 200 years.
if we don't waste the gas to generate electricity, it's enough for 150 to 200 years.
or if it is competitive on a market basis with the energy production methods proposed above.
we socialists are primarily in favour of energy-saving solutions, including the insulation of family homes and the energy upgrading of apartment buildings.
investing in energy efficiency can reduce household recession bills in the long run.
instead, we need investments that keep our energy bills down, that guarantee the security of our energy supply.
these include insulation of panel houses and other buildings and the development of renewable energy sources.
it is particularly important that the european parliament pays particular attention to the social impact of energy prices and the problems of vulnerable households.
more than 260 000 energy-efficient renovations of panel housing have been carried out in hungary under the panel programme launched by socialist governments.
the complex energy renovation was financed by eu recovery funds, state aid and the residents' own contributions.
in hungary, the national atomic energy office maintains an office in the paksi nuclear power plant site, where it constantly monitors the operation of the units, and even in the office's headquarters, they can see online all the data they need to see about the operation of the reactors and the plant.
in addition, euratom and the international atomic energy agency are carrying out audits and coordinating their work.
the lulucf sector, which is the land use, land use change and forestry sector, is not currently included in the greenhouse gas emission reduction commitments.
the greenhouse effect, described by fourier in the 19th century, is causing our planet to warm slowly and, if we do not act to stop it, could have unforeseeable consequences for all life on earth in the long run.
global warming caused by human activities over the past decades may lead to a series of climate and climate changes that, among other things, could reduce agriculture and, consequently, the gross national product of eu member states, due to extreme natural conditions.
the kyoto convention declared that emissions of the gases responsible for the phenomenon (mainly co2) must be gradually reduced by 2020, and the eu has already taken a number of measures to this end.
the european union is also at the forefront of the world in introducing strict rules to curb global warming.
european societies rightly expect eu leaders to take decisive action on environmental protection, even outside the eu.
the eu has a moral obligation to use all diplomatic means to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
− having participated in the debate on the report and voted for it in the committee on energy, i agree with its reasoning that a sustainable, secure, uninterrupted and affordable energy supply is one of the major challenges that unites europeans, from civil society to decision-makers, industry and environmentalists.
although the commission has set ambitious energy policy objectives on competitiveness, security of supply, sustainability and decarbonisation, the internal energy market is characterised by insufficient integration, a high degree of energy isolation in certain geographical areas, inadequate access to diversified energy sources that contribute to energy security, and a lack of tangible benefits for consumers and businesses in terms of prices and sustainability.
for example, one eu research project based on the rio benchmarks showed that hungary's exposure to climate change is not too high and therefore there is no real need for further measures.
the reality, however, is that several regions in my country are increasingly vulnerable to climate change and that significant structural transformation is needed to overcome the disadvantages.
when we talk about human health and environmental policy, it is essential that all eu citizens have access to safe drinking water.
a well-designed and comprehensive legislation, with an effective control mechanism, including for the most vulnerable citizens, a differentiated treatment of natural radioactivity and man-made pollution and transparent public information, would reduce possible future costs as much as possible.
these costs, which would be reflected in health care or the cost of purifying drinking water, should be paid by those who cause radioactive pollution.
− access to safe drinking water is a priority in eu health and environmental policies.
i voted in favour of the report as the budgetary proposals and policy guidelines set out in the report are fully in line with the europe 2020 strategy and can help the eu recover from the crisis and set the union's economy on the path to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
however, researchers confirm that there is still a huge potential for increasing both the number and the scope of social enterprises by creating a more favourable environment for their operation and establishment by enhancing the accessibility of funding, tailoring regulatory conditions to their needs and providing wider recognition.
− environmental legislation is a very important part of eu law and it is therefore essential to have a clear, consistent and non-overlapping set of rules that allows member states to implement it effectively and quickly.
inadequate implementation of eu environmental legislation can be caused by a number of different reasons, which vary from one member state to another.
this is why i consider the report to be important, because it takes account in detail of the difficulties encountered by member states in implementing eu environmental rules and offers solutions to these problems.
however, it should also be ensured that european farmers can produce biomass for energy.
energy forest with a cutting cycle of up to 20 years.
the 20% renewable energy target, without deforestation, is not going to be achieved.
energy forest, biomass for energy purposes, offers more environmental benefits than land clearing and also provides a significant income supplement to farmers.
i believe that the pragmatic approach proposed by the co-rapporteurs roberto gualtieri and rafał trzaskowski is the only sustainable and applicable one in the current context and given the timeline we have to work with.
the current climate of economic crisis, and the high level of fear and rising xenophobia does not help integration.
the number of seats in the european parliament for each member state will change from 2014 because the treaty of lisbon limits the number of meps to 751 instead of the current 754, while it is planned to include representatives of croatia, which will join in july 2013. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
− reducing europe's energy dependence, reducing co2 emissions and ensuring the security of energy supply are all objectives to be achieved.
widespread access to cheap, yet environmentally friendly and easily manageable energy is important.
these are the only two technologies that, based on what we know today, will guarantee the entire energy supply of the earth with cheap electricity for the next 150 to 200 years.
if we don't waste the gas to generate electricity, it's enough for 150 to 200 years.
− energy production in modern times is based on much more complex conditions than in the past.
therefore, the focus should now be on energy planning and management of existing systems, thereby ensuring sustainable development.
it is essential for such vital functions as reproduction, growth, and development, as well as for the flow of energy that is essential for the functioning of the body.
the increase in the price of carbon dioxide was a stimulus for green investment in its time.
without investment, the artificial support of the carbon market is diverted to financial support of the state budget and energy companies, increasing the burden on the processing industries and the population.
the specific hungarian aspect is that per capita greenhouse gas emissions are lower than those of developed countries, so the proposal in this form also makes it difficult for us to catch up.
so i think we're on the right track, and we need to take decisive steps to reduce emissions overall.
the executive director, who is the head of the board, will also be responsible for preparing regular reports on enisa's work for the members of the committee on industry, research and energy.
if the measure increases the price of co2 allowances, my country could get higher revenues, which would enrich the central budget by 50% and provide funds for investments in climate protection and green economy development by 50%.
however, i am aware that the measure may be burdensome for electricity producers and energy-intensive industries and may also have an indirect impact on electricity prices.
in my view, the problem identified is twofold: on the one hand, ground handling is not sufficiently efficient and, on the other hand, its quality in terms of reliability, flexibility, protection, safety and environmental protection is generally not keeping pace with changing needs.
visa facilitation is only effective if adequate human rights guarantees and a social environment free of hatred make the country attractive.
it is also about creating financial stability, strengthening national responsibility, solidarity, achieving sustainable growth.
on the positive side, this could put sovereign debt on a sustainable path, gradually restore market confidence and, optimistically, even allow for moderate and sustained growth in the non-euro area.
− following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011 of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011. t. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget i. the agency had to recruit most of its staff during its first year of operation, resulting in delayed filling of vacancies thus having a significant impact on the agency's budget implementation rate and delaying estimates of procurement needs, leading to a concentration of procurement procedures by the end of the year, resulting in high levels of transfers in order to comply with the signed legal and budgetary commitments the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the audit.
− in the context of the closure of the accounts for 2011, on the basis of the court's annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing.
− following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european environment agency in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget.
− in the context of the closure of the accounts for the year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of postponing parliament's decision on the discharge to be given to the executive director of the european environment agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing.
we can all see that to overcome the current problems, several building blocks are needed: such as financial stability, strengthening national responsibility, solidarity, achieving sustainable growth.
the court of auditors in its report for the financial year 2011 pointed out that the agency's statute was still not in conformity with article 54 of the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community.
the final audit report concluded that the financial and compliance reviews of the aeronautical and environmental projects did not reveal any serious deficiencies.
− following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the european joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy and iter in the context of the closure procedure for 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget.
− in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the director of the european joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy and iter in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing.
we have to acknowledge that serbia has come a long way, as it is ready for the first time to discuss a sustainable deal for kosovo.
the fact that, for example, the mayor of belgrade, dragan dilas, expresses his full support for the negotiations makes me hope that a sustainable and pragmatic solution can be found.
but we have to find a sustainable solution.
the decision-making procedure of the union itself relies on the highest possible quality demographical data, but they are also an essential indicator for measuring the sustainability of public finances.
the imprisonment of bloggers, journalists and human rights activists, the restrictions imposed on freedom of religion as well as the high rate of executions by death sentence demonstrate the heavy climate of repression faced by vietnamese citizens.
moreover, we support renewable energy sources not only with national resources but also with european legislation.
this gives us a direction of the vector, even if we do not know its exact size, since member states are free to decide on the energy mix.
the fact that energy prices have increased by 38% since 2010, especially in the new member states, is a major burden for many european consumers.
i agree that we need sustainable energy efficiency solutions, investments that keep utility bills down.
it is regrettable that the share of renewable energy in hungary has not increased significantly since 2010. as the author of the biogas report, i know that the main obstacle to the spread of renewable energy today is the high cost of the technologies, and that is why it is crucial to encourage research and development in europe.
i think the report is forward-looking in its idea of the union supporting renewable energy cooperatives.
the eu's energy imports are not sustainable in the long term: we currently spend €400 billion a year, or more than €1 billion a day, on them.
imported energy can be substantially replaced by clean, renewable energy produced within the eu.
the eu's renewable energy policy is a success story that deserves to be continued.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
the eu could easily produce substantially more renewable energy than its 30% share, which is why i support a target of more than 30% by 2030. i also agree that a longer-term objective is urgently needed, one that provides a predictable future for the industry by 2050. renewable energy has a strong support from eu citizens and can help households reduce their energy bills.
the main reason for this is that renewable energy technology has undergone tremendous development in recent times.
there are several renewable energy sources that are cheaper for consumers than fossil fuels, such as biomass heating from gas.
the use of renewable energy in industry and agriculture, as well as in international trade, will make the eu more competitive.
the promotion of renewable energy is of strategic importance for europe's competitiveness.
the use of green energy not only benefits from a climate protection perspective, but also reduces the union's fossil energy imports and stimulates the economy.
thanks to the efforts made so far, the use of renewable energy is growing at a planned rate, with the expectation that by 2020 20% of europe's energy consumption will be covered by renewable energy sources.
the increase in green energy is also creating unexpected problems for energy market players.
the increasing share of solar and wind energy in the grid, which is subject to weather-related fluctuations, poses a new challenge for transmission system operators in terms of security of supply.
in several member states, the rapid growth of renewable energy generation is also hampered by the inability of national grid development investments to keep pace.
delayed infrastructure developments increase the risk of transmission networks becoming overloaded, causing disruption to energy supply.
in the absence of adequate infrastructure, renewable energy production not only burdens the national grid but also the transmission system of neighbouring member states, causing significant losses to market players in those member states.
this is the only way to ensure that renewable energy production does not become the driving force behind the creation of the single energy market, but becomes a success story for the union.
the hungarian government's measures do not take into account long-term sustainability.
they cancel out the sacrifices made by current pensioners and hungarian workers in the past for the sustainability of the pension system.
therefore, and in order to ensure the sustainability of the hungarian pension system, the predictability and decent living standards of pensions and the future of the young generation, an urgent pension reform is needed in hungary.
i am glad that the council is dealing with the energy issue in addition to tax havens.
now is the time to make some important decisions about one of the biggest fixed costs for businesses and citizens, energy.
we know what needs to be done at eu level to ensure a secure energy supply from fewer raw materials and with greater efficiency.
we know that in the digital age, access to energy is a matter of being or not being.
in order to keep energy prices under control, the single energy market should be established as soon as possible.
this is why the energy markets in the cee region are also characterised by unilateral energy dependence and higher energy prices than the eu average.
the establishment of the single market does not require further legislation at union level, as the 2nd and 3rd energy packages provide a suitable basis for the establishment of the union energy market.
the infrastructure package adopted in march this year is also an important step forward in ensuring the smooth flow of energy.
despite the consumer protection provisions of the energy package 3, energy bills remain complex and do not provide an answer to why energy prices have increased significantly in recent times.
regulation is also too permissive in several member states, so that energy suppliers are not obliged to provide consumers with an adequate level of information.
these are legitimate and fair demands that could have a sustainable and positive effect in building the future of europe.
− the role of renewable energy is unquestionable, as it is of major importance in reducing the member states' dependence on fossil fuels, helping to maintain or strengthen their competitiveness and in achieving a long-term reduction in household energy costs.
we need to create a regulatory environment that is predictable and provides certainty for investments that increase renewable energy production and efficiency.
in addition to increasing the share of renewable energy, the efficiency of current wasteful systems also plays an important role, which should be promoted in eu cohesion policy.
− i voted in favour of the adoption of the reul report, as it stresses the importance of renewable energy in terms of both environmental considerations and reducing europe's energy dependence, and the importance of winning consumer support.
i myself believe that the efficient use of renewable energy can be one of the keys to the eu's future competitiveness.
as the report shows, consumers are the main beneficiaries of the completion of the internal energy market and progress in this process should be supported.
i also agree with the part of the report that stresses the importance of r & d, as it is indeed a key issue for renewable energy.
the european commission has published a report on the implementation of the eu's new strategy for sustainable development.
the sustainability of the pension system requires the proper functioning of both the public and the private pillars.
− the sustainability of european pension systems is a major challenge which is closely linked to the steady ageing of the eu population, whereby the number of people of prime working age is constantly shrinking, in parallel with the long-term rise in life expectancy.
member states therefore cannot afford to waste the potential of any part of their populations and investing in the socio-economic integration of those who are currently excluded from the labour market is more than a matter of human rights: it also stands for good economic sense and contributes to the sustainability of eu economies.
as for terrorism, diversification has continued, meaning that in addition to centralized terrorist organizations like al-qaeda, we have to expect a greater degree of radicalization of lone perpetrators and young people who have been raised in ordered civil circumstances, in the european and north american cultural environment, and who have become susceptible to terrorist ideologies.
in my view, a clear, predictable, stable and transparent tax environment within the single market is in the interest of both businesses and citizens.
it is a pity that this resolution does not include the clause already contained in several european parliament resolutions, which stated that the competitiveness of european farmers should be protected by including the application of the european union's animal welfare, environmental and food safety standards in international trade agreements.
the agreement on fuels and chemicals would be particularly beneficial, as it would develop industry and the energy market, thereby providing european citizens with cheaper energy.
the danube strategy adopted during the hungarian presidency focused on sustainable development, creating a livable, environmentally friendly danube region.
sustainable development should be a key element of any future macro-regional strategy.
given that macro-regional strategies can effectively contribute to the europe 2020 strategy and the objectives of sustainable development, and also promote the active involvement of society and stakeholders in all phases of the strategy, i believe that more attention should be paid to these strategies in the future.
furthermore, many roma still face the risk of statelessness, and there is still no comprehensive policy to ensure the sustainable return of internally-displaced persons or their complex local integration.
one of the key guarantees is that imported products must meet the same food safety, environmental, animal welfare and other standards as european products.
i support and think it is very important that we give priority to the issue of food waste, because 90 million tonnes of food are wasted every year in the european union, which represents more than half of the eu's gdp.
in addition to reducing emissions, another very important step is to support energy-saving investments.
we have the european union's support for this, and we need to offer as many alternatives as possible, green energy, and eliminate waste.
this should generate revenue that can be used to fund road renovations and also to finance the remediation of environmental damage that occurs.
given that legal aid and training of experts involve costs for member states and that in the current economic environment the financing of such services may be limited in many member states, we call on the commission to provide, where possible, specific resources to ensure that member states are able to provide high-level legal training in legal aid matters.
member states should therefore start a dialogue with the construction industry in order to develop a better business environment and regulation for social housing, with special regard to the establishment of building targets, the arrangement of infrastructural costs and supply of development land.
and the third is the question of the energy market, and the question of regulated competition, the question of consumer approach in this monopolistic market.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
− i voted in favour of the report, as it touches on almost all important aspects of europe's economic policy, from energy policy, the state aid system and the greener economy to the completion of the full internal market.
if prime minister erdoğan is serious about engaging in sustainable dialogue, he should stop his divisive speeches and meet the representatives of associations present at taksim square, and not just hand-pick a few of them.
there the media must act with a markedly higher standard of responsibility precisely because they operate in a democratic environment.
however, it is important that you do so while paying particular attention to labour and environmental standards, passenger rights and respect for european regulations.
at the same time, greater attention should be paid to labour and environmental standards and passenger rights.
in addition, the failure to fulfil their obligations has led to certain ships operating in unsafe conditions, thus posing a threat to both human life and the marine environment.
as you know, i myself, in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, have summed up in eight points why i consider the tavares report to be absolutely unworthy and have recommended that it be removed from the agenda.
moreover, the european environment agency and the scientific community predict a rise in extreme weather events in the next decades.
we need more and better data to assess the role of climate change in those disasters as well as accurate flood risk maps as provided for in the floods directive.
young people are not only waiting for unemployment to be addressed, but also for legislation to help expand the digital age, so that the internet is accessible to everyone, so i ask you to consider the digital agenda, broadband and investments in energy networks as priorities.
the need for credibility in the field of the union's energy policy is particularly acute, as citizens are still not aware of the benefits of the common energy policy.
for example, energy markets in the new member states continue to be characterised by poor infrastructure and energy prices above the eu average.
the situation of the baltic states is, moreover, similar to that of hungary , which is even more vulnerable than average, since they depend on a single energy exporter due to a lack of infrastructure connections.
the establishment of the single market does not require further legislation at eu level now that the second and third energy packages provide the appropriate basis for the establishment of the common energy market.
the eu's energy policy is particularly encouraged by the fact that lithuania is taking over the presidency.
lithuanians know that a common energy policy means not only lower prices but also a guarantee of independence.
i am therefore confident that the presidency will do all it can to ensure that the member states implement the single energy market as soon as possible and that their external energy policies are better coordinated.
the security of europe's energy supply can only be guaranteed through the single market and coordinated action by the union.
i voted in favour of the mandatory mid-term review, which will allow the union to mobilise more money for community purposes in a more favourable economic environment.
the common commercial policy is not only intended to protect european producers and consumers from products from third countries that do not meet european standards for the environment, animal welfare and food safety, but also to promote european agricultural exports to markets outside the eu.
the following point is inserted in the annex to the report by corinne lepage on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 98/70/ec on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and directive 2009/28/ec on the promotion of energy from renewable sources (com (2012) 0595 c7-0337/2012 2012/0288 (cod)) (a7-0279/2013)
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture.
for the first time, the eu is partially backing away from a renewable energy target.
this will have a negative impact on all future investors in the renewable energy market.
we reject the multiple accounting for second generation fuels, except for electricity generated from renewable energy, where we propose to increase it from 2.5 to 4 times.
he has put on the table an excellent, very good report which sums up very well the problems of the current energy market.
let's find solutions that will reduce energy costs.
due to the catastrophic nature of cyanide and the cross-border nature of the pollution, most eu member states have banned cyanide gold mining and, indeed, the european parliament adopted by an overwhelming majority in 2010 a resolution, which i co-authored, calling on the european commission to ban cyanide gold mining altogether in the eu.
it is not clear why it does not require the investor to take out adequate environmental liability insurance.
the romanian government submitted a bill to parliament at the end of august that allows the opening of the gold and silver mine in verespatak from 2016. this creates an environmental risk that threatens not only romania but also the water catchment areas of the carpathian basin.
the development of intermodal hubs, the coordination of suburban and local transport would be the key to reducing air pollution in cities and in the outer suburbs.
i am convinced that one of the european parliament's most important tasks is to protect the environment.
all the points in the report before us are of great importance, but i must emphasize that we must take account of the possibilities of renewable energy.
only together with environmental awareness can europe regain its rightful place in the world.
this is a very important report because energy efficiency is a vital part of our task to restore the european union's economy.
therefore, they should be required to pay lower rates and be offered credit facilities, including risk capital, which enable them to cover their own energy needs.
i welcome in particular the ideas contained in the report by mrs kekus, which are aimed primarily at improving energy efficiency.
this is a highly important issue as energy efficiency investments can have significant economic and social benefits for member states, thereby contributing to increasing the union's competitiveness and employment, in line with the europe 2020 objectives.
at the same time, our efforts in energy efficiency can lead to further successes in the fight against climate change.
i believe that, in addition to the positive effects on the business sector, reducing the energy dependence of households is also of paramount importance.
in this area, concrete solutions are needed to stimulate investment in improving the energy efficiency of households, thereby promoting more cost-effective operations.
in hungary, the current government has also faced the problem of skyrocketing energy prices, leaving many families financially destitute and unable to continue to use basic energy services.
however, in addition to the exemplary reduction action plan of the hungarian government, further measures to promote energy efficiency are needed.
− the single energy market is the key to ensuring that consumers have access to energy at affordable prices and without interruption.
of these, i consider the following three proposals to be particularly important: first, the unexpected difficulty in several member states was that national grid development investments could not keep up with the rapid growth of renewable energy generation.
secondly, a significant proportion of eu energy products are internationally traded, which is why supervision at eu level is essential in addition to national supervision of wholesale trade.
this presents a new challenge for the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators and national authorities.
this is partly due to the lack of investments that can offset the surge in renewable energy production.
− i support the initiative to promote energy efficiency, the report sets out the steps taken to strengthen europe's energy efficiency, one of the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy.
it is also worth noting that investments in energy efficiency can have significant economic and social benefits for member states, thus helping to increase the union's competitiveness and employment, which is also in line with the objectives of the 2020 strategy.
in addition to the positive effects on the business sector, reducing households' energy dependence is also of paramount importance, and i agree that solutions need to be found to encourage investment in improving household energy efficiency.
− i support the amendment of the regulation on the european environment agency and the european information and observation network as regards the procedure for the appointment of the executive director.
i agree with the fundamental objectives of aligning the procedure for appointing the director with the procedures for filling the post of executive director of other agencies, so that the competent body of the european parliament is formally entitled to hear the person selected by the management board of the european environment agency for the post of executive director before his appointment.
− the european union has recently made energy efficiency a priority and all member states are working to achieve the mandatory percentage target by 2020. to this end, i believe it is important to pay attention to the energy demand of the transport sector, which is showing an increasing trend, making it difficult to achieve energy efficiency targets.
in addition, further regulation is needed to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
the report aimed at curbing the use of conventional biofuels could create a dangerous and disadvantageous precedent for hungarian farmers in terms of supporting renewable energy and ensuring the eu's energy independence.
we hope that the new ombudsman will not hesitate to remedy situations that violate the fundamental rights of national minorities and to take a strong stand against violations of environmental standards.
let me note that janez potocnik, the commissioner responsible for the environment, did nothing to prevent the investment in the verespataki cyanide mine and to ban cyanide mining in the eu, where the risks to human life and environmental values were not considered, and sacrificed them on the altar of industrial interests!
strengthening the capacity of sub-national actors for the absorption of structural fund assets and increasing the flexibility is of utmost importance, especially given the outstanding role that structural funds play in employment and sustainable development, and consequently in social inclusion.
i think it is very appropriate that, in line with technological progress, we can tighten up these limits, both from the point of view of the environment and from the point of view of health.
i'm thinking of emissions, but also other limits.
i would like to stress this in particular in the light of the fact that there is now sufficient legal basis for the withdrawal of unsafe watercraft, whether in terms of their value to property, their user value, human life or environmental protection.
the so-called remit regulation, which aims to make wholesale energy trade transparent and gives acer a mandate to carry out union market surveillance, is of prime importance for the creation of the single market.
acer's market surveillance activities fill an important regulatory gap, as cross-border trade has been boosted in parallel with the development of the single energy market.
on the other hand, the regulation provides that only registered traders may engage in energy trading activities.
it is essential for the transparency of international wholesale energy trade that the agency has sufficient resources to carry out its tasks with due diligence.
tibet’s nomadic lifestyle is one of the last examples in the world of sustainable pastoralism.
for centuries, tibetan nomadic herders have made a sustainable living uniquely adapted to the harsh conditions of the tibetan plateau.
i therefore urge the eu officials negotiating the bilateral investment agreement with china to pay special attention to the situation of tibet and include in the text clauses that ensure the protection of the rights and interests of the tibetans as well as the sustainable economic development of the region.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
many submissions indicate that citizens want a broader eu mandate in the area of fundamental rights or environmental protection.
the vote will be held on thursday 10 october 2013.
the next item is the debate on the report of mr todorov panayotov vladko on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety entitled 'portable batteries and accumulators containing cadmium' (com (((2012) 0136 - c7-0087/2012 - 2012/0066 ((cod)) (a7-0131/2013)).
in my view, the fight against climate change can only be successful on a global scale.
on the other hand, the unequal situation could put the eu at a significant competitive disadvantage, further increasing european energy prices.
at the 2009 copenhagen climate summit, the eu made the only ambitious commitment among developed countries, which led to the eu bearing the brunt of the burden alone during the first commitment period of the kyoto protocol, putting its member states at a disadvantage, and unfortunately this situation was also carried over to the second commitment period.
such access is fundamental to achieving women’s empowerment and sustainable development, as well as fighting against sexually-transmitted diseases.
- many of the so-called diseases of civilization are due to the food industry, environmental damage, inadequate living conditions.
written − it is shocking that the commission's impact assessment shows that in 2009, more than 90% of vessels flying the flag of eu member states were dismantled in humiliating ways outside the oecd countries, mainly in india, pakistan and bangladesh, with significant environmental and health impacts.
the environmental pollution would also be eliminated, and many jobs would be created, obviously more in the coastal member states.
the decision-making procedure of the union itself relies on the highest possible quality demographical data, but they are also an essential indicator for measuring the sustainability of public finances.
− i would like to welcome this report highlighting the role of local authorities and civil society in sustainable development outside the eu.
written − in the current difficult economic climate, unemployment is one of the greatest challenges facing europe.
i think that anyone who has read the international press's echoes of parliament's decision will be happy to say that it has been treated as one of the best, most forward-looking and most sustainable decisions of recent times.
this growing demand can only be met in a sustainable way by fisheries, and in particular freshwater aquaculture.
these fish species can be produced in a competitive and sustainable way in our country and their exclusion from aid is therefore unacceptable.
the next item is the debate on the report on electronic communications (2013/2080 (ini)) by catherine trautmann, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (a7-0313/2013).
written − i did not support the agreement on the european union's seventh environment action programme with my vote because it contains objectives that are contrary to hungarian interests and that pre-empt the outcome of future negotiations within the european council on the post-2020 climate and energy policy framework.
in my view, the decision on long-term climate policy objectives can only be taken at the level of the prime minister, as was stated in the conclusions of the european council of 22 may 2013, referring to the decision on the post-2020 climate and energy policy framework to be taken by the march 2014 council.
in the light of the above, it is not acceptable for hungary that the present environmental action plan anticipates the decision to be taken at the highest political level and sets legally binding targets for member states in the field of climate policy.
the report was brought to the agenda because the eu's environment action programme expired in 2012, and now the 2020 agenda and the 2050 vision have been drawn up.
the report helps protect the environment, so i supported it.
written − a number of issues should be properly addressed, from the huge radioactive emissions from mines and coal plants to the far more severe interference with the germination of gm foods than radiation.
it is for the member states to create synergies between the framework programme and the national regulatory environment so that the programme can make a real contribution to the objectives set.
in 2013, europe reached milestones in the development of its transport, energy and digital networks.
in designing transport networks, we should seek to promote less polluting modes of transport, which will make our transport system more sustainable.
in designing energy policy, it is essential to ensure that citizens and businesses alike can rely on energy that is available at an affordable price at all times.
ensuring open and fair competition in the transport, energy and digital networks markets is as important as i have said.
it is also necessary to build up and strengthen the capacity of cultural and creative sectors in the eu, with a view to promoting smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, and to help them to adapt to industrial and economic changes.
− the chernobyl accident in 1986 and the fukushima daiichi accident in 2011 showed that a nuclear accident can have a global impact on public health, social life, the environment and the economy that transcends national borders.
improved management of radioactive waste), can serve as an example for third countries to adopt similarly high safety standards.
the core rapporteurs have done a great job in order to reach a compromise that is both economically sustainable and ambitious.
the most effective way to improve the competitiveness of farmers is to reduce energy costs.
it is therefore important that 30% of rural development funds should be allocated to investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency improvements.
the energy plant will be eligible for direct aid, will be accounted for in the ecological target area and will be able to receive production-related aid.
it is vital therefore to enable the esf to promote sustainable job-creation and support labour mobility, invest in education, skills and life-long learning, promote social inclusion, foster equal opportunities and combat inequality and poverty as well as foster eliminating all forms of discrimination.
the sustainable labour market integration of young people, who are not in employment, education or training, is also very important, in particular for young members of marginalised communities, such as young roma.
− i welcome mr olbrycht's report, which calls for better exploitation of the synergies of the horizon 2020 framework programme, better consideration of the needs of regions facing demographic challenges, support for businesses in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy, and the creation of infrastructure accessible to all.
− i would like to welcome the initiative to allocate at least 5% of the erdf resources allocated at national level under the investment for growth and jobs goal to integrated actions for sustainable urban development as well as the future establishment of an urban development network to promote capacity-building, networking and exchange of experience at union level between urban authorities responsible for implementing sustainable urban development strategies and innovative actions in the field of sustainable urban development.
social and economic developments in urban areas largely influence its surrounding areas and bear proportionally more of the direct or indirect costs of economic productivity, such as congestion, pollution, spatial segregation or criminality.
− i welcome the fact that the cohesion fund has been extended to support energy efficiency and renewable energy in the housing sector from 2014. in the area of investment priorities, the fund shall pay particular attention to environmental issues.
this means, for example, that the aid is directed towards the following objectives: (a) low-carbon economy; (b) adaptation to climate change; (c) protection of the environment and promotion of resource efficiency; (d) sustainable transport; (e) improvement of institutional capacity and efficient public administration.
the cap is set to achieve the following objectives: (1) sustainable food production; (2) sustainable management of natural resources and action against climate change; and (3) balanced territorial development.
the cap rural development pillar is based on six priorities in agriculture, forestry and food processing: 1. promoting knowledge transfer and innovation; 2. increasing competitiveness; 3. promoting food chain organisation and risk management; 4. restoring, preserving and improving the state of ecosystems; 5. promoting resource efficiency and moving towards a low-carbon and climate-resilient economy; 6. promoting social inclusion, poverty reduction and supporting economic development in rural areas.
the following joint debate is scheduled on the following reports: report by teresa riera madurell, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the implementation of the framework programme for research and innovation (horizon 2020) (com (2011) 0809 c7-0466/2011 2011/0401 (cod)) (a7-0427/2012), and report by christian ehler, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the rules for participation and dissemination in the horizon 2020 programme (com (2011) 0810 c7-0465/2011 2011/0399 (cod)) (a7-0428/2012), and report by maria graça carra, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the implementation of the strategic plan for innovation and technology (horizon 2020) (cod) (com (2011) 0704/2011)), and report by philippe c.d.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms.
the next item is the debate on the report drawn up by mr jutta haug, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the establishment of the programme for the environment and climate action (life) (com ((2011) 0874 c7-0498/2011 2011/0428 ((cod)) (a7-0294/2012)
between 2014 and 2020, the life programme will have a budget of eur 3,4 billion, an increase of one third compared to the previous mff period.
preserving our natural and environmental values is a key issue for our future.
the new support programme will boost entrepreneurship, improve the financing environment and increase employment by making it easier and faster to set up a business, facilitating entry into international markets and encouraging young entrepreneurs to set up a business.
− horizon 2020 reinforces europe's leadership in an environment where europe has lost significant ground in recent years.
− this programme aiming at the promotion of a high level of quality and sustainable employment, as well as improving working conditions and enhancing the employment and educational situation of young people is responding to maybe the greatest challenge facing the eu.
i support the amendment of the title and the consequent extension of the regulation so that it covers social progress as well, which is an unmissable prerequisite for sustainable and inclusive growth.
the new cfp should pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e.
it also increases biodiversity, since the lagoons provide habitat for countless species of birds and other animals.
realising that the situation was neither acceptable nor sustainable, the european parliament was a pioneer in demanding an eu-level response to the situation of roma which then became a reality under the hungarian presidency of the eu in the form of an eu framework for national roma inclusion strategies.
the report says that the council of ministers, when negotiating fishing quotas, should also take decisions that will result in sustainable fisheries.
fishermen must take account of the 'maximum sustainable yield', i.e.
the objective is to maintain the stock above the maximum sustainable yield.
− today, natural and man-made disasters are becoming more frequent, complex and intense, and climate change is expected to lead to more extreme disasters in the future.
− i voted in favour of stopping the marketing of part of the carbon allowances, thus raising the low price of the allowances and encouraging the development of lower carbon technologies.
the rules are designed to restore the original purpose of the ets, which is to reduce carbon emissions.
it rewards innovation and efficiency by setting a price for carbon emissions.
the warsaw climate conference in november highlighted that quota-based systems have reached a tipping point.
the report looks specifically at the effectiveness and credibility of economic governance in the context of the euro and various measures taken to establish sustainable remedies for the crisis.
similarly, the report has sought to ensure that the coherence of the eu is sustainable at the operational level.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
it is therefore very important to achieve conscious, sustainable development in the future.
i think that, given the very important role that this region plays in achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy - with seven million jobs and hundreds of millions of euros of investment planned - it is very important that we keep integration, environmental considerations and sustainability in mind in the future.
and that the greenhouse gas problem is something that needs to be addressed locally.