− i think one of the issues that has been raised again and again in parliament and in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) in particular is the issue of gender balance.
however, to return to your question, i would have to say in general that, while individual members of the council have been very supportive of horizon 2020 and of the whole area of research and innovation, it being the area from which growth, jobs, sustainability will come in the future, at the same time the discussions on the multiannual financial framework have been disappointing from that point of view.
within that, energy will consume – if i can use a pun – a large proportion of the funding, as we have set out in the eur 80 billion budget proposal.
i think that if one looks at energy security throughout the world as a whole, it is an issue of major concern to governments everywhere.
therefore, i believe that what is being done on the energy side by commissioner oettinger, with support from us, is highly important.
it is highly visible, and it also is a matter of member states coming together, coming to the table and realising that in supporting different aspects of energy policy they are going to have to look not just within their own economies, but at the european economy as a whole.
that, of course, is the basis on which the funding on energy policy comes under horizon 2020. it is funding for what is in the best interest, and in the critical interest and strategic interest of the european union.
we need to engage with the regulators in the member states and that obviously will be done by us insofar as it relates to horizon 2020 and the research policy and by commissioner oettinger insofar as it relates to pure energy policy.
so i think we have to come at the issue which you raised from several different angles: from our own policy area, from the energy policy area and also from the overall standardisation policy area.
i specifically refer to problems such as climate change, food security and tackling chronic diseases.
we cannot as you rightly said solve problems alone whether they are on the health side, the energy side, the food security side – whatever aspect of research and innovation is involved we have to work together.
recently, i had the great privilege of visiting south africa and launching the second phase of one of our flagship initiatives, the european and developing countries clinical trials partnership (edctp) in the company of ms carvalho from the committee on industry, research and energy (itre).
so i think if you look overall at horizon 2020 and what we are doing in the whole area of research, together with my colleagues, it shows that we are putting in place the kind of climate and the kind of architecture where people feel comfortable to come and invest because they will get a return.
they know what the rules are and they know there will be a stable environment into the future.
also for researchers, they know that we are putting in place the kind of environment in which they feel comfortable working.
if one looks at the kind of statistics that are out there – that by 2030 the world will need to produce 50% more food and energy, together with 30% more available fresh water – those figures are frightening.
as such, cities have a key role to play in achieving the economic, social and environmental aims of the eu 2020 strategy.
therefore, i very much agree that at least 5% of erdf resources should be made available for integrated actions and that sustainable urban development should be delegated to the cities themselves to manage.
the energy which he brought to those jobs he will also now bring to the benefit of europe.
as the rapporteur on data protection for the committee on industry, research and energy, i welcome the fact that this has been made a priority, in addition to, in particular, trying to get jobs for young people.
instead it should be brought under democratic control of the people, and run and managed in the interests of the countries’ social and economic development in an environmentally sustainable way.
firstly, the economic operators, who need a more favourable environment for developing innovative pharmaceutical products, then the patients, our fellow citizens, who are in favour of this proposal because it would give them quicker access to medicines in a context of greater protection of public health, and finally the member states, who will benefit from this directive because they would obtain significant savings on their national budgets through quicker access to generic medicines.
we therefore welcome the report by the committee on the environment and accept most of the amendments.
the 60-day deadline proposed by the committee on the environment for generic medicines would allow for significant savings in health care, while respecting the different procedural rules in force in the different member states.
the commission also supports in principle the amendments of the committee on the environment concerning the appeal procedure and the prior notification procedure.
of course there is a difficult balance between member states’ right to organise their public health systems, the need for a sustainable pharmaceutical sector and the interests of patients.
i do not believe the eu should be facilitating the pharmaceutical industry if this comes at the expense of good public health procedures and sustainable public health budgets.
today, however, i would like to ask the commissioner for his view on a simple and concrete step we could take to forestall the erosion of our industrial base and even to recover some sustainable jobs.
with planning and democratic management of quotas, they could be assured of a fair income and sustainable use of this vital resource.
smes provide much employment and they are a great source of innovation; this is something which we need to support, especially in the current economic climate.
mr president, president barroso recently declared that adjustment programmes carried out by member state governments must be sensible and carry social and political consensus to ensure such efforts are sustainable.
in a similar way, shell produces sustainability statements every year.
good corporate social responsibility policies will be indispensable if there is to be a restoration of trust in business and a sustainable economic recovery, and so the commission’s shift from a purely voluntary approach to csr to developing an eu wide strategy is, i believe, seminal.
this is a policy for jobs, for stable markets, for growth, for rural development and for increased environmental delivery, and we have been asked to do this with potentially less money and to redistribute money to those member states – the new member states – who rightfully are looking for more.
− i welcome the adoption of the rodust report on reform of the common fisheries policy, and particularly the proposals on: ending the practice of discarding fish at sea (starting 2014); moving towards quotas that respect maximum sustainable yields (from 2015) and to multiannual plans and regional structures; taking full account of local communities that are especially dependent on fishing and related activities when allocating quotas.
one that seeks to put an end to overfishing and to allow fish stocks to recover, to secure a sustainable future for fishing communities, especially small-scale fishermen, and achieve more jobs in this sector.
sustainability is a very important issue with regard to fishing and i fully support the establishment of a legally binding obligation with regard to the maximum sustainable yield.
madam president, noise pollution can have a major impact on people’s lives and can lead to many illnesses, as we know.
the noise made by motor vehicles is one of the main contributors to noise pollution; reducing the noise emitted by vehicles is an absolute necessity and we must facilitate such a reduction in any way that we can.
madam president, we have been concerned, obviously, about pollution, and the environment has probably got most of our attention.
but it would be good for us to move on to noise pollution – particularly in open areas, caused by vehicles of all sorts.
− the european commission green paper on noise from 1996 estimated that around 20% of the then eu population suffered from noise levels that scientists and health experts consider to be unacceptable and a 2012 who report stated that traffic noise is the most widespread environmental problem, harming the health of more than one in three eu citizens.
in this regard i voted this support this timely report on the protection of public health and the environment through measures to reduce the sound level of motor vehicles.
research by the european environment agency shows road traffic exposes half of the population in large cities such as dublin to noise levels above 55 decibels, while a 2007 dutch study on traffic noise reduction in europe reported that 1.3 million people in ireland are exposed to traffic noise above these levels.
after air pollution, traffic noise has the biggest impact on health, especially for people living on low incomes or in disadvantaged areas as these are usually closer to roads with heavy traffic.
high levels of road traffic noise can cause disturbed sleep, stress, cardiovascular disease, strokes and psychiatric problems – the 2007 dutch study linked noise pollution to 50 000 fatal heart attacks across europe.
− i voted in favour of this report as a reduction in the sound level of motor vehicles will help to protect public health and will inevitably reduce levels of noise pollution.
what is needed here is a meeting of minds, taking a broad view of what is good for the environment, what is good for fishing and what is good for citizens generally.
− i believe that it is very important to make sure that fish stocks are fished in a manner which is not only sustainable but also in a manner which does not destroy the ecosystems of the fish and that is the reason why i have voted in favour of this report.
these measures relating to the rules on fishing gear, such as the net mesh used by fishermen, are essential in order to ensure sustainability, protect ecosystems and also protect the safety of fishermen throughout europe.
the commissioner pointed out that eur 5 billion was lost in greenhouse gas emissions in the space of a few months.
i also hope that it will respond positively to parliament’s call for proposals to combat misleading and false information regarding commitments to csr and relating to the social and environmental impact of products and services, over and above the requirements of the unfair commercial practices directive.
this report acknowledges the importance of integrated sustainability along with transparency as key drivers in promoting and establishing csr and this is a fundamental point with which i agree.
between june 2008 and december 2009, eur 5 billion was lost as a result of fraud in greenhouse gas emission allowances.
i therefore welcome the emphasis in this report on placing the single market in the context of wider eu policy areas such as consumer and worker protection, social rights, the environment and sustainable development; on the need for the single market strategy to strengthen social welfare, convergence and workers’ rights, to prevent social dumping and ensure fair working conditions for all; and on ensuring the principle of equal treatment for all workers.
a single market which is economically, environmental and socially balanced holds out great potential for economic recovery, employment and social cohesion.
these loans are being used at present to develop the esb network, to support bord gais’s development of renewable energy, to provide new educational and student facilities at ucd, to build and refurbish primary and secondary schools, to replace water mains and upgrade drinking-water and wastewater treatment facilities, and for onward investment to smes, amongst others.
if we want a competitive europe, we do of course need energy that is affordable and a range of energy sources, and to have an open mind on what is available.
i think for the competitiveness of europe, a cheap energy supply and also a consistent energy supply is going to be vital.
we have seen the way things have happened in the united states where instead of being importers they are now exporters of energy, and it is way cheaper than before.
renewables are not always reliable, the wind does not always blow, therefore if we are going to have more renewables having the infrastructure to avail of these and to move energy around is going to be of major importance.
i think we can be pleased in europe that we are on target and have been on target to meet our commitments under the kyoto protocol and certainly the 2020 proposal of 20 % reductions in emissions is also going to be reached and hopefully exceeded.
we will not achieve sustainable growth in jobs on the back of uncontrollable public deficits.
this new regulation will foster the development of social investment, diversify funding for the social economy and help to support sustainable inclusive growth and jobs.
we are deepening the environmental delivery and linking 30% of direct payments to environmental measures, which is a major reorientation.
we have decided on a more realistic introduction of ecological focus areas to reflect farming realities.
we have worked for results, not news headlines, and i believe that a phasing-in of this proposal, combined with the european innovation partnerships for agriculture under pillar two, will result in the proper integration of environmental practices into normal farming activity, and that is what we should be trying to achieve in this house, rather than a piecemeal forced adoption by farmers of measures that they have not bought into.
if organic farmers are green by definition, then agri-environment farmers should also be given the same consideration – and, commissioner, you have always given me an indication that this is your view – please clarify.
it does nothing for sustainable agriculture or the competitiveness of farmers across europe; let us tread carefully.
mr president, flexibility for member states is key to a successful policy, one which will work for active productive farmers and which will protect public goods in the face of pressures on resources and the environment.
mr president, the reform of the cap takes place in the context of two crises – an environmental crisis and an economic crisis for small farmers and rural communities.
industrialised capitalist farming is threatening our environment.
ninety-two percent of rivers, lakes and aquifers in the eu are affected by pollution or habitat change.
i therefore support the proposal from our group of eur 100 000 for a cap in cap payments that would free up eur 4.8 billion that could be used as part of a major plan of public investment to assist small farmers in developing economically- and environmentally-sustainable farming.
this is also why the commission's proposals for the regulation of the european social fund identify 'access to affordable, sustainable and high quality services, including health care and social services of general interest' as one of the six investment priorities.
– mr president, i think what we need are concrete proposals and serious commitments from the commission and member states on environmental, social, labour and trade union rights all the way through the cotton chain: from cotton production and harvesting to textile and clothing manufacturing.
− we voted to support this report, which reflects the needs of rural communities and undertakes to ensure their continued sustainability and vitality.
this crucial issue should not be overshadowed in the overall reform as it is key to the viability and sustainability of rural ireland.
i feel that binding targets for 2030 on greenhouse gas emissions should not be ruled out as a policy option, so i abstained on voting on that issue.
i believe that, overall, the report is a balanced one and has a comprehensive menu that does not rule out technological innovation in the area of unconventional energy supplies and in carbon capture and storage.
overall, i would have been pleased to vote in favour of this important resolution in order to strengthen safeguards in the field of nuclear energy in europe.
i salute the courage of chinese bloggers defending the right to a free media and the many ordinary chinese people who protest against the massive environmental damage done to their rivers, villages and cities.
i am thinking in particular of the measures against spain, which prove that the eu is fishing in a sustainable manner.
it is worth noting that if both iceland and the faroe islands were acting responsibly and fishing in a sustainable manner, instead of having a 15% reduction on the scientific advice, we would have a 25% reduction in the tac.
i would conclude by saying that the commissioner has been at the forefront of advocating sustainable stocks and fishing at maximum sustainable levels, and we all support that.
security of supplies is important in relation to energy, and for that you need diversity of supply.
mr president, it is as clear as day for all those not blinded by neo-liberal ideology that the emissions trading scheme is an absolute failure in terms of tackling greenhouse gas emissions.
even the most conservative estimates suggest that between one third and two thirds of all carbon credits bought under the scheme do not represent real carbon reductions.
the energy sector has, in this way, made an extra profit in the last phase of between eur 23 and eur 71 billion.
as a result, the un was even forced to disqualify its main cdm verification agency in 2009. the free market approach to tackling climate change has failed.
i fully agree with the many environmental activists calling for the ets scheme to be scrapped immediately.
we need planning for the environment, not production for profit of the rich.
polluting industries should be nationalised under democratic public control and run as part of a sustainable and democratically-planned economy.
the eu’s trade policy defends eu-based multinationals using their dominant position to maximise profit at the cost of workers’ rights, the environment and the development of poorer countries.
it costs us eur 180 million a year to come to strasbourg every year, and 19 000 tonnes of co2 emissions.
the commission has indicated that aid would continue in specific circumstances, including for innovation, environment or energy investments.
the implications in terms of a rise in sea levels, but also the dramatic feedback effects in terms of the increase in the speed of global warming, should be truly shocking.
with the environment facing greater crisis, world leaders respond with a new, unseemly race for the arctic.
environmental organisations are calling for a global day of action next saturday to send a clear message: hands off the arctic.
a sustainable solution means breaking with the logic of capitalist greed and promoting democratic planning towards the transition to a fossil-fuel-free economy.
the eu must promote sustainable use of resources in a way that does not compromise the arctic environment and will benefit local communities.
the fact that initiatives have been received on the right to water, waste management, media pluralism and speed limits, among others, are testimony to the potential of this tool as a real driver of european policy and engagement with citizens.
− i have voted in favour of this report because the financial and economic crisis is in fact a global crisis and has become intertwined with numerous other crises such as food, environmental and social crises.
we have to become more competitive and we need to reduce energy costs in particular.
if we do that, then we can have energy security in europe.
the first is on energy, and there have been many comments made about this energy debate.
it is crucial if europe is to talk about reindustrialisation that we get our energy mix right and that we get our energy costs down.
others have mentioned the need to look at an energy and climate policy that address both those issues.
the topics are energy and tax; the headline figure is eur 1 trillion.
eur 1 trillion is needed for energy as soon as possible, and eur 1 trillion has not been collected in tax.
if we get coordination across the european union, we can deal with this, and we can get that eur 1 trillion that we need so badly for energy overnight.
with this directive, we are putting in place the first ever eu-wide rules aimed at ensuring high environmental protection and safety standards for offshore oil and gas operations.
earlier this year, plans to drill for oil in dublin bay were suspended following a legal challenge claiming that the 1997 environmental impact assessment directive had been incorrectly transposed into irish law, by the (previous) irish government.
the new directive introduces new environmental protection and safety obligations for oil and gas companies planning to drill off the irish coast.
vótáil mé ar son na moltaí go léir, in éineacht le mo ghrúpa, ach le heiseacht amháin: leasú 1(i), binding emissions targets.
therefore, it would not make economic sense if the eu were to pursue an energy policy with shale gas as one of its main planks.
my second point is that, while renewables are crucial to the future of our energy mix, i have a concern about onshore wind energy.
− i welcome the adoption of the reul resolution on renewable energy, particularly the first part of amendment 1 (initiated by the s&d shadow rapporteur, and others) urging the commission to propose a mandatory eu-wide renewable energy target for 2030, which was adopted by the tightest of margins.
a renewables share of 45 % is technically and economically feasible and would put europe on course to ensure we achieve our long-term commitments to tackle climate change.
i would urge the commission to support a binding 40 %-45 % target for 2030 as part of a new 2030 climate and energy package, due in the last quarter of this year, and to include a legislative proposal to this effect in this package.
instead, what we are going to see with this process of secret negotiations without real public scrutiny – without real political scrutiny – is an attempt to converge labour, environmental and social standards downwards, for example with an attempt by us agri-business to get access to the eu market for gmos.
we must also safeguard consumer rights and uphold standards across all areas related to the environment, food, health, data protection and cultural diversity.
they are collectively responsible for war, austerity, environmental destruction and poverty, which affect billions of people across the world.
as the report highlights, there are several obstacles still facing women and women should be represented more in senior positions and on boards and there should be a reduction of ‘brain-waste’ amongst women due to under-use of qualifications possessed by women moving abroad.
finally, there are huge environmental advantages to this.
if we have a barrier-free europe, we will have, for example, free access and movement, less pollution, greater trade and greater access to the market.
over 500 amendments were initially tabled, and we managed to reach consensus on the vast majority of these, on issues such as the broader scope, developing the partnership principle, the definitions, mutual learning, co-financing, reducing the administrative burden on ngos and developing synergies with other eu policies in the area of food waste and healthy diet.
the online environment has actually made it easier for criminals to operate in gambling.
i welcome in particular the efforts made to make the banks more sustainable and more vibrant, and indeed more accountable, which is absolutely vital because without working banks you cannot have a working economy.
i would also agree completely regarding the energy market in europe; we have failed to address that properly.
we need to focus on it, because we will never become properly competitive if we do not have a good, competitive energy market.
it is also in our environmental interests, as illegal fishing is one of the most dangerous threats to marine biodiversity.
the experience of european countries with well-developed social investment strategies shows that they can help reconcile social and economic goals and lead to more sustainable public finances and growth, more and better jobs, better educational outcomes and lower levels of poverty and social exclusion.
it is the government that is responsible for the neo-liberal and anti-environmental restructuring of istanbul, for the repression of the kurdish people and for the imposition of conservative policies against kissing in public and selling alcohol, purely in order to divide and rule.
there is no doubt that sustainable development is inextricably linked with this.
i recall what the commissioner said about a single voice for the eu and an integrated framework that is underpinned by human rights addressing issues of hunger, nutrition and climate change.
to the taoiseach enda kenny, for his energy and commitment, i say a particular word of appreciation; to tánaiste eamon gilmore for his conduct at the mff in particular, i think we should show appreciation; and to the minister for european affairs, lucinda creighton, for keeping us well briefed and for her energy and her work here with us, i would say thank you very much indeed.
substandard ships are unacceptable both in view of the workers’ rights and also for the sake of ship safety, security and environmental protection.
− i voted in favour of the proposal for this directive, as chemical pollution is one of the causes of ever increasing pressure on the aquatic environment and on the availability and quality of safe and clean water for our society.
appropriate measures are a central aspect of sustainable water management.
the proposal is that the three substances be kept on the list of priority substances, but that their environmental quality standards (eqs) be deleted.
furthermore, i support the extension of the existing coordination mechanism for communicable diseases to include all health threats of biological, chemical, environmental and unknown origin.
− the eu’s emissions trading system (eu ets) is one of the cornerstones of our climate policy.
its creation demonstrated that the eu could be at the forefront of tackling climate change and reducing industrial greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective way.
that is why i support the rapporteur’s assertion of bringing certainty to the markets and helping the eu avoid missing its carbon reduction targets.
− i voted ‘yes’ to this report because i believe that the european union emissions trading system is a key tool for reducing the industrial emissions of the eu in a cost-effective way.
the legislative report was adopted unanimously in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) and that is no mean feat in itself.
for example, in cap reform, we have just agreed that farmers will place 5% of their land into an ecological focus area and, indeed, rising to 7%.
it is crucial that we reduce the impact of transport on climate change, while at the same time contributing to improving the health of eu citizens and their quality of life.
we must not look negatively on the need to reduce the impact of transport on our environment, but rather see it as an opportunity, because jobs can be created in the r&d sector while at the same time we are meeting our environmental targets.
– i supported this report by mep buzek because, on the whole, i agree with the european commission’s principle that ‘the union needs an internal energy market that is competitive, integrated and fluid, providing a solid backbone for electricity and gas flowing where it is needed’.
it is particularly vital that our strategic choices with regard to europe’s energy mix keep the consumer at their core.
the combination of the european economic crisis and the increasing price of energy has hit many eu citizens hard, and any decisions we make must reflect this fact.
this is particularly pertinent for ireland, an island nation which imports the vast majority of its energy needs.
to that end, i applaud this report’s call for ‘greater participation on the part of consumers’ being facilitated by local cooperatives for renewable energy, which ‘will help consumers better understand and manage their energy consumption, and thereby become more flexible and responsive (from both a demand and a supply perspective), so that they can ‘strengthen access to renewables and generate the necessary financial investments’.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because we must continue to make sure that energy efficiency is at the very centre of many of our eu policies.
that said, we are facing a severe challenge to meeting the objective of reducing the overall energy consumption by 20% by 2020, where policies fostering energy efficiency could and should play a stronger role.
being energy-efficient is very important in terms of getting it right from the very start of new projects.
energy efficiency improvements are decisive for european competitiveness and represent a win-win option in the fight against climate change.
investing in energy efficiency measures can bring about immediate and tangible benefits for both households and business in industry, such as reduction of costs, creation of employment opportunities and growth, as well as an encouragement in the transition towards a low-carbon economy.
− i voted ‘yesʼ because energy efficiency improvements are decisive for european competitiveness and represent a win-win option in the fight against climate change.
such a strategy would give a very welcome boost to the development of sustainable economic activities in the region, which will have a beneficial effect on coastal communities and adjacent inland areas.
properly-managed fisheries provide employment in some of the most rural and remote parts of the european union and, when sensibly managed, this is a renewable resource that is very valuable in the fight against unemployment in many isolated parts of the eu.
the 2007 eu regulation requires each member state to implement individual management plans to achieve the objective of restoring the stock to sustainable levels – and i want to expand on ‘sustainable’ later.
a positive example of how to manage the stock in a sustainable way is the lough neagh fishermen’s cooperative society in northern ireland.
in conclusion i want to refer to the importance of sustainability, whether we speak about eels or about demersal or pelagic.
breaking the helsinki principles, as my colleague mr brok said, using energy prices as a tool.
but i want to welcome meps’ decisions to introduce indirect land use change as a mandatory factor to distinguish between good and bad biofuels when calculating greenhouse gas emission savings attributable to biofuels.
i also welcome that meps voted to no longer incentivise first-generation biofuels but to encourage producers to shift to second-generation biofuels, using materials such as algae, straw and waste that do not create additional demands for land.
i was disappointed that centre-right meps did not support the s&d proposal, as agreed by the ep’s committee on the environment, and limit to 5.5% the amount of food- and energy-based biofuels that can be counted towards achieving the 10% share, but instead voted for a 6% cap.
i think it is time that the eu moved away from a policy that leads to famine, poverty, land grabs and climate change and towards one that promotes sustainable production of good biofuels, climate action, jobs and prosperity.
i also supported the amendment to ensure that the share of energy from renewable sources in petrol by 2020 is 7.5% of the final consumption of energy and petrol.
we need to ensure that a youth guarantee is just that, and that it provides young people with a real opportunity and it provides progression into real and sustainable jobs.
one of the points made in the debate was that 30% of energy in the united kingdom could be obtained through micro-generation.
during the debate, we have seen how small scale technologies covered by this resolution have been a ‘blind spotʼ in european energy policy so far, despite the potential of the sector to cover a much more significant proportion of the regionʼs energy needs.
this resolution calls on member states to take a more proactive approach in implementing the energy efficiency directive 2012/27/eu and, in particular, in removing barriers to microgeneration deployment.
i believe this industry has great potential, with the correct supports in place, to yield dividends in terms of job creation and environmental protection.
it envisages a series of policy initiatives and the promotion of a modern regulatory environment, as well as better coordination of policies in areas such as culture, education, industry, economic affairs, tourism, urban and regional development, and territorial planning.
with the way the economy is, we are increasingly hearing from citizens that our policies are costing jobs and raising energy prices.
on renewables, in ireland at the moment there is a very big debate about wind energy, which we support here, but people do not like where it is going to be located, or indeed the fact that it will be exported to the united kingdom.
it concerns the green paper on the framework for climate and energy policy and the place of agriculture and the demands for mitigation in agriculture.
i think we have to have a look at sustainable agriculture in europe and in the global context and not do damage.
whilst plain packaging and point-of-sale display bans failed to secure a majority in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, nothing in this legislation prevents eu member states from taking these and further measures.
the fact that it was earlier rejected by the committee on fisheries only reflects the influence of the interests of european big fishing here, and the placing of those interests above the environment and above the interest of small fishermen from mauritania and the 36% of the mauritanian workforce employed in the fisheries sector.
this agreement is insufficient but it is a step in the right direction of sustainable fishing.
however, these key policy objectives cannot fully succeed unless we implement a strong european research area, one where researchers can freely move and work in each european member state and easily carry their pension and social security rights across borders; one where there are open and transparent rules for recruitment within the research education environment.
mr president, i voted to include mandatory environmental impact assessments for both the exploration and production phases of all non-conventional fossil fuel projects.
in the south, the minister for the environment, phil hogan, has dismissed gasland as a horror film, while in the north, enterprise minister arlene foster has dismissed concerns about the safety of fracking as mere scaremongering.
we cannot trust these politicians to look after our environment.
instead we need massive public investment in research into green energy.
for example, we have greater public participation and clear rules on conflict of interest to guarantee the credibility of the entire environmental impact assessment.
however, while it was a positive step to include hydraulic fracking in annex 1 and therefore make it subject to an eia, i was very disappointed that we did not include the exploration evaluation as well as the extraction phase because, as my colleague paul murphy has said, the exploration phase includes drill pads, etc., and certainly can cause damage to the environment.
so i was disappointed that we did not include adverse impacts on property values resulting from deterioration of the environment in our report today, but i am pleased that we have decided to send it to the council for negotiation.
− the environmental impact assessment (eia) directive is one of the most important environmental directives adopted by the eu in the past 30 years.
it is meant to ensure informed decision making by requiring that the environmental implications of public and private projects are fully considered before project approval is given.
of the environmental cases brought before the european court of justice, 12% concern eias, as do 8% of the environment-related petitions received by parliament’s committee on petitions.
we need to broaden its scope, assess risks to human health more effectively, close loopholes that allow developers to avoid assessments, introduce post-eia monitoring, establish ‘one-stop shops’ to ensure compliance with other environmental directives, and require full assessment of relevant alternative projects as well as enhanced public participation and consultation.
we cannot cut corners when it comes to protecting our environment and our health.
i voted in favour of amendments 79 and 31, which called for environmental impact assessments to be mandatory for both the exploration phase and the production phase of all unconventional fossil-fuel projects – as is already the case in ireland.
the systematic use of deep-drilling and hydraulic-fracturing techniques throughout the entire process means that environmental damage can occur even during the exploration phase.
− i support mandatory environmental impact assessments (eias) for shale-gas exploration, evaluation and extraction projects and i voted in favour of this in amendment 79 to the zanoni report.
to do this, it revises and greatly improves safety and environmental requirements, e.g.
on noise, exhaust emissions and emergency features.
these improvements represent important steps towards a better regulated, safer recreational environment for european citizens.
in such a climate the desire to make a quick profit is put ahead of safety.
under the irish presidency, minister phil hogan in particular was instrumental in ensuring that we would have an agreement which provides certainty – not only for industry but also for the environment and public health – that these dangerous metals will be eradicated from particular batteries.
i mentioned to them that, when it comes to waste disposal, the initiative – certainly in ireland – would not have happened without the european union pushing various directives, including this one.
it happened slowly but when europe makes decisions you do see the effect and this always benefits public health and environmental protection in the long term.
mr president, i would particularly like to compliment the rapporteur, not only on his good work in this important area – though it may not be the sexiest in the world, it is of great importance to citizens – but also for the wonderful, practical explanation he gave of the work being carried out, especially as regards emphasising the need for a less costly transition and protection of the environment and human health, and also for pointing out that five tonnes of mercury seep into the environment every year.
environmental issues, the rights of persons with disabilities, children’s rights, the right of free movement and the right of access to documents and information were the main subjects of petitions submitted.
− the nature of the cases brought before parliament’s committee on petitions denotes ongoing concern about the application of eu law in the fields of fundamental rights, the environment and the internal market.
i think there has been a real failure by us in this chamber and outside to communicate how real climate change is and how we need to tackle it.
i heard one colleague mention a slogan: ‘ditching carbon’.
i think if we went out to our elections next year with a poster saying ‘ditching carbon’, i do not think it would work.
people want – and know the importance of – saving energy.
so we are at risk in some of the renewable sectors of citizens not quite being on the same plane as perhaps the policy drivers are, and i think these are real issues which need to be addressed.
i would like to say to the commissioner that i mentioned on one occasion the issue of agriculture and emissions and, commissioner, i think we need to talk about this.
how do we produce food in a way that is sustainable from a perspective of co2 and greenhouse gas emissions?
agriculture and food are fundamental to our economies, so we may not be able to drive down emissions as much as we might wish in this regard without some good science and innovation.
i welcome the rejection by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of the ‘preliminary marketing authorisationʼ as that would hinder the speed of medical progression; it would also cost the eu its innovative edge on the world market.
this poses a serious danger to human health and to the environment.
regulations are systematically circumvented; indeed in 2009 more than 90 % of eu flagged ships were dismantled mostly in india, pakistan and bangladesh, usually using the beaching method which results in environmental damage.
this has implications not only for the environment itself but for health also.
− local authorities and civil society have important roles to play in ensuring eu funds promote sustainable development in third countries, particularly at the policy formulation, programming and implementing stages, and in putting monitoring mechanisms in place to achieve this.
the eu should also support more efficient tax-collection systems to ensure sustainable financing for development.
− i supported the crețu report because it highlighted the importance of providing an enabling environment for civil society organisations and the role that they play in supporting democracy.
mr president, i think this is probably a dangerous environment in which to mention ecclesiastes chapter 3, verse 1, but it does say ‘to everything there is a season’.
for that reason we should be tapping into the goodwill that is there, particularly now amongst the younger generation, regarding what needs to be done for the environment.
young people have a very different attitude to older generations and a far greater awareness, and that is why it is right that we should have, first of all, a programme for 2020, followed by binding targets for 2030 and a vision for 2050. this will create a stable environment for investment and help us to have jobs and growth and, particularly, to nurture the green economy.
the context of this is the digital mapping of the seabed of european waters, the results of which will be produced by 2020. we are expecting a policy paper from the commission in early 2014 on the blue economy, and once we have the knowledge we can then use the seabed maps to tap the potential of the oceans in a sustainable way.
the report also looks at all of this potential with a view to promoting sustainable fisheries and, in the context of our vote on the common fisheries policy, it is a visionary report.
− earlier this year, the ep and the council reached agreement on an ambitious reform of the common fisheries policy, with the aim of ensuring a sustainable future or fishing communities, enabling fish stocks to recover, the progressive elimination of discards, and minimising the impact of fisheries on the marine environment.
we want sustainable fisheries and we want to support fishermen and women in the future.
in this report we said yes to support for produce associations, yes to training of young fisherpersons, yes to maximum sustainable yield, yes to money for data collection and yes to gear change but no to subsidies for fleet renewal.
mr president, climate change is the most acute threat to the whole of humanity.
it is a threat to biodiversity, and it will force more and more people to flee their homes because of rising sea levels.
as is the rhetoric of world leaders, when appropriate, and when attending climate change conferences.
if it is serious about climate change, the cop 19 conference should speed up its commitments on meaningful and binding targets for co2 reduction; live up to its commitments on financing without taking money from that allocated to official development aid; and publicly invest in research in clean and sustainable energy.
we need to build a sustainable and democratic socialist society based on the planning of our resources.
− i supported many of the proposal in this resolution but in particular i supported amendment 12, which noted that the eu could fulfil its vital role in reducing emissions through policies to stop the development of highly greenhouse-gas-intensive unconventional fossil fuels e.g.
this resolution, quite rightly, calls for a more comprehensible and coherent post-2020 agreement (a new ‘climate pact’), with each country contributing (common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities).
the inclusion of all countries in the planning phase is essential if we really want to have a climate impact!
the resolution also calls for a climate strategy to create new jobs.
in a time of economic crisis, when people are struggling to put food on the table, it is very difficult to sell long-term climate goals.
a climate-friendly job creation strategy is an excellent idea, which will allow the eu citizens to get involved in combating climate change.
i also welcome the commitment to reduce our dependency upon energy imports, so that the eu can be energy independent!
one is that we have to concentrate on third countries and ensure that any food – fish, for example – coming into europe complies with the same environmental standards that we expect here in europe.
secondly, we must ensure that the policies we undertake do not have a negative effect on the environment in third countries – particularly in relation to deforestation – as has been alleged by some ngos.
− i welcome the agreement reached with the council, under the irish presidency, in june for the european environmental action programme (2014-20).
this, the seventh, european action programme, sets out the major priorities and guidelines for eu environmental policy, and hence member states’ environmental policies, over the next seven years.
the action programme is aimed at steering europe’s transition towards a resource-efficient, low-carbon and environmentally-friendly economy that protects and strengthens the environment as well as the health and well-being of citizens.
i particularly welcome the emphasis placed by the ep in the new programme on improving the implementation of eu environmental laws, as well as the emphasis on waste management, the combined effects of chemicals, the need for a legally-binding framework for energy and climate policy by 2020, the need for progress on soil protection and the elimination of environmentally-damaging subsidies in the new programme.
the government has extended the network to include limerick, and now, even at this late stage and however embarrassing it may be for the government, i call for the ten-t core network to be extended to the western region in order to develop rail, road, energy and communications links.
with the creative europe programme’s budget for the next seven years to increase by 9%, investment in and promotion of the cultural and creative sectors on the single market will be important for jobs and sustainable growth as well as promoting cultural diversity.
if we can connect europe, especially in relation to transport, energy and telecommunications, that will help to alleviate that problem somewhat.
energy is absolutely vital and will become more vital into the future, and europe certainly has to wean itself off dependency on importing fuels, especially fossil fuels, from third countries.
mr turmes referred last night to renewable resources, especially the potential of offshore wind off the west coast of ireland and scotland, where you have the most reliable wind in europe.
the government extended the network to include limerick and even at this late stage, however embarrassing it may be for the government, i call for the ten-t core network to be extended to the western region in order to develop rail, road, energy and communications links.
it clearly outlines the specific objectives of r&d in the important field of nuclear energy, and ensures that the requisite financial instruments and budget are in place.
− as a result of the votes today billions of euros will be pumped into the nuclear energy industry and will serve as a boost to this inherently dangerous technology.
nuclear power and energy production must be placed under democratic public ownership and control where ordinary people have full control over safety and can plan the safest and most efficient methods of moving away from nuclear power.
instead of pumping billions into nuclear we need a massive plan of investment in renewable energy production so we can move away from fossil fuels and nuclear energy in favour of genuinely renewable and sustainable energy production.
there is also the commitment to lower-carbon technologies, which fits in with our targets to reduce co2 emissions again.
regional disadvantages remain in terms of transport, energy infrastructure, sustainable urban development and improved it and communications networks.
having said that, it is noticeable that the majority is declining – and understandably so – with the cost at around 180 million per year, co2 emissions, the difficulty and time it takes to get here and, of late, the trend of strikes or threats of strikes when parliamentarians are here.
it is very welcome, but our government – and i say this to my own government – needs to make a clear commitment to fully fund and fully match that funding so that we have good agri-environmental schemes for farmers, we have good investment in on-farm efficiencies and we fund rural development leader programmes, thus making the most of the money that is available.
the remainder will support projects in ireland under the erdf such as broadband provision, low-carbon energy projects and support for smes.
in ireland, as well as elsewhere, there are regional disadvantages and specific needs for transport and energy infrastructure, urban development and improved it and communications networks.
the leader programme has been instrumental to date in encouraging the diversification of economic activity in rural areas, including supports for non-agricultural activities and for supporting the development of vibrant and sustainable rural communities.
i strongly welcome the inclusion of business start-up grants for young farmers and the allocation of funds for farm restructuring and modernisation which will boost local economies, creating jobs and strengthening rural communities in a sustainable manner.
under this agreement, the new european innovation partnership for agricultural productivity and sustainability will provide a platform for greater cooperation between agriculture and research.
this will be crucial for the maintenance of the family farm and also for protection of the environment.
while this reform is not perfect, it aims to strike a balance between food security and environmental protection while assisting farmers in receiving a fair return for fair work.
at present, only 6% of european farmers are younger than 35. european agriculture is facing the real problem of not having enough farmers on the land to meet the food security and environmental challenges the cap is tasked with.
there are also significant environmental consequences to the current arrangement, with the best estimation being that it produces 19 000 tonnes of co2 a year.
these monies have gone towards research, science and innovative activities in a number of different policy areas, including the fields of information and communication technologies and marine, agriculture, health, energy, food and environmental services.
in many ways it is a good name, because we could be talking about life or death in terms of the way we treat our environment, in particular, and especially how we adapt to the changes in the climate.
there are aspects which people would be concerned about, and one is the very small budget for it: 0.3% of the budget is a little low for something which can have such a great impact on the environment and indeed on the quality of people’s lives.
we have policies on the environment and on agriculture that need to be better coordinated because we need farmers to live and farm in rural areas and to manage the landscape.
if you listened carefully to my speech, i do not think you would find that there is much in it that divides the agriculture view and the environment view but i do think there is not enough understanding of the situation of incomes on farms and the need to work with farmers rather than to force them in a particular direction.
in my view, in relation to agriculture, we are going to see an increase in the error rates with the new cap because we have added some environmental measures, which will cause some difficulty in terms of controls.
under fp7 (the current research instrument), ireland has benefited considerably, drawing down eur 572 million in funding in the period 2007 to 2013. these monies have supported research, scientific and innovative activities in a range of areas including information, communications and technologies, agriculture and environmental services.
some of the recommendations made by parliament will strengthen it in particular the emphasis on the environment and action to mitigate climate change, concentrating on areas such as water, air and soil in particular.
− life is one of the smaller eu programmes, accounting for less than 0.3% of the total eu budget, but it is one of the most successful ones and will continue to be the only eu programme exclusively dedicated to supporting environmental and climate change projects.
since the first life programme began in 1992, a total of 54 projects have been financed in ireland, 38 focusing on environmental innovation and 16 on nature conservation, with a total investment of eur 110 million, of which nearly half came from the eu.
i do welcome the emphasis on climate action and resource efficiency in the new programme.
the introduction of new ‘integrated projects’ using funding from more than one eu programme or other funding (either national, regional or private sector) to tackle water, waste, air quality and nature protection will also require a change in approach from national authorities and ngos who have taken part in life projects in the past and are considering doing so again.
and particularly where cars are concerned: energy-efficient and safe cars will give us an advantage if we concentrate on that as opposed to the rest of the world.
− international labour organization (ilo) convention no 170 is an important legal instrument to prevent and to reduce chemically-induced illnesses in the workplace and to better protect the general public and the environment.
the local population are up in arms against the irreparable environmental and health damage this threatens: water supplies could be poisoned with mercury, lead and arsenic, and forest land would need to be cleared.
− i voted for this resolution as it represents a move towards adequately addressing supply and demand imbalances in the eu carbon market, via a temporary removal of emission certificates from the market.
− i voted in favour of this resolution because it provides for the development of a competitive and sustainable automotive industry in europe.
if we want to achieve the employment potential of the domestic work sector then we have to transform precarious domestic jobs into decent sustainable jobs.
i would also say that, in the energy sector, where we want a market in energy, there are concerns in member states about proposals for export of energy – in my country specifically wind energy.
there is also energy that we can get under the ground in the gulf of mexico and there is also gas that we can get under the ground in the gulf of mexico and there are also gas that we can use to get into the gulf of mexico and there are gas that we can get into the gulf of mexico and there are gas that we can get into the gulf of mexico and there are gas that we can get into the gulf of mexico and there are gas that we can get into the gulf of mexico and there are gas that we can get into the gulf of mexico and there are gas that we can get into the gulf of mexico and there are gas that we can get into the gulf of mexico and there are gas that we can get into the gulf of mexico and there are gas that we can get into the gulf of mexico and there are gas that we can get into the gulf of mexico and there are gas that we can get into.
− i am pleased to support the meissner report as i fully approve of measures to help realise the potential of our marine economy, so long as it is done in a sustainable manner.
i believe that such measures must strike a balance between protecting our marine environment, its species and habitats and maximising the use of our marine resources as a source of economic growth.
from an irish perspective, i believe that "harnessing our ocean wealth, an integrated marine plan for ireland" approved by the irish government in july 2012 to be a very good basis for achieving long term and sustainable growth.