the agenda includes, for joint debate, the report by andrea cozzolino, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the contribution of urban regeneration to economic growth in eu cohesion policy (2011/2311 ((ini)) (a7-0406/2012); the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on optimising the role of spatial regeneration in cohesion policy (2011/2312 ((ini)) (a7-0421/2012); the report by lena kolarska-bobińska, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the role of eu cohesion policy in the implementation of the new european energy policy (2012/2099 ((ini)) (a7-0437/2012); and the report by rosa ferragàs, on behalf of the committee on regional development, the european union solidarity fund and its implementation (2012/7539 ((ini)) (a7-0208/2012).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of buildings, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
there is a very big issue that crosses the issue of cities and the urban network and it is the issue of the mobility of people and goods, and this can open up a very big debate, also from the point of view of environmental sustainability.
the cozzolino report puts cities at the heart of the rationale of cohesion policy, but not in isolation but in a harmonious context, which is represented by the suburban areas and the surrounding countryside; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire in a building is a good example of the need to ensure that the protection of the environment is not jeopardised by the use of hazardous substances.
in line with the rapporteur, we felt that we should give special attention to the urban dimension and in the report we ask the commission to link the objectives of the urban agenda to the objectives of europe 2020 and to make cities inclusive, smart and sustainable; the commission's proposal for a 5% ceiling for investment in urban policy should be the minimum rather than the maximum and, lastly, planning should involve local authorities in the development of a model of local participation, including decision-making and not just the management of resources.
i am pleased that the subject of energy efficiency, energy generation in the field of renewable energy is given such a space.
we are conscious that the funding – the money that comes from the european taxpayers – needs to be used in research and innovations that add to the well-being of the european union, that provide the kind of growth and innovations and sustainability that is required within the european union.
i am talking about water services, energy, etc.
it is important to join research programmes and the gms programme must be given substance, because it is a crucial resource for monitoring the state of climate change and air pollution.
because we can create a very conducive atmosphere and climate for women to participate; we recognise maternity rights – we give women the same rights when they come back after a career break – so it is a very conducive environment for women.
mr president, i too voted in favour of this dossier, which concretely develops initiatives aimed at economic cohesion and sustainable and intelligent growth.
the structural funds must be used correctly in this respect, with measurable and defined objectives which best meet the needs of the population: the commission has also proposed measures to protect natural resources, promote energy efficiency and, finally, initiatives such as the covenant of mayors, which best meet the needs of the local community.
the local development model today must be innovative and adapted to meet new challenges, including the economic crisis, climate change and ageing populations.
in this respect, the new eu cohesion policy will have to ensure the social sustainability of urban transformation in order to contain the risk of displacement of the weaker sections of the population from areas affected by redevelopment processes.
i think it is very important that 5% of the european regional development fund should be allocated to integrated actions for sustainable urban development.
to achieve these objectives, we are asking in the cozzolino report - and yesterday commissioner hahn seems to have agreed with our request - that the urban agenda should focus on the objectives of sustainability, innovation and inclusiveness, that multi-fund actions should be promoted so that the 5% erdf is only the starting point, that the local development model should be of the participatory type and that local administrators should therefore participate not only in the management phase but also in the decision-making phase.
obviously, a new approach to problems such as efficient energy management, waste management, immigration, the ageing of the population, to name just a few, cannot ignore the need for the european institutions to attach greater importance to local elected representatives, namely mayors.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one.
within the eu's cohesion policy, one of the contributions to economic growth is the so-called urban redevelopment which, based on the analysis of migration flows from peripheral areas, will have to set an agenda capable of ensuring sustainability and development in situations of constant population growth.
the report proposes methods for revitalising town planning and spatial planning, and opens a debate on planning practices and instruments of intervention which can enrich environmental, territorial, commercial and road policies.
problems such as unemployment, discrimination and poverty are crucial to understanding that the european model of sustainable urban development is in danger.
the commission has therefore decided to continue along the path traced so far, keeping in mind the difficulties encountered so far, in order to analyse the causes and find the appropriate solutions for a sustainable growth, both from an economic and social point of view, of local realities.
in the current economic climate, it is clear that cohesion policy funding is becoming increasingly important for the eu's regions.
the horn of africa has a long history of conflicts and it is important to bear in mind that sustainable development cannot be achieved in an environment characterised by armed conflicts and unstable government institutions.
a comprehensive approach to achieving sustainable development in the region is essential, as the horn of africa is a region where criminal activity, including terrorism and piracy, is very intense due to extreme poverty and bad governance.
the region has a long history of conflict, poverty and underdevelopment; sustainable development cannot be achieved in a climate of tension, poverty, armed conflict, and unstable government institutions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the preservation of the planet's genetic diversity, a crucial element of sustainable agriculture and food security, is one of the millennium development goals that has been mentioned many times.
so fighting bio-piracy is a major challenge that we have to face, because these practices are totally contrary to the commitments we have made to eradicate poverty and to protect biodiversity.
however, precisely because of the phenomenon of 'biopiracy', the beneficiaries of biodiversity are the already industrialised countries.
genetic resources are essential, above all, for the sustainability of agriculture and food security.
moreover, genetic diversity is one of the main components for the survival of species and the preservation of the ecosystem.
it should also be stressed that the genetic resources of countries rich in biodiversity make a significant contribution to pharmaceutical research and development.
i am also in favour of fighting against bio-piracy, which is a major challenge facing the eu, as these practices are contrary to the commitments made to eradicate poverty and protect biodiversity, as well as to the principle of policy coherence for development enshrined in article 208 of the lisbon treaty.
i strongly believe that european action is necessary and that it will once again contribute to positive developments in the overall investment environment.
work must therefore continue to address the current challenges through smart fiscal consolidation and through reforms that enable a sustainable recovery for growth and jobs.
but, in order to anchor expectations on the long-term perspective of the euro to ensure its sustainability, we need to pursue the profound rebuilding of economic and monetary union.
in view of this, certain preliminary steps are obviously necessary to ensure not only the feasibility of the introduction of stability bonds but also their sustainability in the political and economic future of the union.
this should be accompanied by conditions necessary to reduce so-called moral hazards or system abuses, thereby strengthening fiscal discipline and paving the way for other measures that constitute and contribute to market stability and sovereign debt sustainability.
other ways of managing and resolving the economic crisis should also be explored in order to minimise the impact on the real economy, although greater sustainability of public finances is undoubtedly the first step towards returning to growth.
this reduction refers to all categories of unproductive expenditure, to all waste, especially that of the public administration, and to the inefficiencies of the various levels of government.
the labour market must be improved by reducing taxation and the business environment to facilitate business activity, recovering the competitiveness lost in recent years and increasing the share of investment that can stimulate euro productivity.
we apply a country-specific differentiated approach to fiscal consolidation, and each country’s consolidation effort is specified in so-called ‘structural terms’, which means focusing on the medium-term budgetary objective to reduce debt, and thus on the structural sustainability of public finances over the medium term.
that is why we simply have to work with consistency towards the steady consolidation of our public finances and towards sustainable growth and job creation in europe.
second theme: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to the detriment of the environment.
mr president, the situation is exactly the same as in the previous vote: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
mr president, apart from the timetable, i want to send a clear message: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
- i support the report by mrs rosbach on measures for the sustainable management and exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea.
the specific theme is also an excellent area for regulatory testing, given the many implications of the common fisheries policy in terms of environmental, economic and industrial sustainability.
- i welcome the text voted on today, which concerns a subject of particular importance for italy: the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources in the mediterranean sea.
i believe that member states should step up their efforts in implementing this regulation; the commission has also proposed that the fishing fleet in the mediterranean should take into account the protection of resources and the environment on the one hand and the market and the supply chain linked to fishing activities on the other.
- the vote today focuses on the delicate balance we must strike between economic exploitation of the mediterranean's marine resources, with the many families who live off this activity, and environmental protection.
beyond the specific, highly technical issue, the european parliament considers it essential to protect the sea within the framework of rules that make fishing in european seas safer and more sustainable.
− environmental protection and market interests must be balanced in such a way that neither damages the other nor limits the other.
i voted in favour of mrs rosbach's text on management measures for the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources in the mediterranean sea because the regulation of fishing activities must be updated.
in order to respect the environment and the marine ecosystem, these activities must not be invasive but effective and equipped with technical elements capable of assessing the activity to be carried out in the interests of consumers.
i think the text strikes a good balance between respect for the environment, the fisheries market and the offer to the citizen.
i hope that the state of implementation of regulation (ec) no 1967/2006 will improve, that member states should step up their efforts to implement that regulation, and that the reform of the common fisheries policy will enable a rapid finding, through a new regional framework, of an appropriate regulatory solution for the mediterranean sea, accepted by the member states and the parties concerned, taking into account the specificities of that sea basin, while effectively ensuring and protecting the sustainability of fishing activities and the protection of resources and the environment.
the text voted today concerns a matter of primary importance: the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources in the mediterranean sea.
the current provisions need to be modernised in order to make better use of marine products, while respecting the environment.
i therefore believe that a reform of the common fisheries policy will enable us to find an appropriate regulatory solution for the mediterranean sea in the short term, which will be accepted by the member states and the parties concerned, taking account of the specific features of this sea basin, while effectively ensuring the sustainability of fishing activities and the protection of resources and the environment.
i therefore agree with the rapporteur, mr pallone, that we must pursue a policy of consolidation, which is based on cutting waste and unproductive public spending instead of increasing taxes on citizens.
this does not mean reducing public investment in the productive sectors of the economy, nor does it impose a burden on citizens by increasing tax revenue: but it requires a commitment to tackle waste, inefficiency and tax evasion.
but we must also be committed to steering our actions in a sustainable way for local communities and territories, which are recognised as attracting cultural, natural and tourist
in writing.
mr president, the ambitious objective we set in the report on the role of cohesion policy in implementing the new european energy policy is the result of work done in the regi committee with itre and i must say that we set the ambitious objective that, after 2015, no region in the member states should remain isolated from the european gas and electricity networks.
mr president, with the kolarska-bobińska report the regi committee is asking for a clear direction to be given to the use of the huge resources which the european union has made available for energy investments through the budget.
the report sets out three main objectives to be pursued: diversification of the energy mix, improvement of energy production efficiency and the extension and modernisation of energy infrastructure.
the second point raised in the kolarska-bobińska report is the need for energy policies to be managed in a less centralised way and to pay more attention to the specific features of the regions.
the energy question is also vital if european industry is to overcome the present crisis.
in today's vote, parliament calls for the regional authorities, which are the closest to the citizen, to be the main partners of the commission and the member states when designing energy projects.
these are very specific measures which must take account of the diversity of the territory: some regions need to focus more on the energy efficiency of buildings, others lack basic infrastructure in the distribution of gas and electricity, some are richer in renewable resources, others need to drastically reduce harmful emissions.
this is why cohesion policy must play a more central role in thinking about europe's energy future.
− eu cohesion policy can and must play an important role in defining and implementing the new european energy policy.
as i have already said in the report, which i voted in favour of, cohesion policy can benefit from european energy projects.
in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, territories can benefit from energy legislation that increases their autonomous capacity to manage these resources.
while keeping the objectives of the two plans - cohesion policy on the one hand and the energy strategy on the other - separate, it is clear that the broad outline of european energy policy will be an important player in the recovery of europe's currently most disadvantaged territories.
- i have decided to vote in favour of the draft report on the role of eu cohesion policy and its actors in implementing the new european energy policy.
the own-initiative report recognises the link between cohesion policy and energy policy and presents the following aspects: 1) european energy policy must ensure the security of energy resources, diversification of supplies and affordability for the end user.
2. sees european energy projects as a means of strengthening territorial cooperation and helping regions to manage their energy resources; 3. considers that investment in energy-efficient construction and transport is linked to the creation of new jobs; 4. recalls the importance of the structural and cohesion funds in achieving the europe 2020 objectives on energy efficiency; (5) considers that simplifying the procedures for accessing the funds is essential to ensure their efficient use.
- i voted in favour of the report because i am convinced that cohesion policy can play a key role in exploiting the potential of innovation, research and development, so that future challenges in the energy sector can be transformed into an opportunity to boost the union's economic power.
the common objectives of european energy policy are security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness.
i welcome the overall approach of linking cohesion policy to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in order to embark on the path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
i also believe that initiatives to support local and regional energy saving capacities should be promoted, including through the promotion of erdf and esf investments.
my vote in favour of the new wording is due to the need not to waste the opportunity for parliament to express itself clearly on these crucial issues, but i believe that the original text of the resolution, voted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs, would have represented a far more forceful alternative and a greater incentive for the commission to outline a more precise roadmap from the outset.
- i voted in favour of mrs goulard's proposal because i believe it aims to ensure a sustainable budgetary discipline which takes full account of the respective situations of the member states.
− in the current economic climate, member states are having difficulty accessing finance at reasonable rates because of market distrust of public debt and the situation of european banks, as well as the ability of european leaders to take definitive action to protect and integrate the single currency.
its nuclear monopoly in the middle east is not sustainable over the long run, and a region with no weapons of mass destruction is preferable to one that has multiple nuclear-weapon states.
so the 2013 conference is yet another opportunity to create a gun-free zone and to re-establish a climate of mutual trust and cooperation.
a baby shower produced in china has a retail price equal to one third of what the production cost is in italy; but to that cost must be added the social costs, the exploitation of children, impossible working hours, no protection for the health of workers, the environment, children, women workers.
the agreement, concluded for a renewable period of 10 years, aims to provide a solid basis for strengthening ties between iraq and the eu, as well as for the establishment of an annual dialogue on issues such as peace, foreign and security policy, democracy, the rule of law, human rights and good governance.
the country of origin labelling of products imported into the union from third countries, such as clothing, shoes and jewellery, is firstly a necessary commercial measure to increase the competitiveness of european companies vis-à-vis their wto competitors and secondly a sacrosanct measure of transparency to protect consumers, aimed at enhancing both our quality production and compliance with the strict european social and environmental legislation.
but not making labelling compulsory for products imported from non-european countries means favouring the large multinationals which exploit workers, women and children and use low-quality materials which are often harmful to health and the environment.
first of all, we must ensure the sustainability of bank financing and, in the negotiations on the increase of capital requirements for banks, in the framework of basel iii, we are in the process of defining favourable conditions for loans to small and mediumsized enterprises.
the agenda includes the report by antonyia parvanova, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the transparency of measures regulating the pricing of medicinal products for human use and their inclusion in public health insurance schemes (com (((2012) 0084 c7-0056/2012 2012/0035 ((cod)) (a7-0015/2013).
in this sense, the draft report under consideration, while fully respecting the exclusive competence of the member states in this field, aims to set out a framework capable of ensuring the application of transparent and appropriate rules to the measures adopted at national level in the field of price-setting and reimbursement, with the ultimate aim of facilitating access to more sustainable care for patients and at the same time encouraging research into new medicines.
the next item is the commission statement on the recovery of european industry in the present difficult economic climate.
the six priority markets identified are clean production technologies, sustainable construction, bio-economy products, generic key technologies, clean vehicles and smart energy networks.
i would therefore like to thank the house and the committee on industry, research and energy once again for their help and their ability to try to provide us with real advice on competitiveness and industry.
i would like to summarize some of the points of this strategy, this new strategy which you indicated for industrial policy: i believe in more integration between the different production chains and between the production chains and the services; i believe in the creation of a european energy market which reduces costs and dependence; i am thinking of a large programme of infrastructure investment supported by eurobonds; i am thinking of financial instruments which attract private capital for medium and long-term strategic investments; i am thinking of support for research which is right in our hands, within our reach; and i am thinking of training for innovation, because support for highly qualified human capital in business is a key asset for an innovative and green policy for industry.
then there is the problem of environmental policy.
we are the flag bearers of the fight against climate change, but this choice also involves sacrifices.
i have repeatedly said that we cannot, in the absence of a global agreement, go beyond the 20% threshold for reducing co2 emissions, because our industry is not able to exceed that target, even though it would be desirable.
but we must be realistic if we are to prevent relocation which would also cause enormous damage to our action against climate change, because part of the industry would go to produce where there are no strong rules against climate change and this would also damage our action for the environment.
we have many community rules, not only industrial policy, but also environmental policy and competition policy, which often require us to make choices which can then have repercussions, in particular, which require subsequent action.
we continue to discuss ideas and proposals on how we want to have a modern industrial policy which respects the environment and which is in fact geared towards a green economy, which creates jobs.
we think of the space industry and all the benefits that will come from the work of galileo, our satellite project which will be operational by the end of 2014. the uk government itself, together with the european commission, organised a major event dedicated to the services and service companies that will apply galileo signals on the ground in the fields of agriculture, fisheries, transport and health, for the protection of the environment and the fight against climate change.
msy means being able to fish what is sustainable.
that is what the elimination of waste means, and it is a very simple element that european citizens can understand.
it is clear that we think the same about management by maximum sustainable yield as we did this morning.
i believe that the reform must be carried out and we must go on, but probably a greater point of synthesis would certainly be to the benefit of both the sustainability of fisheries and our fishermen, because then the reform must clash on a daily basis with the livelihood of our fishermen and someone must explain to them that europe is working for them and not against them.
the reduction of fish stocks is now well established and scientifically proven, and the new common fisheries policy is complementing this need by laying the regulatory foundations for sustainable fisheries management.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that this fisheries reform could mark a significant step forward in establishing a broadly shared framework for sustainable development in which economic viability can also be guaranteed.
in order to deal with the permanent and structural difficulties of the agricultural sector in the aegean islands, a clear strategic orientation was therefore needed, which envisaged, as suggested by the rapporteur, the adoption of measures for the protection of the environment, the development of tourism and the support of rural infrastructure in the near future.
the small size, the difficulty of access both from outside and from within, the demographic decline, the ageing of the population, the lack of basic raw materials (water, electricity, fuel), as well as the geophysical and climatic conditions, are the factors that determine the very particular environment of the smaller aegean islands.
the costs of remoteness and isolation must be added to those resulting from the applicable food safety and environmental standards.
this is accompanied by the need to ensure more resources for smes under the cosme and horizon 2020 programmes and the commitment to maintain, also in the context of a simplification of the regulatory and administrative environment for smes, the social protection of workers and their health and safety at work.
i have decided to vote in favour of the report by mr philippe de backer because: 1) support the simplification of the regulatory and administrative environment for smes, together with adequate protection of workers in the areas of social security and health and safety at work; 2. calls on the european commission to support the development of a wide range of programmes, instruments and initiatives with a view to partnership between banks and other actors involved in sme financing such as business associations or chambers of commerce; 3. calls on the commission to make the new sme legislation subject to a comprehensive and inclusive impact assessment, including an examination of the needs and difficulties faced by smes; 4) calls for action to be taken against possible discrimination in access to finance for smes run by disadvantaged people or social groups and for the promotion of female entrepreneurship.
they are therefore the backbone of the european union economy and of europe's long-term economic growth with the potential to create sustainable jobs in the 27 member states.
it must be growth-friendly; it must leave room for public investment and have a sustainable space.
for this reason, it is necessary to encourage innovative business solutions, such as intelligent transport or eco-efficient products, which enable businesses to address social and environmental challenges while strengthening their market position.
finally, as regards the possibility of regulating the transparency of social and environmental information, it is essential that any intervention in this respect be compatible with the multidimensional nature of social responsibility and grant enterprises the necessary operational flexibility without causing additional administrative burdens.
smes can not only facilitate the spread of social responsibility, but they have the potential to tackle social and environmental problems collectively, reducing costs and multiplying benefits.
so environmental protection is another value, collaboration between workers and employers is another value.
fair trade, intelligent transport and innovation that takes account of the protection of the territory and the environment are improvement goals.
i agree with the rapporteur that there is a need for transparency in the social and environmental information provided by companies and for the development of a code of ethics for self-regulation to improve the effectiveness of the corporate social responsibility process, provided that this does not increase bureaucracy and administrative burdens.
so my appeal is that 51 be rejected and replaced by 61.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, noise pollution and its effects on human health are not to be underestimated.
i am in favour of the introduction of avas, which takes into account the needs of protected groups such as children and the blind, who may be put at risk by vehicles such as electric vehicles with very low noise emissions.
increasing employment in europe is a top priority which, together with a high level of productivity and social cohesion, will finally enable us to achieve the smart, sustainable and inclusive growth we are all committed to and have enshrined in the europe 2020 strategy.
the failed policy of overfishing over the last 40 years has threatened the biodiversity of our seas and made our fishermen unemployed or dependent on subsidies, and with the decline of fish stocks europe is now forced to import 66% of the fish it consumes.
by 2015, overfishing must be converted to ecologically sustainable fishing.
the ban on discarding dead fish, which results in the waste of 1.7 million tonnes of dead fish in europe every year, must be strengthened by the obligation to land all catches, without exception.
the only future for european fisheries is to achieve ecologically sustainable fisheries.
i fully agree with the stated objective of this regulatory initiative to review the common fisheries policy and thus to ensure the sustainability of fisheries, to review the quota system and to rebuild fish stocks.
− the fisheries reform aims to ensure that fisheries and aquaculture activities create sustainable environmental conditions in the long term and contribute to food security.
the introduction of maximum sustainable yield, recovery of fish stocks, marine protected areas, prohibition of discards, regionalisation of responsibilities: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to help the fishermen in the mediterranean, such as the introduction of a new system of fishing quotas for the mediterranean, the establishment of a sustainable fisheries and aquaculture policy, the protection of the great environmental resource of our seas and the guarantee of the availability of good quality food.
the new regulation has the ambitious aim of reversing the negative trend and ensuring sustainable and effective fisheries in europe.
the rules and operating mechanisms established for this sector in the previous programming period are outdated and far from the needs of the market and the environment.
to this end, i certainly welcomed the content of the regulation proposed by the european commission which aims to 'ensure that fishing and aquaculture activities create sustainable environmental conditions in the long term and contribute to the availability of food supplies', mainly affecting maximum sustainable catch, the modification of the functioning of fisheries waste and aquaculture.
- today's debate saw the adoption by a large majority of the basic regulation for the new common fisheries policy, which, if ratified by the member states, will ensure the sustainability of the sector and put an end to the discharge of fisheries products at sea.
i fully agree with the need to ensure the sustainability of the fisheries themselves, to review the quota system and to restore fish stocks.
the new basic regulation must therefore constitute an ambitious pillar to reverse the ongoing negative trend and ensure sustainable and effective fisheries in europe.
from 2014 it will be easier to plan for a sustainable development of the sector that will end the dumping of so-called 'waste' at sea.
intensive fishing practices will now be countered by new rules which will take into account the reproduction rates of the different species, bringing fishing back to a more qualitative and sustainable dimension.
the fight against noise pollution is a goal that cannot be left unfulfilled, and yet this goal can only be fully achieved if we make it compatible with the duty to make our society and our world more equal for all, less unequal.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the noise level of motor vehicles has the main objective of protecting public health and the environment by means of measures to reduce the noise level of motor vehicles.
while i welcome the general thrust of the proposal as an important step in countering the effects on public health and the environment of noise emissions from motor vehicles, i do not think it pays sufficient attention to consumer information on the noise level of motor vehicles.
- i voted in favour of mrs liotard's report because i believe that it sets out some important initiatives to combat the effects of noise emissions from motor vehicles on public health and the environment.
i also find the proposal to introduce a system of labelling of vehicle noise emissions, aimed at promoting low-noise vehicle types, interesting.
- in our cities, noise pollution caused by normal daily traffic has reached levels that are now very difficult to sustain and it is therefore right that proposals are put forward to reduce this type of pollution as well.
the text voted on today can be considered a good compromise, since it has succeeded in eliminating some ultra-environmental excesses which could have caused considerable damage to motor vehicle manufacturers, who are already not operating in optimum conditions at this time.
the right balance must always be struck between respect for the environment and health and the protection of industries and workers.
similar labels are already used for fuel consumption, tyre noise and co2 emissions.
today, in fact, numerous scientific studies show that prolonged exposure to high levels of noise pollution can limit the functioning of internal organs, facilitating the onset of diseases such as cardiovascular diseases.
- i supported the proposal for a regulation on the noise level of motor vehicles because i believe that it has focused on the objective of finding the right balance between respect for the environment and the health of european citizens on the one hand and the protection of the internal market in motor vehicles and the interests of european industry on the other, particularly at this time of crisis for the whole sector.
− traffic noise affects the health and wellbeing of european citizens and the european commission has therefore put forward a proposal for a regulation aimed at reducing noise emissions from motor vehicles by around 25%.
this proposal provides for a very ambitious and gradual reduction in noise emissions, which in some cases would create problems for the companies in the sector concerned to implement within the time limits.
the failure of a member state to ensure efficient management of migration flows not only affects the country concerned, but also many other member states
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, overcapacity is not only destroying the biodiversity of our seas, it is also severely reducing any future prospects for the fishermen of the union.
the european fisheries sector can only survive if it becomes truly sustainable.
− the adoption of these measures in conjunction with the vote on the new regulation on the common fisheries policy represents an integrated approach, widely shared in parliament, to a subject which is fundamental to the future sustainability of the union's fisheries resources.
− i am in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 850/98 for the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures for the protection of juveniles and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1288/2009, as technical conservation measures are standards that fishermen throughout the european union are required to comply with on a daily basis in their fishing trips to ensure that fishing is always sustainable, regardless of how and where it is carried out.
these measures concern, inter alia, minimum landing sizes, minimum mesh size of nets, no-take zones and periods, limitation of by-catches, criteria for the use of more selective fishing gear and measures to protect the marine environment, thus having a significant impact on the achievement of the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp).
i therefore fully recognize the need for technical measures to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks and the conservation of ecosystems.
while i strongly recognise the need to respect the marine environment, i believe it would be more appropriate to bring the rate of discard from the 3% proposed in the report to the 10% proposed by the ppe group, to protect operators in the sector who, in some cases, risk not seeing their interests safeguarded.
the next item is the debate on: question with request for an oral reply to the council on eu preparations for unfccc cop 19 by matthias groote, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000214/2012 b7-0107/2013), and question with request for an oral reply to the commission on eu preparations for unfccc cop 19 by matthias groote, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000215/2012 b7-0106/2013).
listening to the comments here, all our institutions share that ambition to take real action which can embrace, and indeed champion, the move to a low-carbon and more sustainable economy.
we are facilitating a debate at ministerial level at the forthcoming informal council meeting in april, which will involve both energy and environment ministers.
on the issue of climate finance, which was raised by a number of contributors, the irish presidency intends to move forward the analysis, and indeed the debate, on climate finance, especially in relation to future finance flows.
the irish presidency, and the entire council, recognises that we cannot simply wait for a 2020 climate-effective world.
under the adp we are prioritising actions to improve emissions mitigation now.
i would simply say in conclusion that i understand that there are very strong feelings here in the chamber and very strong views right across the european parliament and in the other institutions urging us to drive forward with our climate negotiation process and do it by showing leadership, both within council and within the other european institutions, and to make every effort to maintain positive dialogue between the institutions.
many in this room today said that we should do more, and with urgency, on energy efficiency and with renewables.
one of the key tools we have is the emissions trading scheme; the idea of putting a price on carbon.
one lesson learnt from europe by korea, china, california, australia and many other parts of the world where they are starting to make climate policies concerns carbon and emissions trading, and i agree with what mr arsenis said.
when they start to define their targets they ask how to do this in a cost-efficient way, and then they come to the solution of having some kind of pricing of carbon and emissions trading.
the energy mix in the future, as now, will be up to each individual member state.
there is one thing we need to understand, and that is that everyone who knows this business, this area, tells us that you can make shale gas in europe, but do not believe it will be as cheap as the energy they have in the united states because, unfortunately, we do not have areas like north dakota where there are almost no people living there.
no matter how we put it, shale gas and gas can be fine as a bridging technology, but it does not change the fact that if we want to go to a low-carbon society by 2050 and follow what science tells us is necessary in climate, then that will not be enough.
we should now listen to present obama, who in his inauguration speech claimed that he wants to do more in climate in his second term than in the first.
almost 100 countries now have climate targets.
it would be a pity now to stand idly by when other big economies get the message and actually start to move forward, and when the world bank, and the imf leaders can stand in davos and say you ‘cannot address the economic challenges of this century unless you understand climate change and do something about it’.
if there is anything that we need in climate change it is the ability to do that, and to incorporate our economic issues, growth needs and our job needs into our intelligent climate policies.
today, i am urging you not only because i believe that time is of the essence, but also because at a time of european union weakness the guarantee of rights that only mutual trust and uniformity can guarantee ...
i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative of presenting a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
in short, the eib must be able, also by clearly defining its objectives and control criteria, to preserve its independence in the selection of projects in order to ensure a sustainable use of its resources.
the report also mentions the european investment bank's investments in research and innovation, agricultural policy, energy efficiency and resources, as well as synergies with the european union for programmes such as the cap, horizon 2020 and the structural funds.
the eib is called upon to play its part by financing investment in infrastructure and small and medium-sized enterprises and by combating climate change, mainly to support the progress of political and economic reforms.
in this difficult environment the eib has to assume its role of a policy-driven bank, to act as a counter-cyclical institution and continue to provide financing to the real economy.
there was a specific question raised by bas eickhout that i would just like to comment on, regarding the new energy policy.
this is an ongoing debate, but i also think that it is fair to draw your attention to the significant increase in the eib’s projected activity in the area of climate change and what has been going on in recent years.
that also goes for investments in renewables and energy efficiency.
when we make a european energy policy, we make a policy together, we, the institutions of the european union: you, the commission and the council.
but we do not make the energy policy of the european union.
we are second to none when it comes to international financial institutions, the financial climate and investment in renewable energies and modern energy efficiency.
moreover, this report places a strong emphasis on the close relationship between active ageing and the environment and the social and urban context in which it matures, an essential condition to be taken into account when adopting such measures.
but it is useless to continue to refuse to take seriously what is the real waste of the european parliament, namely this strasbourg seat.
this new definition means that companies must have a process in place in their core and commercial strategy which takes into account social, environmental and ethical issues, human rights and consumer demands.
the aim of the text is to ensure that companies incorporate into their core business strategy a process which integrates social, environmental and ethical issues, human rights and the demands of end consumers.
- i voted in favour of the positions taken by mr baldassarre in the report on corporate social responsibility, agreeing with the new definition of csr proposed by the commission, according to which companies must have a process that manages to integrate social, environmental and ethical issues, human rights and consumer concerns into their core business strategy.
being an entrepreneur meant voluntarily going beyond simple economic logic and taking into account how one's business behaviour affects the environment and in relationships with staff, the local community, business partners, customers and institutions.
they should not be excluded from doing business but rather encouraged by tax and legal incentives as they have the ambition to set social and environmental standards.
in this respect, i believe it is essential to strengthen the relationship between csr and citizens by implementing strategies that are in line with the social context in which civil society lives and that enable businesses to address social and environmental challenges.
companies will therefore have to integrate social, environmental, ethical, respect for fundamental rights and consumer protection into their business activities.
if this is achieved, it will result in a sustainable economic recovery.
i also support the rapporteur's approach to allowing companies to calibrate the implementation of sustainable actions on the basis of their specific capabilities and needs.
the european commission is proposing a new definition of csr, defined as the responsibility of enterprises for their impact on society, and in line with the new definition, enterprises must have a process that integrates social, environmental and ethical issues, human rights and consumer concerns in order to secure new jobs and facilitate the exit from the crisis.
− i voted in favour of this report because it clearly states that corporate social responsibility (csr) is indispensable to the restoration of trust in business and a sustainable economic recovery.
- i voted in favour of the argument put forward by mr howitt in the committee on employment and social affairs on the subject of corporate social responsibility, which is the voluntary integration of environmental and social considerations into business operations, the latter therefore playing a primary role in the definition and implementation of csr support actions.
it is time for eu countries to make a real commitment to cutting waste and rationalising spending and, above all, to focus available resources and policies on real and concrete measures to boost the economy.
improving national budgets, with a view to promoting effective and sustainable budgetary policies, is one of the virtuous paths to follow.
most of all, it is important to stress the interdependence between the single market and other horizontal policy areas, including consumer and worker protection, social rights, the environment and sustainable development.
i also believe that the eib should assess the effectiveness and sustainability of the measures taken to counter the effects of the crisis in the years prior to 2011. a factual analysis of these measures would allow appropriate adjustments to be made in the bank's future choices.
but we know that without the active participation of women and their involvement in the building of institutions from below and their rights as an integral and inalienable part of human rights, there will be neither democracy nor effective and sustainable development.
the next item is the report by mr antónio fernando correia de campos, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on guidelines for trans-european energy infrastructure and repealing decision 1364/2006/ec (com(2011)0658 – c7-0371/2011 – 2011/0300(cod)) (a7-0036/2013).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr correia de campos, for the excellent work he has done on a report which sets out one of the main challenges in ensuring that european citizens have secure, sustainable and affordable energy.
this new energy infrastructure package aims to further promote the integration of the energy market and to foster its increased competitiveness through the integration of renewable energies and the reduction of energy isolation.
i think we should look with optimism at the efficiency that network building can give, not just in the energy sector but in all other activities - i am thinking of light infrastructure but also heavy infrastructure - and how it can be considered as an important contribution to growth in europe.
we must also think about reducing the time taken for authorizations, because the crisis is here before us and is creating its inconveniences for millions of citizens at this very moment: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
i particularly welcome the view that all energy sources are usable and that biofuel production should be based on food and agricultural waste products.
the previous president of parliament, mr buzek, had organized meetings between the national parliaments and the european parliament to ask for and create a common energy market: it is a pity that president schulz did not follow the path traced by his predecessor.
an energy-intensive industry whose costs are 30% of energy sources finds it more cost-effective to leave italy or europe and relocate.
the communication of 5 october highlights a number of key points: · the usefulness of the resistance testing procedure, even if limited in scope, in order to improve the safety culture in europe; • the importance of taking account of the dangers of radioactive waste storage; • the need to encourage close cooperation at international level, but not only in the definition of safety standards, even if they are fundamental; · the implementation of best practice; · the importance of extending the tests to the effects of aircraft impacts and emergency evacuation planning outside the site where the power plant is located; • the need to develop and promote the skills of staff and, finally, the need to achieve significant improvements in certain areas, such as procedures and the safety framework; the role, independence and means of nuclear regulatory authorities; the opening, transparency, monitoring and verification of data relating to nuclear power plants.
the group will pay particular attention to recent and on-going reforms, such as the implementation of the two-pack, the esm and other relevant instruments, in its analysis the group will pay particular attention to the sustainability of public finances, to the avoidance of moral hazard, as well as to other central issues, such as financial stability, financial integration and monetary policy transmission, the members of the group will be experts in law and economics, public finances, financial markets and sovereign debt management.
an exploration of further ways, within the preventive arm of the stability and growth pact, to accommodate under certain conditions, non-recurrent, public investment programmes with a proven impact on the sustainability of public finances made by the member states in the assessment of their stability and convergence programmes will be done in spring-summer 2013, in the context of the publication of the communication on the calendar of convergence towards the medium-term objective; after the decision on the next multiannual financial framework for the eu and before the end of 2013, the commission will put forward the following proposals to complement the existing framework for economic governance: measures to ensure greater ex-ante coordination of major economic reforms and the creation of a ‘convergence and competitiveness instrument’ to provide financial support for the timely implementation of structural reforms that enhance sustainable growth.
(loud applause)
mr president, i voted in favour of the report on transeuropean energy infrastructure because i believe that this regulation has the advantage of promoting certain fundamental aspects of european energy policy.
first, it gives a strong impetus to the completion of the internal energy market and its full integration, thus contributing to the objectives of energy security and, at the same time, to those of diversification of sources of supply.
we will also be able to modernise our energy networks to ensure that environmental sustainability is achieved by 2020. we naturally also want to see more development and employment for local communities, including through renewable sources and energy innovation.
mr president, sustainable, safe and affordable energy is one of the main challenges facing the european citizens.
despite the good intentions and ambitious targets set by the commission, european energy policy is making slow progress.
i therefore voted in favour of the text by mr correia de campos, which aims to speed up the completion of the internal energy market, thus achieving the objectives of the european union's energy and environmental policy.
- i supported the correia de campos report on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on guidelines for transeuropean energy infrastructures (ten-t).
this requires a new regulation to overcome these obstacles and to achieve the modernisation and interconnection of energy networks, minimising waste and maximising the effectiveness of interventions.
just think about the implications of these guidelines: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of pollution of the atmosphere by nitrates and their salts is a very good one.
- i voted in favour of mr correia de campos' report because i believe that it is a step in the right direction towards renewing europe's energy policy, with particular reference to transeuropean energy infrastructures.
in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, the new regulation is an important initiative, as it aims to make a decisive move towards the completion of the internal energy market.
it is clear that such action must be pursued through adequate modernisation and interconnection of energy networks.
but not only: a trans-european energy market should ensure greater competitiveness, counter decentralised production, attract new producers and act as a driver for the economy of the future.
− energy that is at the same time sustainable, safe, guaranteed and naturally accessible in cost is one of the main challenges of the european single market.
the internal energy market remains insufficiently integrated: some geographical areas remain energy-isolated.
access to diversified energy sources that can enhance energy security is not sufficient and there are no tangible benefits for consumers and businesses in terms of prices and sustainability.
a new approach at european level is therefore needed: we call on europe to play a more active role in coordinating and integrating national efforts, to accelerate the completion of the internal energy market, achieving the objectives of energy and environmental policy by mobilising very significant investments, boosting economic growth and creating jobs in the european union.
− one of the most important challenges to be overcome is the ability to generate sustainable energy that is safe and affordable.
a new approach at european level must be defined as soon as possible, one which can support the energy interdependence between the various countries, with brussels increasingly at the centre of a strong coordination of national efforts.
- i voted in favour of the correia de campos report because i believe that the implementation of the regulation contained in it can help to achieve a secure, sustainable, guaranteed and economic energy system.
the coordination of european energy networks is a priority to be achieved as soon as possible and energy policy is central to the european agenda.
the interconnection of european energy sources is proceeding too slowly and there are still obstacles, bottlenecks and bottlenecks, as well as wide gaps between the various countries.
the completion of appropriate infrastructure, such as so-called 'smart grids', is necessary to achieve a competitive cross-border energy market.
the adoption of this report will lead to more secure and reliable energy supplies and will bring significant benefits to consumers.
− within the europe 2020 programming framework, clear targets have been set for reducing ghg emissions, increasing the consumption of renewable energy sources and improving energy efficiency.
this includes the prospect of a more integrated european energy system, enabling efficient trans-european energy exchange, by modernising and interconnecting energy and gas networks and by providing infrastructure for the transport of oil and carbon dioxide.
a plan for securing the main energy networks and developing some of the most important ones will also be provided.
furthermore, i believe that the case of vienna airport is an important starting point for reflection in order to highlight the shortcomings of the current environmental impact assessment directive and to recognise the need to ensure less discretionary assessment parameters, ensuring the objectivity and impartiality of the competent authorities, avoiding conflicts of interest.
- vienna airport has been undergoing renovation and expansion since 1999. such works should generally be preceded by an environmental impact assessment (eia), which is not the procedure used in this case.
the complainants, considering the procedure not to be fully legitimate, requested the intervention of the european ombudsman who, after a careful inquiry, concluded that, although the commission had not acted in a correct manner, it should nevertheless be given the confidence to continue with the environmental impact assessment, and closed the inquiry in 2009. in november 2010, the complainants again contacted the ombudsman, who launched a second inquiry, which concluded with a finding that the complaint was well founded and resulted in a draft recommendation to the commission, urging it to correct its approach to the eia and to conclude the evaluation as soon as possible.
the european union cannot continue to be the leader in environmental and climate policy: the commitments must be global and binding on all.
- i did not support the arsenis report on accounting standards and action plans for greenhouse gas emissions and removals from land use, land use change and forestry activities.
i am convinced that additional burdens on member states in relation to climate legislation are unacceptable, at least until a binding global agreement is reached within the united nations framework convention on climate change.
− we believe that accounting for land use, land use change and forestry is a key element in climate policy and can contribute to mitigation, adaptation and conservation of biodiversity, as well as to the sustainable use of natural resources.
first, effective rules for accounting for greenhouse gas emissions and removals resulting from land-use activities should be established.
it will be necessary to provide for the obligation to establish accounting for emissions and the resulting removals and to propose, accordingly, that drainage and re-wetting of wetlands be considered as a category of activity for which accounting should be established.
in order to ensure harmonisation with a view to further integration into the union's emission reduction commitments and with current eu legislation, all member states should be required to account for carbon stocks using the same carbon and greenhouse gas sinks.
- i believe that we are all in favour of respecting and protecting the environment and the climate at the highest level in this house.
the climate and environmental issue is very complex and by its very nature global: the rules and principles must be set in the broadest possible context, whereas europe too often finds itself acting in isolation, as other large countries put their economic and commercial interests ahead of the protection of the planet.
− this vote aims to re-emphasise the importance of climate policies, making a concrete contribution to mitigation, adaptation and conservation of biodiversity and the sustainable use of natural resources.
the final objective should be to facilitate compliance with international obligations under the united nations framework convention on climate change and the kyoto protocol, ensuring full integration of these rules into the common agricultural policy and the renewable energy directive.
− the proposal provides for the establishment of effective standards for accounting for emissions and removals resulting from land use, land use change and forestry (lulucf).
it provides for compliance with international and eu obligations in this field, including the kyoto protocol, ensures consistency with future and current policies on environmental issues and with the principles of transparency, consistency, comparability, completeness and accuracy.
if these criteria are met and the corrections made to the draft, which include the possibility of making accounting compulsory for all carbon and greenhouse gas reservoirs related to the various categories of activities, of accounting for emissions from harvested wood products (hwp) extracted outside the union and used for energy purposes in the territory for indicative purposes, of applying the instantaneous oxidation method and at the same time providing information on the country of collection of hwp and the sustainability criteria adopted, the proposal can be an effective step forward for environmental monitoring policies and therefore meets my favourable opinion.
mr president, we have today approved the draft report on the mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions and other information on climate change at national and european union level.
the objective of this proposal is to review the monitoring mechanism and to strengthen the existing system in order to ensure that the european union and its member states respect and comply with their commitments under existing international climate change agreements and implement the related requirements of the climate and energy package at european level.
by reducing the rigidities that had been created between the various positions, this agreement avoided an unjustified widening of the scope of the proposal and thus an overlap with other regulatory instruments that would have led to the creation of additional burdens, and it was possible to ensure a good level of flexibility in the perspective of future international agreements in the climate field.
first, it must promote the fulfilment of the international obligations of the member states and the european union under the united nations framework convention on climate change and the kyoto protocol; ensure policy coherence with union legislation on coordination and integration, including inter alia the common agricultural policy and the renewable energy directive; finally, it must ensure that accounting practices and methods comply with the principles of transparency, consistency, comparability, completeness and accuracy, not only within the member states but also between them, as members of the european union.
i would like to stress what has already been well expressed by mr bartolozzi: as the shadow rapporteur on the document, i was able to follow all the stages of its drafting and we really managed to reach a fair point and avoid the criticisms that could have led to an extension of environmental legislation which was already very advanced, but that was not the aim of the commission and that was not the ultimate aim of the majority of members of the european parliament.
- i voted against the eickhout report on the proposal for a regulation on a mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions and other information on climate change at national and eu level.
this proposal goes far beyond the obligations imposed by the decisions of the un framework convention on climate change and extends further the monitoring and reporting obligations, with redundant and repetitive procedures, such as the examination of national inventories by eu officials, which seem to be created specifically to legitimize the functions of some euro-bureaucrats.
− we believe that timely, reliable and accurate greenhouse gas data are essential to verify whether the european union and its member states are on track to meet targets and to develop new, consolidated policies to tackle climate change.
efforts will be needed to simplify and improve existing european standards for reporting and monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions.
in line with the european parliament's earlier positions on the use of proceeds from the auctioning of allowances under the emissions trading system (ets), we support the position of our rapporteur that he intends to continue to keep a close eye on the current rules on the allocation of resources.
− the greenhouse gas monitoring and reporting (gmp) mechanism is a regulation that extends the control of gas emissions in accordance with the parameters of the kyoto protocol.
the regulation is designed to facilitate the eu and all its member states' compliance with international co2 emission obligations and related low-carbon development strategies.
the legislation on this subject thus becomes uniform in the protection of the climate and the environment and aims to develop new low-emission techniques through the exchange of information.
- the eickhout report, whose importance lies in the mandatory nature and improvement of monitoring and reporting procedures for greenhouse gas emissions, calls on the industrialized countries to continue their efforts to combat climate change and to involve the developing countries as well.
the adoption of this report is a small step towards europe's long-term climate goals, including reducing emissions, and will allow europe to continue to be at the forefront of environmental protection and climate change.
− the commission has proposed some improvements to the provisions contained in decision no 280/2004/ec on the mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions and overall energy use, leading to the possible adoption of a regulation.
they will also have to include information on the amount of energy from renewable sources and total final energy consumption in their reports.
in addition, with the aim of reducing and monitoring the emission of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, the regulation encourages the european union to involve both industrialised and developing countries in the project in order to achieve a common and winning strategy.
i am convinced that if the european institutions were able to communicate more effectively the initiatives which, in the process of integration, give greater rights to citizens, help to improve the quality of life of people, facilitate processes of social transformation and adaptation to crisis situations, promote bureaucratization and free up energy in the productive system, perhaps the climate would be different today.
its renewal will therefore be based on sustainable development, taking into account the geographical and social specificities of these areas.
as countries rich in biodiversity and natural resources, i am sure that the benefits of the association relationship can be mutual as they will undoubtedly encourage greater cooperation in research and innovation.
this new approach must promote their sustainable development, taking account of their specificities.
− the regional and international context in which the overseas countries and territories (octs) operate has changed considerably since the adoption of the current association decision in 2001. today, in an increasingly globalised and rapidly changing environment, the main challenge for the octs is to steer their economies towards growth that can be reconciled with the major economic challenges facing the rest of the world.
− the overseas countries and territories (octs) are key outposts for europe, often called upon to play a part in the eu's aspirational global role in the globalisation of trade, new environmental challenges and climate change.
on the other hand, the areas of cooperation for sustainable development could include competitiveness and refer to community programmes relating to innovation, research and enterprise.
the objectives of the new octs, as already set out in the common position of february 2011, aim at improving the octs' competitiveness, reducing their weaknesses and promoting cooperation with other partners, and are intended to drive the sustainable development of the octs, with particular attention to the expansion of the market for their products.
− ensuring that all european citizens have access to safe drinking water is a priority for policies concerning human health and environmental protection.
− water purity is one of the priorities of eu policies in the field of environmental protection and human health protection.
however, there are still many regions in europe where pollution levels are high.
the economic and financial crisis has for years now been seriously jeopardizing the solvency of the member states, and in a unitary economic environment - such as that of europe - the failure of a national economy would mean the failure of a project which, in addition to being economic, is also political and social.
− having regard to the formal approval by the european parliament and the council of the legislative package to strengthen economic governance in the eu and the euro area and agreeing that eu budgetary policy must be fully aligned with the new strategy for growth and jobs, the europe 2020 strategy, which is also intended to help overcome the eu crisis, i voted in favour of the proposal in order to move the eu economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth accompanied by high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion.
all these provisions must at the same time respect the community's objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, linked to responsible and sustainable economic growth.
the combined provisions of articles 1a and 13 provide a medium-term perspective which ensures the sustainability and strategic value of the initiative in the medium to long term, significantly reducing the risk of fraud or a disastrous interventionist change in the market.
although the public perception is unfortunately a little different, it must be remembered that these funds, with private resources, act in the same direction as many public policies are directed with money from the citizens; furthermore, their presence is a sign of a thriving market for highly innovative and research-based products, and so attracting them must go hand in hand with fostering a research environment that orients innovations towards the market.
they need to be supported by appropriate forms of financing, by improving the legal and fiscal environment and by adopting a european social etiquette.
the vision behind the report is to promote balanced development and encourage practical solidarity and social responsibility in a realistic market environment; the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is a very good one.
the situation is even more critical in the peripheral areas of the european union, where member states should exploit the enormous amounts of alternative forms of energy to create jobs, such as in the green sector, and reduce female unemployment.
the situation is even more critical in the peripheral areas of the eu, where, however, member states should exploit the enormous amounts of alternative forms of energy to create jobs, for example in the 'green' sector (solar or wind energy), and reduce female unemployment.
however, despite the constant renewal of the available means, there remains an objective gender inequality, which is reflected in the world of work, with different levels of contributions but also in the economic and political decision-making environment.
- the report by mr rossi, 'making the most of eu environmental measures', was put to the vote after the rapporteurs from the main groups of the ppe, s&d, alde and greens/efa had agreed on a long series of amendments with the sole purpose of distorting the content of the entire report, which is why i voted against it.
− this report, in the spirit of smart regulation, is an attempt to consolidate efforts to improve the implementation of european environmental legislation, by leveraging on the simplification of eu environmental law, reducing administrative burdens and strengthening european and national administrative structures.
the aim is to embark on a path towards effective implementation of european environmental legislation through the development of evidence-based policies and strategies, with the cooperation of the member states and local authorities.
it is a question of taking up the challenge of subsidiarity, of bringing environmental legislation into a closer relationship with citizens and national administrations, increasing its immediacy and transparency.
− the european union has developed considerable legislation on environmental protection.
environmental protection is not just a matter for businesses, but has a considerable impact on the lives of all citizens.
it is important, however, that all community directives are correctly transposed and implemented in accordance with the guidelines specifically laid down for environmental matters.
according to the latest data, the annual cost of non-implementation of eu environmental legislation is currently €50 billion in direct health and environmental costs, not including the negative effects on the state of the environment in the eu.
to prevent this from happening, all member states must be urged to adopt a responsible approach to environmental policy and to respect the correct use of environmental policy, ensuring a proper flow of information and transparency.
this will require increased monitoring and control and more frequent collection of updated data, including, where necessary, the establishment of an environmental law inspection unit to monitor and assist in the implementation of environmental legislation.
the report by mr ashworth and mr deß has already confirmed parliament's willingness and commitment to simplify the complex administrative machinery and reduce the burden on farmers, including for the common agricultural policy after 2013. the time has come to put that will into practice by developing and putting in place simple instruments that will foster greater compliance at all levels in a still uncertain financial environment.
that is why the regi committee has opted for a horizontal regulation based on effectiveness and efficiency and addressing the needs of farmers and rural communities, including those on the outskirts and on the margins, in order to have a greener and fairer cap, while maintaining greening as the first pillar, a cap that is nonetheless rigorous, in order to ensure long-term sustainability and the interoperability of resources and structures.
the regulation promotes sustainable, smart and less bureaucratic farming, which ensures real and effective environmental measures and reduces the gap between farmers who have received resources on the basis of historical expenditure in the past.
what we are about to vote on is the result of a difficult compromise, but it is an improvement on the commission's proposal in terms of simplification of bureaucracy, more attention to the environment, to enterprises and to labour, with more market management instruments.
but in any case, i could see that we were in favour of an agriculture which was more in line with the optimal management of natural resources, that the first pillar of the cap should contribute to the achievement of this objective, that we were in favour of an equivalence between the agri-environmental measures of the second pillar and other environmental practices, of an equivalence system which is therefore credible and simple to apply, of greening which should have a positive impact on all agricultural areas, and of a credible system of penalties to ensure the effectiveness of this type of greening.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
endocrine disruptors are unfortunately found almost everywhere: in food packaging, cosmetics, electronic equipment, building materials, furniture, textiles, toys, and all these products, in our daily use, are released into the environment where they accumulate, for example, in the dust in our homes.
protecting the health of european citizens and creating a healthier living environment around them is our imperative duty.
we are basing our policies on structural deficits, taking into account consolidation efforts, structural reforms and the external environment as well.
emerging from the debate here today, the message now has to be that we have no time to waste; that we have to move forward swiftly and with a sense of determination to arrive at a successful conclusion in these negotiations between the council and parliament.
we cannot help but notice, ladies and gentlemen, that china is the world's largest emitter of carbon dioxide and that the level of emissions is continuing to rise rapidly.
the social economy is a crucial element for the identity and sustainability of the european social model.
in the face of the challenges posed by the economic and financial crisis, mutual societies are providing vital and sustainable responses to growth, employment and social cohesion by providing affordable healthcare, social services and insurance to over 160 million european citizens, creating an estimated 350 000 jobs and helping to identify concrete solutions to reform welfare systems and the social economy.
it is a product that has a considerable, sometimes devastating, environmental impact with pesticides, insecticides and a huge use of water, which is necessary for the cultivation of the plantations, which also has remarkable, though small for the moment, examples of good fair and solidarity-based trade practices, which gives jobs to entire countries that depend on cotton - bangladesh, uzbekistan - but also to our textile industry, and which involves a very complex chain of responsibility, made up of producers, wholesalers, traders, brands, industries, consumers, even advertisers.
thirdly, we are working on new rules for granting the system of generalised preferences, subject to good governance and compliance with international conventions on labour and the environment.
these issues are the fight against market-distorting measures, the creation of better conditions for small producers in developing countries, increased transparency to reduce price volatility and speculation, and supporting the importance of the traceability of cotton fibres, avoiding unilateral measures such as export bans and strongly and drastically condemning the use of forced child labour in cotton fields, which is still a plague that afflicts us and which sees no different future; the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
infrastructure, energy, research, employment, immigration and agriculture are areas where the european union has great responsibilities and must therefore have the appropriate instruments to do so.
− whereas much of european legislation takes the form of directives setting general standards and objectives, leaving the choice of how to achieve these objectives to the member states and local and regional authorities, and whereas the lack of accurate information and knowledge on the state of implementation and quantitative data concerning various environmental sectors hinders the proper implementation of the environmental acquis; i believe that regional and local authorities can strengthen the sense of cooperation and ensure better implementation of legislation in the formulation of eu environmental policies, and i voted in favour of the proposal, although i do not fully agree with all the points.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
a reform of the union's revenue system is therefore essential to ensure that the european budget is more autonomous and, through enhanced synergy with national budgets, to promote the effective implementation of political commitments and priorities, as well as sustainable growth that supports education, innovation, infrastructure, smes and sustainable development as a whole.
the latter will have to be based on the europe 2020 strategy, focusing on the so-called knowledge triangle (education, research, innovation) but giving particular attention to the development of small businesses, the use of renewable energy and sustainable development.
i am in favour of direct payments that reward quality, environmental sustainability and food safety, for the benefit of all final customers, and therefore all citizens.
i believe that there is still much to be done for a more sustainable approach, but today is the first vote on a negotiating mandate.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
this is of strategic importance in view of the economic and environmental role of agriculture and forestry.
to ensure that europe's population is fed, we need modern, sustainable and innovative agriculture, which promotes quality agricultural production and increases employment.
we must protect our producers from selling their products below cost and promote competitive and sustainable agriculture which is in favour of territorial development and respectful of the environment.
finally, a balance has been struck between food security and improved environmental protection: now the eu's new agricultural policy will be able to provide even more public goods for european citizens.
− the reform of the common agricultural policy plays a key role in the european economic policy, and therefore it is necessary to take into account challenges such as climate change, water and energy conservation, soil erosion and biodiversity.
the result of comagri's work on the cap is to strike the right balance between 'greening' measures (corrected to avoid impact on farm production costs and questionable environmental effects) and market measures, while also reducing the bureaucratic burden of cap measures and their management and control.
i also believe that it is essential that the new agricultural policy should encourage farmers to take care of the environment, by stimulating the creation of new jobs, by supporting women in agriculture and the professional farmer.
being a farmer is a difficult business challenge, often dependent on atmospheric and environmental variables and characterised by harsh and prolonged working conditions.
mr president, the positive aspects have already been mentioned: i also agree that we need a long-term perspective that ensures predictability of investments in low-carbon technologies, etc., etc.
i would remind you that the european union accounts for only 11% of global greenhouse gas emissions and is still the only international economic community to have adopted binding legislation on greenhouse gas emissions.
i would like to remind you of the public resistance to major projects in the energy and infrastructure sectors.
i would remind you that it is of paramount importance that energy consumers be protected from further increases in the cost of energy.
all this has not been taken into account and i also regret very much that paragraph 91 has been adopted, which calls for permanent amendments to the current rules on emissions trading.
- i agree with the european union's objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050: the eu is still the only international economic community to have adopted binding legislation on greenhouse gas emissions.
we must, however, take account of the fact that there are some critical issues to be resolved, including the need to provide for measures to compensate for the increase in energy prices, which is an inevitable consequence of the decarbonisation process.
in this respect, consumer protection is needed, as energy prices in europe are higher than in most of our global partners.
i voted against paragraph 91 which calls for permanent amendments to the current emissions trading regulations: the proposed measures penalise industrial sectors through increased production costs and would severely curb growth and employment opportunities.
− i voted in favour of the report on the energy roadmap 2050 because it recognises the need for member states to work together to transform the energy system.
this text sets the basis for proposing legislative initiatives on energy policy, with a view to developing a policy framework for 2030, including milestones and targets on greenhouse gas emissions, renewable energy and energy efficiency.
i believe that, as energy infrastructure and installations typically take many years to complete and have a very long lifetime, we need to take action immediately setting up the right targets for the short, middle and long-term.
i also welcome the importance of a social dimension being included in the roadmap, which encourages member states to cooperate in a spirit of solidarity, paying special attention to energy poverty and low-income vulnerable households that are most affected by higher energy prices.
− while welcoming the commission's commitment to explore the possibilities of achieving the union's decarbonisation target while ensuring security of energy supply, i am concerned that it has based decarbonisation scenarios on the assumption of global climate action but has not carried out any analysis to determine a scenario based on achieving high levels of energy efficiency.
taking into account the variations in the energy mix between member states, it is necessary to address urgently the lack of studies in the commission's impact assessment on the social and economic implications of further greenhouse gas emission reductions for individual member states.
these studies, in my view, could form the basis for the formulation of equitable long-term solutions in the energy sector.
i believe that post-2020 commitments to new greenhouse gas emission reduction targets should be conditional on the commission presenting progress made, firstly, in implementing the 2020 reduction targets.
the commission should also present a supplementary assessment offering suggestions to avoid the risk of carbon leakage due to the relocation of production outside the union.
- i voted in favour of mrs tzavela's report on the energy roadmap 2050. i think this text is very balanced and acceptable, especially when it focuses on the lack of flexibility in the commission's roadmap and on the scenarios envisaged.
i support the rapporteur's view that it is essential to change the current approach to climate policy, which does not take account of the specificities of the various geographical areas and the socioeconomic realities of the individual regions of europe.
- i voted in favour of mrs tzavela's report which sets out a roadmap to 2050 in the energy sector because a long-term strategy is indispensable if we are to guarantee the social welfare and competitiveness of our industries.
in the light of the eu's commitment to reduce co2 emissions by 80% by 2050, the balance achieved between safeguarding the autonomy of member states to decide on the energy mix best suited to their national circumstances and the need for strong coordination at community level to maintain the consistency of action is commendable.
in particular, investment in renewable energy research is needed: energy policies must be supported alongside innovation policies to make a significant contribution to the recovery of the european economy and growth in all productive sectors.
- i voted in favour of this report because the importance of an energy policy for the european union at a time of economic and financial crisis such as the present one cannot be underestimated.
energy can and must also play a role as a stimulus for growth and the creation of new jobs.
improving energy efficiency, a greater commitment to the use of renewable energy and new energy infrastructure that is modern, intelligent and capable of enabling more flexible energy storage and use capacity, will have to be the pillars of the future european energy policy.
the industrial sector must be given the necessary incentives to promote investment that can foster development and reduce co2 emissions at the same time.
- i am voting in favour of the report on the energy roadmap 2050 - a future with energy.
at a time of economic and financial crisis such as the present one, the european union's energy policy cannot be underestimated.
energy can and must also play a role as a stimulus for growth and the creation of new jobs.
improving energy efficiency, greater commitment to the use of renewable energy and new modern, intelligent energy infrastructure capable of enabling more flexible energy storage and use capacity will have to be the pillars of future european energy policy.
the industry needs to be given the necessary incentives to promote investments that can foster development and reduce co2 emissions at the same time.
− the 85% to 90% reduction in emissions compared with 1990 identified in the roadmap sets the path towards a decarbonised economy by 2050, which will require major investment in all sectors of activity and particularly in research.
in this scenario of emission reductions, energy efficiency is a cost-effective way to achieve energy saving targets.
i understand that at this stage all technologies which can contribute to the reduction of emissions must be considered.
although i voted in favour of the report, i would urge caution on the geological storage of carbon dioxide (ccs).
the effects on the environment and the ecosystem are not yet known.
the report welcomes the commission's energy roadmap 2050 and its objective of ensuring fair and universal access to a sustainable energy supply for all european citizens.
the report recalls the competence of the member states to draw up their own energy plans but also stresses the importance of a community approach.
renewable energy, energy efficiency, flexible infrastructure and training on energy issues are key elements of a long-term strategy.
- i have decided to vote in favour of the report by mrs tzavela, as it highlights the shortcomings of the commission's energy roadmap 2050. it also criticises the effectiveness of the current eu climate policy approach of binding, top-down limits that are the same for everyone (one-size-fits-all), and strongly calls for this approach to be reversed, taking into account the specific geographical and socio-economic realities of the member states and regions.
the long-term (2050) objectives should therefore be measured at union rather than national level and not be based on binding milestones to 2030 and 2040. finally, it rightly insists on the wider energy mix, without prejudicial exclusions on any energy source and supply channel
in writing.
- i voted in favour of the report on the energy roadmap for 2050. this report deals with a central issue for the union: the european union's energy policy.
improving energy policy also means thinking about the future of europe and its industry, stimulating its competitiveness and also providing a social response: an efficient energy policy allows consumers to keep costs down considerably.
the report stresses first of all the need to improve energy efficiency and savings as soon as possible and also urges the member states to cooperate with each other in order to complete the internal energy market and the necessary infrastructure.
other important objectives set out in the report to be achieved by 2050 are diversification of sources and suppliers, the organisation of the gas market and the switch to renewable energy.
− energy policies are a very topical issue and of great interest to the european union, especially in the light of the europe 2020 strategy.
the targets for the next programming period are to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80% to 95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels, while the forecasts are based on certain assumptions about technological and economic developments.
in this climate, member states are urged to prepare a fertile ground for new policies and objectives, and the union is committed to promoting crossborder infrastructure affecting many member states.
it is also essential to apply strict measures not only on the operation of the plants but also on the disposal of waste.
in today's resolution parliament calls for guarantees for the safety of the installations and the treatment of waste to protect european citizens.
i believe we must avoid that investment in security has a negative impact on the price of energy for businesses and citizens, who are already bearing the brunt of the crisis.
the house also called for the commission to be given the power to adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and to the risk of carcinogens being released into the environment.
the commission has also examined the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection.
finally, i believe that controls should be strengthened to require all interested parties, in particular those involved in the treatment of asbestos waste in landfills, to classify any waste containing asbestos as hazardous waste to be disposed of only in specific landfills.
- i am in favour of this report, as direct exposure to asbestos fibres continues to cause considerable biological, moral, social and environmental damage to the populations concerned.
i believe it is important to protect the health of citizens, which is closely linked to the quality of the environment in which they live and work.
i am thinking, for example, of the introduction of the already tried and tested methods of disposing of asbestos, alternatives to landfilling, by productive recovery of the waste.
but i am thinking above all of the ex-legislature's assertion that those responsible for this environmental disaster, who have become immensely rich at the expense of the citizens, are called upon to bear the very high costs of cleaning up and securing the contaminated sites.
- mutual funds are voluntary groups of natural or legal persons whose purpose is to meet the needs of the members rather than to obtain a return on investment; they shall operate in accordance with the principles of voluntary membership and solidarity between members and shall be managed in accordance with democratic principles, thereby contributing to responsible and sustainable management.
− mr president, why did the commission propose the clarification of the eu emissions trading system directive in the first place?
the basic idea of the eu ets is very simple: to make the right to pollute our climate a scarce resource that has a price, so that companies think more about how to reduce emissions and integrate the cost of doing so into their investment and operational decisions.
because emissions rights can be traded, they will tend to end up with those businesses and factories that need them most for their activities and, therefore, are ready to pay the price if they need more than what they have received for free.
this approach is cost-effective for society and was therefore designed to be a key tool in the eu’s efforts to meet its climate objectives.
but in the case of a politically-created market set up through legislative action, such as the carbon market, policy-makers and legislators arguably have an even greater responsibility to act than in other markets if the assumptions on which their legislation was based have, meanwhile, fundamentally changed.
may i remind you once again of the point that we have just heard mr groote concede, that it was actually this parliament that, in conjunction with the energy efficiency directive, asked the commission to tackle this situation?
but i wish to stress that backloading in itself – which is what we are discussing today – will have no effect whatsoever on the amount of free allowances given to our energy-intensive companies, or on the total amount of allowances put into circulation in the years 2013-2020, the third phase.
we have never had any desire or intention of repeating this kind of exercise in the future, and that is also why the relevant amendments in this regard proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) would be acceptable to the commission.
secondly, as regards the concerns expressed about electricity prices and the risk of carbon leakage, the commission has analysed the expected impact of backloading in an impact assessment, including – to the extent feasible – on individual sectors.
let me stress this very clearly: backloading is expected to counteract any further fall in the carbon price in the short term, in other words to stop the bleeding.
it will not bring the price – or the impact on the risk of carbon leakage – anywhere close to the levels expected and politically accepted before the crisis, when the legislation was adopted.
today the carbon price is around eur 4. it was supposed at this time to be around eur 30, so do not tell us that the crisis is not impacting on the price.
this means that, even with backloading, the impact of the crisis will still be reflected in a considerably lower carbon price than originally expected.
the backdrop to all this is that climate change is getting worse.
the eu’s dependency on imported fossil fuels is increasing and so is, therefore, the bill we have to pay for our energy.
this is not only bad for the climate, it is also bad for our economy, our competitiveness and our jobs.
it cannot be in the interest of the european parliament to go back to renationalised climate and energy policies when one of the successes you have been instrumental in achieving is a europeanised climate and energy policy.
mr president, i represent the position taken by the committee on industry, research and energy, which, by a very large majority, rejected the proposal sent to us by the commission.
i am in complete agreement with mrs sartori, chairman of the committee on industry, research and energy.
as the conclusions of the last international conference on climate change showed, any binding commitments by other large global emitters comparable to those in europe will not be implemented until perhaps 2020. any action which would unilaterally increase the european effort to reduce emissions already set for 2020 would therefore appear to be totally unjustified and unacceptable.
the european union should move beyond the unilateral policy and regulatory approach to climate dumping, insisting on a tariff policy at the borders of the european union.
commissioner, we are not against the ets system and we do not want to abolish it, but it is also clear from this debate, however quiet, that even those who are in favour of back-loading admit that it is a kind of patch, and we do not need patches at the moment, but rather lasting solutions that put in place sound environmental policies, that can last over time, that give certainty and fair and workable solutions.
we have heard that different types of industry have different positions in italy as well: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
i don't think we can afford to raise the cost of energy today.
mr president, the aviation sector, which is included in the ets, is required to reduce its emissions by 5% by 2020, compared to 21% for the other ets sectors.
furthermore, only 15 percent of the shares are auctioned compared to 100 percent in the energy sector.
in view of the very recent results of the icao council meeting in november 2012, the commission proposes to temporarily suspend the application of the ets to intercontinental flights in relation to 2012 emissions, the so-called 'stop the clock', a proposal that is acceptable in the hope that, at the next icao assembly, the aviation sector will be excluded from the european ets.
mr president, commissioner, i believe that in environmental policy we must have the courage to take risks, and that is why i consider it very important to try to conclude an international agreement on air transport.
only by imposing precise constraints on all of them will they be able to encourage research and innovation in a way which is consistent with our environmental policies.
the report under consideration is of particular importance: parliament is called upon to express its opinion on the proposal for a decision amending directive 2003/87/ec to clarify the timing of greenhouse gas emission allowance auctions.
i reiterate, as i have emphasised on several occasions, my firm opposition to the european commission's proposal which, in my view, represents an arbitrary intervention in a market mechanism whose rules were already established with the 'climate and energy package' in 2008. the unilateralism of europe's climate policies is hurting european businesses!
i think it is a serious contradiction to ask our companies to make additional efforts by increasing the costs of climate policies, while continuing to make concessions to third countries which do not agree to be part of a global climate agreement.
a general increase in energy costs as an immediate effect of the temporary withdrawal of a number of allowances auctioned as proposed by the commission, in the face of a significant contraction in production, would help to slow down the recovery in the sectors most affected by the recent economic and financial crisis.
moreover, the unstable regulatory environment resulting from the proposed measure is likely to create further uncertainties for our potential investors.
the agenda includes the report by mr giles chichester, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european network and information security agency (enisa) (com (2010) 0521 c7-0302/2010 2010/0275 (cod)) (a7-0056/2013).
this interconnectedness requires a mix of ambition to keep global markets more open and sensitive to inclusiveness and sustainability concerns.
members of the committee have seen for themselves how sustainability concerns were addressed.
in many respects, we were able to give deserved prominence to human, social and environmental rights, thanks to the new powers acquired by parliament under the lisbon treaty with respect to trade policy.
regulation (ec) no 812/2004, which is seriously flawed, focuses mainly on the use of acoustic devices to deter incidental capture of cetaceans, although the latter face various threats such as habitat degradation, collisions with ships and underwater noise pollution.
this proposal is part of a context in which whale populations are in serious danger and are therefore drastically declining due to underwater noise pollution and habitat degradation.
mr president, the european parliament has just decided to refer back to the relevant committees the directive on the timing of greenhouse gas auctioning arrangements, which i agree with because i am against the back-loading proposal.
environmental protection - let me be clear - is our top priority, but in this time of crisis, back-loading would have led to a general increase in energy costs which, combined with a significant contraction in production, would have helped to slow down the recovery in the sectors most affected by the crisis, as well as creating further uncertainty for investors.
it was not appropriate to ask more of european companies, especially energy-intensive companies.
the european commission, before imposing new and more intransigent rules on european companies, must demand that reciprocity rules be respected with non-eu countries that do not agree to be part of a global climate agreement and therefore produce in the absence of adequate environmental protection rules.
- while expressing a positive view of the ets as a means of regulating and progressively reducing carbon dioxide emissions, i have decided to vote against the european commission's proposal to re-modulate the auction calendar and withdraw some 900 million greenhouse gas emission allowances from the market in order to increase their price.
in a period of crisis, economic stagnation and difficulties for the competitiveness of european manufacturing industry, an artificial increase in prices could have meant a further aggravation of the crisis for many industries, especially for those "energy-intensive".
in my region, sardinia, the cost of energy for industry is already unsustainable and is the main cause of the closure of many factories and the thousands of unemployed or in cash.
if the european emissions trading system needs updating, then work should be done on structural reforms to ensure that companies can also plan for the medium to long term.
- i voted against the commission's proposal for a backloading mechanism for co2 emissions trading, because there are too many concerns about this initiative.
i have always had doubts about this system, and in particular about its actual effectiveness in helping to reduce co2 emissions, a laudable objective which certainly deserves support.
in the present economic climate we cannot afford to have two commissions working to conflicting conclusions and we must coordinate our efforts better.
i believe that at the moment, in these circumstances, a mandate to negotiate cannot be given until parliament has been able to agree on how to achieve the environmental policy objectives and how to compensate for the losses that the industrial sector is expected to suffer, especially in terms of employment.
in the absence of a serious and credible strategy, environmental issues will have to undermine the economic well-being of thousands of families who depend on the industrial sector for their livelihood.
- i voted against the proposal to amend the rules on co2 emissions trading which was intended to freeze temporarily 900 million tonnes of co2 allowances with the aim of raising the price (or at least containing the fall).
without forgetting the fight against climate change, i believe that, at this time of crisis and economic difficulties, backloading would have led to the closure or relocation of our companies outside the eu, as the minimum price for co2 allowances would have been set by the european commission, not the market, as has been the case so far.
it should be said that the emissions market has not always been an incentive for the use of clean technologies, so the whole system would probably have to be rethought, with the eventual overcoming of this mechanism.
the european commission was surprised by a drastic reduction in the cost of these emissions, which should be welcomed, since the environmental objective would be achieved at a lower cost to producers and polluters.
the word pollution should not be understood in the usual negative sense of the term, but as an obvious result of a production process, which cannot therefore be eliminated.
− the european union emissions trading system (eu ets) is a key tool for cost-efficient reduction of eu industrial emissions and since the start of the second trading period in 2008, emissions have been reduced by more than 10%.
− the current economic crisis has caused an oversupply of greenhouse gas emission certificates, causing their price to fall on the market.
in addition, the current european economic crisis, which has particularly affected the manufacturing and steel sectors, cannot support an additional energy cost.
− in view of a cost-efficient reduction of eu industrial emissions, the eu emissions trading scheme (eu ets) has proved useful, producing an emission reduction of 10%.
the price of carbon has therefore fallen significantly, and this has led to a decline in investment in low-carbon technologies.
the temporary amendment to directive 2003/87/ec is therefore a good thing, but in a context of clarity that encourages concrete steps towards a global emissions governance policy: more explicitly, i agree with the net declaratory in the interest of legal certainty; i agree with the limitation to the year 2012 for reasons of fairness and market transparency.
it is also important to remember that there are other issues at stake in the issue of greenhouse gas emission trading.
the crisis has brought the problem of the cost of energy to our companies into sharper focus.
many companies, i am thinking for example of the manufacturing sector, faced with a further increase in the cost of energy (the first consequence if the measure were to pass) would be forced to close down.
− in 2008, after long and careful deliberation, the european parliament and the council reached agreement on the inclusion of aviation in the eu's greenhouse gas emissions trading system (ets).
the rationale behind the inclusion of aviation was the need to address the rapid increase in greenhouse gas emissions from the sector.
- this vote avoids interference with the emissions trading system designed to cut greenhouse gas production, which needs a major overhaul.
- greenhouse gas emissions from air traffic are continuing to increase: since the 1990s, it's actually doubled.
the decision to include aviation in the ets is an important choice to limit the negative environmental effects of climate change; however, this decision will only make sense if we can reach a global agreement.
the aim is to reach a global agreement on the co2 emissions system.
i am in favour of the commission's proposal: europe must send a strong signal of its commitment to climate change to the rest of the world and facilitate this process of accession by third countries.
− the aviation system is now producing significant amounts of greenhouse gas emissions, which are expected to increase in the coming years.
for this reason, it is considered that aviation should be included in the european union emissions trading scheme (ets).
i particularly welcome the provisions specifically concerning smes, such as the 30% reduction in the risk-rate for loans, and the proposal to halve the risk-rate for loans to finance infrastructure projects in the fields of transport, energy and telecommunications.
i particularly welcome the provisions specifically concerning smes, such as the 30% reduction in the risk-rate for loans, and the proposal to halve the risk-rate for loans to finance infrastructure projects in the fields of transport, energy and telecommunications.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
finally, i would draw the commission's attention to the need to take greater account of the new challenges of development aid through trade and to actively contribute to strengthening the capacity of governments to integrate sustainable economic development into their national trade strategies and programmes.
it stressed that investment policy posed two major challenges for developing countries: at national level, this policy must be integrated into the development strategy, providing for sustainable development objectives, while at international level it is necessary to strengthen the development dimension in international investment agreements (iia) and to ensure a balance between the rights and obligations of states and investors.
- investment policy presents two main challenges for developing countries: at national level, this policy must be integrated into the development strategy, taking into account the sustainable development goals, while at international level, the development dimension in international investment agreements (iia) needs to be strengthened and a balance between the rights and obligations of states and investors ensured.
agreeing with the eu's call on other aid donors, partner country authorities and local and international private actors in developing countries to assess possible areas of cooperation for sustainable development, i voted in favour of the proposal to maximise the contribution of trade to the achievement of development goals.
the ecb has to start over from here: the commission's proposal is to put businesses, citizens and productive investment at the centre of its action in order to try to create a climate of confidence before it is too late.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new guidelines for the european year of the environment.
i hope that all the measures required will be effectively put in place in order to ensure the stability of the financial sector and to put in place decisive action on budgetary adjustment and structural reforms, which can support the competitiveness of the cypriot system, on the path of sustainable and stable growth in the long term.
rather than any discourse that might define the european union as simply an economic space of contestation between the strong and the weak, our citizens yearn for the language of solidarity, a commitment to cohesion, for a generous inclusive rhetoric that is appropriate to an evolving political union, a union anxious to reach a future of peace, prosperity, inclusion and inter-generational justice, in a sustainable way.
a first and urgent task must be to get europe back to sustainable and fulfilling employment and a return to real growth.
it can give a lead, for example, by speaking with a unified voice on climate change, recognising that those least contributing to our global problem are paying the highest price, even as i speak and we meet today.
will the union allow its current economic difficulties to undermine its commitment on the great global challenges of our day – hunger, poverty, human rights, climate justice?
(applause) the suggestion that citizens and their representatives are not fiscally or economically literate enough to carry the decision-making necessary for policies that impinge on their lives – be it unemployment, housing, health, education or the environment – has the most serious implications in legitimacy terms.
it is also a clear symptom that we are in a sick european union today, where the main institutions are even struggling to confront each other in a climate of mutual distrust and suspicion.
i am in favour of transparency at all times and at all levels, and i think it is time the council recognized that we have a firm position and that we can no longer accept that this ridiculous and shameful waste disposal is repeated every year.
- while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that acer - agency for the cooperation of energy regulators - should be given a discharge for the 2011 financial year.
− i agree with the analysis in mr gerbrandy's report and ask for the discharge to be deferred to the european environment agency for the 2011 financial year.
on the other hand, despite tight margins for manoeuvre, certain investments to strengthen the institutional role of parliament and to improve the sustainability of the budget in the long-term should be taken into consideration.
this will require a breakdown of waste and unnecessary consumption, also in view of croatia's accession to the european union, which will involve an expenditure of some eur 13 million.
it is recommended that, in view of the very austerity climate that european citizens are experiencing, parliament's investment projects be managed with caution.
- while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that clean sky - joint undertaking - aeronautics and environment should be given a discharge.
- i agree with the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report and i give the discharge to iter, the european joint undertaking for the iter project and the development of fusion energy.
− the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy (the 'joint undertaking') was established in march 2007 for a period of 35 years.
in this parliament, where human rights are discussed every 15 minutes, someone will now argue that gas and energy matter more than the lack of respect for human rights.
there is still much to be done in the fight against corruption and organised crime in kosovo, which pose a major threat and are facilitated by the climate of excessive impunity and political interference in the judicial system.
firstly, ms lövin and a number of others raised the question of the need for sustainable fish stocks.
you made clear that the arctic itself will need support in facing the tremendous environmental and economic challenges that have relevance not only for today’s but also for future generations.
the arctic states and the european union have a shared interest in ensuring that the arctic’s natural resources, both on land, at sea and on or below the seabed, are utilised in a sustainable manner that does not compromise the arctic environment, and benefits local communities.
i would also point out, in the experience of the initiators of the first initiatives, that there is a waste of money and additional costs of time which could be avoided.
− i voted in favour of this report because it is important to bear in mind that the financial and economic crisis has become intertwined with numerous other crises, such as the food, environmental and social crises.
finally, it is important to encourage foreign and domestic investors to stimulate strong corporate social responsibility policies in all countries, with an emphasis on sustainable development and good governance and with a clear focus on human rights, decent work, labour standards, freedom of association, collective bargaining and other social aspects.
- mr president, i voted against some of the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment, aimed at introducing a port tax on ship recycling.
- mr president, it is certainly right to support ship recycling that is as safe as possible and compatible with respect for the environment, and we must combat the increasingly widespread phenomenon of shipwrecks, which is mainly occurring in south asia, with india and bangladesh at the forefront.
fortunately, an amendment tabled by parliament's committee on the environment, aimed at establishing a recycling fund, was defeated by a handful of votes: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
− since 1998, the export of all hazardous waste from the eu to non-oecd countries has been prohibited, as enshrined in the 'ban amendment' which controls the transboundary movements of hazardous waste and its disposal; as a result, any ship carrying hazardous waste can only be disposed of in oecd countries, but this provision is often circumvented, and there are increasingly frequent cases of shipwrecks off the coast of south asia, with obvious consequences for the health of the coast but also for workers.
it is important to note the work of the eu delegation monitoring the situation of journalists and the reforms that turkey is undertaking in the area of freedom of expression and media; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the promotion of the environment through the development of a european strategy on the protection of the environment.
turkey is currently the sixth largest trading partner of the european union and has the potential to play a key role in diversifying energy resources and transit routes for oil, gas and electricity from countries neighbouring the european union; in the context of the creation of a sustainable low-carbon economy, however, there is potential for both turkey and the european union to benefit from turkey's abundant renewable energy resources.
further efforts are needed to adopt measures, in particular those essential to the judicial system, the fight against corruption, freedom of the media, the protection of all minorities, sustainable management of natural resources, structural economic reform and the improvement of the economic environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask the honourable member, who is also a member of the committee, what he thinks of a single european energy market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, renewable energy sources, together with energy efficiency measures and flexible and intelligent infrastructure, are the so-called 'no regrets' options identified by the commission.
in future they will represent an increasing share of the energy supply.
but unfortunately, pushing renewables without completing the single energy market, so as to ensure a fairer and more even distribution of energy sources, only increases costs.
the commission itself forecasts an increase in the energy bill for a typical household user of +16% by 2030. today an italian company pays 130% more for energy than a french company and 80% more than a german company.
without a single energy market, it becomes too expensive to promote renewable energy, except with very strong public incentives that are then paid for by citizens.
i believe that we must always pay attention to encouraging the development of renewable energy technologies.
the other way, which concerns us very closely, is efficiency and energy saving.
with these two possibilities we would achieve two results: the commission's proposal is to reduce our dependence on third countries - and thus our energy independence - and to try to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves.
i dream, commissioner, of an energy infrastructure leading to a true european network.
i dream of energy storage that is fed when it is needed and of timely adjustment to meet the real needs of consumers.
to achieve all this, we need sustainable projects, framed in the perspective of public-private partnership, to make the most of the limited financial resources that the cef currently offers us, through alternative financial instruments.
the next item is the report by ivo belet, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on safety of offshore oil and gas prospection, exploration and production activities (com(2011)0688 – c7-0392/2011 – 2011/0309(cod)) (a7-0121/2013).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the tragedy in the port of genoa, my city, where nine people died working at their desks in an environment which was supposed to ensure the safety of others, was not an accident.
i think, however, that the level of taxation must be sustainable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council meeting tomorrow will have on its agenda energy policy, fiscal policy, the fight against fraud, economic and monetary union, practically the whole european question.
energy is an example, and i would like to ask the commissioner, but above all the council: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
if this proposal were to pass, it would have distorted the market and pushed manufacturing firms and energy-intensive industries to third countries.
i also think it is useful that the agreement also provides for cooperation with the european aviation safety agency (aesa) on air traffic safety and environmental issues, as well as the establishment of a 'joint committee' responsible for the management and proper application of the agreement.
at the same time, however, it seems appropriate and necessary to require, in view of the specific characteristics of each region, also in the industrial sector, that the regions adopt an integrated approach to a very complex issue such as industrial conversion, which must involve economic, environmental, labour and social policies in the broadest sense.
the commission must ensure and facilitate the use of the cohesion fund, which can help to revive european smes and, through regional plans, to reconvert industrial areas where europe has been at the forefront, thereby encouraging the development of specific infrastructures affecting transport, energy and telecommunications.
increasing attention to and incentives for the development of renewable energy technologies has a twofold positive effect.
firstly, to reduce the dependence on third countries, which is proving to be increasingly burdensome from an economic and political point of view, and secondly, to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the protection of the environment.
this activity can only be of real benefit to our objectives if the total amount of energy used for cultivation does not exceed the amount saved.
often sites suitable for renewable energy production are located in marginal locations.
unless we ensure that there is a real european energy network, we will never be able to reap the benefits that renewable energy offers us.
- i voted in favour of this own-initiative report by parliament which deals with a subject of fundamental importance: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
these include the redevelopment of housing, the renewal of infrastructure, the development of sustainable forms of transport and new skills.
the report stresses that sustainable regeneration in formerly industrialised regions is very expensive.
strategies that will have to be environmentally sustainable, aiming at reducing carbon dioxide emissions and including measures to protect water, soil and air quality so that no harmful substances are released into the environment.
drilling is going deeper and deeper into dangerous waters where most of the oil fields are located, and only through reform involving both governments and industry will we be able to avoid environmental disasters such as those we often hear about in the newspapers or on television.
one of the main issues to be stressed is the importance of ensuring that the authorities responsible for assessing the safety and environmental risks of drilling operations are independent of the authorities responsible for authorizing drilling.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the adoption of this directive and the imposition of stricter limits on offshore oil exploration, as well as the provision of clear rules in terms of financial and economic liability for companies responsible for any damage to the environment.
the italian installations are certainly less dangerous in terms of size, landform and technical characteristics than those in the north sea or the baltic sea, but this should not lead us to let down our guard with regard to safety and environmental protection.
it is of paramount importance to avoid offshore drilling activities being carried out in the vicinity of tourist areas or where the effects on coastal communities and the marine environment would be devastating.
the need for european legislation to regulate the safety of this type of operation became clear following the deepwater horizon disaster in the gulf of mexico in 2010. i would like to reiterate my support for the principle: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
finally, the allocation of responsibilities and competences must be clear, so as to avoid duplication which only harms the environment and workers.
but as the report points out, the following are also essential: responsible licensing, the appointment of national safety authorities, the monitoring of drilling and clear environmental responsibility.
the italian offshore activities, which have been operating since the 1960s, have never had a major accident or significant damage to the environment.
an accident, wherever it occurs in europe, has economic and environmental consequences affecting the whole community.
recent major accidents have highlighted the limitations of offshore oil and gas installations, necessitating a safety response to ensure the protection of the eu marine environment in the event of major and potentially dangerous accidents.
the proposal to require operators more clearly to implement the financial guarantees necessary to cover the costs of cleaning and compensation in the event of major accidents is unquestionably in line with the european union's environmental principle that 'the polluter pays'.
we also believe that the provisions on public sector participation should be strengthened by introducing rules to ensure that the community is informed about major accidents and measures taken to limit environmental damage.
− we all remember the terrible disaster caused by the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico in april 2010, which killed 11 workers and spilled some 5 million barrels of crude oil into the sea: the environmental consequences have not yet been fully calculated, and we will probably be feeling them for a long time.
i regret, however, that this parliament has rejected an amendment to ensure greater protection for tourist areas and geologically unstable areas, where i believe offshore drilling should be banned: the environment must be respected as much as possible, especially where it requires special consideration.
no one wants to stop research and development of new energy sources, but we must always act with the utmost care so that the damage caused by fate or imperfection does not prove to be unsustainable in the long run, both for nature and for man.
− the environmental accident of the deepwater horizon oil platform, which resulted in the spill of 780,000 m3 of crude oil in the gulf of mexico in 2010, has drawn the union's attention to the need to review eu policies to ensure greater safety in this area.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely imperative to promote the development of renewable energy sources.
renewable energy, in addition to helping us fight climate change and strengthen europe's energy independence, offers clear environmental benefits, such as reducing air and waste pollution, increasing water protection and savings, and eliminating the risks associated with other forms of energy production.
we call on the commission to propose an ambitious and binding union-wide target for 2030 to achieve a renewable economy by 2050. this commitment will ensure continuity and stability for companies wishing to invest in this sector.
with the green technology market we are strengthening our industries for sustainable economic growth by creating, as the european commission has estimated, over three million jobs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, the european union today is very much dependent on energy imports and therefore the time has come to start really promoting the development of our industries and new job opportunities by focusing on the new generation energy market.
a secure, independent, diversified and low-emission energy supply throughout europe is certainly a goal and an opportunity to be realised; i am thinking in particular of small and medium-sized enterprises producing renewable energy on the energy market to promote the competitiveness of our industries and the creation of new green jobs.
finally, the large-scale deployment of renewable energy sources also represents an opportunity for individual households and communities to become energy producers.
experience has shown that to do this, binding long-term targets are needed, and it is therefore very important that, after this vote, the european commission sets a binding 2030 target for renewable energy in its new proposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the reference in the report we have adopted to the need for the european union to make a stronger and more binding commitment by 2030 to the share of renewable energy in the community's energy mix is undoubtedly making it stronger politically.
the diversification of the european energy mix is based on a wide range of renewable energy technologies, which can ensure greater independence of the union from energy imports, which are still too high today, and greater autonomy from conventional energy sources, as well as concrete support for industrial recovery, in particular of energy-intensive industries in crisis, such as those in italy, for example, which concern the region from which i come, sardinia.
secondly, greater diversification would ensure greater security of energy supply and greater environmental sustainability of energy production.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, renewable energy policy is of the utmost importance for the future of the european union.
another aspect is the lack of constant and precise verification and control of the locations of some of these alternative energy instruments.
we think about a lot of fields that should be agricultural and instead are used for solar panels, whereas instead all the roofs of buildings, factories, public facilities should have this system for creating energy.
another warning is that too often foodstuffs that are supposed to be food or otherwise intended for livestock farming may be unfairly used for renewable energy.
it's not renewable energy that destroys another heritage.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the binding targets set by the 2020 climate and energy package have given a strong impetus to the development of renewable energy and the green economy in europe, which holds the potential for growth and employment.
continuing to invest in renewables is not only useful but necessary to move towards a european economy that is fossil-free, based on sustainability and energy independence.
central to this design are the regional distribution networks needed to manage the integration of renewable energy production while maintaining security of supply.
in order to provide certainty to investors and the market, it is essential that the european commission presents as soon as possible a legislative proposal on the new climate package, setting out the new targets to be achieved by 2030.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the renewable energies must be given maximum attention because the debate on energy is central and vital.
the keywords must be: accessibility and sustainable prices.
but i would like to make a few observations: gas in europe is four times more expensive than in the united states, and energy is twice as expensive.
households spend between 7 and 17% on energy; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
if we want to keep european industries in europe, if we want european companies to stay in europe, we must have competitive energy solutions.
− this report is part of the european debate on the promotion of renewable energy after 2020. in general, i share the need expressed in this report to carefully assess the costs and benefits associated with the introduction of a binding european target for 2030. in the light of national and european experience on the implementation of directive 2009/28/ec, i do not think it is cost-effective and effective to set a binding european target for 2030, while i believe that an indicative european target could be useful to set the path for future guidance on this matter.
i believe that adequate support for research and development in this area is essential for the introduction of new renewable sources on the market, as is the strengthening of measures to facilitate the complicated process of building renewable energy production facilities.
as the rapporteur has pointed out, the extreme disparity in the incentive schemes for renewable sources implemented by the member states has led to serious distortions of the internal market.
- i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by mr herbert reul, together with my colleagues from the ppe group, because i am convinced that action is needed to progressively increase the share of renewable energy sources in the energy supply of the countries of the european union, thus helping to reduce the dependence of our territories on fossil fuels.
however, this will undoubtedly require the setting of sustainable targets and goals, including the redefinition of the eu roadmap to 2050. it should not be forgotten, among other things, that about half of europe's power stations will have to be replaced in the next decade and that the supply system will have to be made more modern and flexible in view of the increase in the share of renewable energy in the electricity, heating and transport sectors.
it is a challenge the eu must take up if we are to make a decisive contribution to tackling climate change and to strengthening our energy independence.
in addition, reducing the use of oil and its derivatives will undoubtedly bring benefits in terms of reducing air pollution, waste generation and water use for industrial purposes.
across the union, the strong potential for cost reduction through new technologies is already altering the landscape, evolving towards mixed systems, based on widespread production and environmental awareness, to the point where the major fossil fuel energy players are at an advanced stage in their diversification and conversion processes, with greater emphasis on control of networks and services.
this means that the rapporteur's recommendations, from targets above 30% of the mix, to the value of res for technological development, the growth of human capital, the diversification of energy sources, their potential for the single market, the importance of industrial and environmental policies, as well as the development of more environmentally sustainable lifestyles, are fully shared and justify my vote in favour.
− this proposal aims to highlight the benefits and advantages that member states and consumers can derive from renewable energy by implementing a series of changes that can ensure continued progress in the european internal energy market.
i agree with the desire to facilitate the entry of new players into the market in order to increase competition and thus lower energy prices for consumers.
the development of renewable energy is also important for the exploitation of biomass: waste represents a major opportunity for achieving the objectives of the european energy plan.
i agree that europe must make further efforts in research, development and industry to make progress in renewable energy technologies.
i agree with the call on the commission to help the member states to identify the most economically viable renewable energy sources in order to reduce costs and not hinder technological development.
− renewable energy sources will increasingly become the main source of energy supply for the eu in the future.
the commission must assess whether the use of renewable sources in the eu can ensure sufficient energy production and whether there are additional supply possibilities.
for example, in some member states the renewable energy generation network is not being fully exploited, consumers need to be empowered to save on their electricity bills, international cooperation needs to be increased and investment in innovation needs to be increased.
the report does not take account of the fact that the european renewable energy policy has proved to be a failure, and i therefore vote against.
− i appreciate the realistic approach that emerges from the report and that seems to point towards a change of course on the european strategy for the promotion of renewable energies.
from a strictly economic point of view, it should not be forgotten that incentive schemes for renewable energy have been one of the main factors in the increase in energy prices in europe.
i think it is therefore necessary to apply a criterion of economic and technical efficiency and to provide that the incentives for renewable sources for the period after 2020 are more market-oriented and limited in time.
finally, adequate support for research and development to enable 'technological leaps' is essential for the market uptake of new renewable sources, as is the harmonisation and strengthening of measures to facilitate the complex process of authorising and building renewable energy plants.
the market for renewable energy is a sector in strong growth with ample scope for development.
this means that in real and market terms, the eu will have important opportunities for new investment and job creation, while safeguarding the environment and the territory.
this is achieved by promoting renewable energy, investing more in research, making supply more competitive and providing the greatest possible protection for consumers.
i believe that by working on these basic points, the renewable energy market can be one of the economic levers on which to restart the competitiveness of the european system.
- today we were asked to comment on the so-called 'no regrets' options for renewable energy sources identified by the european commission.
together with energy efficiency measures and flexible and intelligent infrastructure, we are confident that these sources can represent an increasing share of europe's energy supply in the future.
we believe that renewable energy will help tackle climate change and strengthen europe's energy independence, as well as having a positive impact on the environment in terms of reducing pollution and waste generation.
we believe that it is essential to pursue this project and that it is necessary to emphasize the need for a cost-effective increase in the share of renewable energy sources, bearing in mind that they are an important growth engine for european competitiveness, as they offer enormous potential in terms of job creation and, moreover, make an important contribution to the development of new industries and export markets.
we also believe that it is necessary to identify infrastructure solutions other than those which exist and which are developed exclusively on the basis of conventional energy sources.
this is because we firmly believe that the greatest beneficiaries of the completion of the internal energy market will be consumers themselves.
- promoting the development of renewable energy sources must certainly be a primary objective for the european union, but this does not mean that heavy economic constraints should be imposed.
renewable energy is attractive to the market today thanks to large public incentives and subsidies, i.e.
thanks to a collective effort of taxpayers: i am not saying that this is wrong, especially if it can have positive repercussions in terms of energy saving and environmental protection.
however, a careful analysis of the cost-benefit ratio should be carried out in order to find the right balance, which is above all sustainable in the long term.
fortunately, an amendment to artificially and compulsorily increase the amount of renewables in the eu's energy mix by 2030 was rejected by this house today: i think that we cannot, in fact, place such a heavy bet on an area which has yet to be fully realised and in which continuous and thorough research is needed.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the current challenges and opportunities for renewable energy in the european internal energy market.
the share of renewable energy sources in the european energy mix is increasing.
they make a significant contribution to a secure, independent, diversified and low-emission energy supply in europe, a priority of european energy policy.
however, the potential of renewable energy sources in terms of energy supply is still not fully exploited and the eu still depends on energy imports for more than half of its final energy consumption.
it is therefore necessary to set targets and targets for 2050 to ensure a credible and sustainable future for renewable energy in the eu.
- i gave a favourable opinion on the report which facilitates the promotion of renewable resources in europe for the production and use of clean energy.
after this vote, it will be up to europe to do more to facilitate sustainable public and private investment in energy infrastructure and i hope for increased investment in renewable and clean energy, while avoiding incentives for the creation of large wind farms and huge expanses of solar panels that have already ruined our landscapes and taken acres from our crops.
i hope that we can find a way of reconciling our agriculture with clean energy production facilities and at the same time encourage the energy self-sufficiency of small and mediumsized farms.
we have a task to diversify the union's sources of supply by 2020 using clean energy sources.
overall, these measures approved by the european parliament will boost the competitiveness of european businesses by ensuring lower energy tariffs for businesses and consumers.
- mr reul's report seems to be aiming at a change of course on the european strategy for the promotion of renewable energies.
the latter not only help to tackle climate change and strengthen europe's energy independence, but also offer major additional environmental benefits in terms of reducing air pollution, waste generation and water use.
this requires greater investment in research and development in this area and the provision of infrastructure to ensure the progressive integration of renewable energy sources into the european energy system.
an autonomous and strong public sphere, based on independent and plural media, constitutes the essential environment for the freedoms of civil society.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on an agenda for adequate, secure and sustainable pensions because i believe that we need to close the gender gap and combat gender discrimination and thus promote a better work-life balance, especially for women.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, how can we think of adequate, secure and sustainable pensions for women when the pay gap between men and women is almost 17%?
in many member states, reforms aimed at pension sustainability have already been initiated, but more needs to be done to address the effects of population ageing.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on adequate, sustainable and secure pensions, together with my colleagues from the ppe group, because i believe that it is precisely in this situation of stagnation of the euro area economies, such as italy's, that measures are necessary to ensure the efficiency of the pension system.
this requires a european agenda on pensions, leading to a series of reforms: the responsibility and competence of individual member states must remain unchanged, but it is possible to agree on shared systems which are adequate and sustainable and which help to strengthen free movement in the labour market.
we need to build systems that are adequate, safe and sustainable, but also help to strengthen mobility and free movement in the labour market, and provide solutions for the present and the future.
it follows, therefore, that without adequate coordination at european level, the sustainability of public pension schemes could be seriously called into question.
as is well known, the provision of pensions is a matter for the member states, but in a time of crisis such as the present one, i believe that priority should be given to the long-term stability and sustainability of national pension systems.
the current pension system must therefore be adapted to the expectations of a sustainable welfare system and a labour market that has seen its rules and dimensions change.
- we voted in favour of the report on a european agenda for adequate, secure and sustainable pensions for both young and old.
in practical terms, while recognising the absolute control of the member states and the social partners in this context, it is necessary to build adequate and sustainable systems that help to strengthen mobility and free movement in the labour market, with the ultimate aim of providing solutions for the future.
many member states have already implemented reforms aimed at pension sustainability, but new solutions are needed to address the problem of an ageing population.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on an agenda for adequate, sustainable and secure pensions.
the european agenda on adequate, secure and sustainable pensions is a necessary tool to initiate a discussion and subsequently launch reforms aimed at the establishment of secure pension systems that also contribute to strengthening mobility and free movement in the labour market.
i voted in favour of the proposal, agreeing that we must build systems which are adequate, safe and sustainable, but which also help to strengthen mobility and free movement in the labour market, and which provide solutions for the present and the future.
- today, one third of the population of the european union is over 55. the sustainability of pension schemes is threatened by ageing populations and public finance difficulties.
i voted in favour of the report because europe, while recognising the responsibilities of the member states in this area, will have to try to build systems that provide guarantees, reinforcing the sustainability of pension costs through reforms that set common guidelines, favouring solutions for both the present and the future.
so in answer to ms mazzoni – whose energy i admire for pushing the agenda and asking the question: ‘do we really have a common area?’ – i would say that perhaps we have not reached the level we would like to attain, but i think great strides forward have been made and in a very concrete way.
- the sums lost each year in tax evasion and fraud are staggering and no longer sustainable.
it is a step of great importance, firstly, for european women: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
i was there together with the un agencies to work out programmes so that those arriving with small children could put them into school – ensuring capacity so that those children are not subjected to continuing tremendous psychological pressures throughout the day; so that there is an institution taking care of them for at least part of the day while their parents devote their energy and time to more pressing issues.
it is a tremendous opportunity for all of us to foster sustainable economic growth and perhaps even employment in europe.
however, much has been done: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the transparency of the financial transactions between government and industry for the exploitation of forests, another to improve industrial transparency on environmental and social behaviour, and the publication of guidelines for corporate and social responsibility in the oil and gas sectors.
increasingly, our young people are being asked to stay in the mountains, to take care of the environment and the forests, to practice agriculture which is difficult and expensive, to endure long and arduous transport and additional costs for businesses.
but it is also a question of protecting the environment, of protecting people from natural disasters and the forces of nature, which are more pronounced in the mountains than in the plains.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after years, or rather decades, of cooperation between the various regions and territories, with all the living things in the regions of the alps, we are now faced with the opportunity to take a step forward and thus to give a concrete start to a new strategy for this mountain area, which is certainly made up of constraints, sometimes of limitations, but it is made up of great environmental specificities to be safeguarded and of great economic potential to be developed.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that if we are to draw up a strategy for the alpine macro-region, we must do something that is useful to the territories and specific features of the mountains, to the economy, the environment, tourism, transport and energy.
monitoring and measures to combat climate change only make sense if they are common.
the european alpine strategy is the beginning of a more ambitious response to give a political vision to the alpine arc and to set an example for other mountain regions, starting with some essential points, such as the integrated and cross-border use of european funds, the harmonization of some common services for the alpine populations, the possibilities of having direct benefits for the exploitation of energy sources for the benefit of the populations.
it could be a stimulus for the alpine strategy: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used consistently, that the environment is sustainable, that a code is adopted for the protection of the architectural heritage of the alps, which is in danger of disappearing, and that the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy are integrated, in which the mountains have much to offer.
it is an alpine arc, it must remain an alpine arc with its environmental, cultural and economic integrity, and i believe that we will have no problem in sharing our efforts in this respect.
the categorical imperative of this phase of the crisis is to optimise, to invest - and well - to create efficiency, to eliminate pockets of dispersion and waste, and i believe that macro-regional strategies are an excellent answer to this indication of the way forward, because the macro-regional strategy is nothing more than a management model, nothing more than an indication of political design.
− in order to promote a dynamic environment in terms of competitiveness and growth while ensuring a uniform level of control of goods, it is necessary to adopt modern and simple customs rules, based on systems that are up to date, where controls are finally harmonised.
− the eu is party to an agreement providing for the possibility of resolving investor-state disputes of a financial nature (see, for example, the energy charter treaty).
the work done to improve the transport, energy and telecommunications networks, which are crucial for eventual eu membership, deserves praise.
it is good to use the framework of the european union to bring the presidents of the alpine regions, whether french, italian, austrian or slovenian, together to deal with the environmental and economic problems of this fantastic ecosystem.
these regions are often faced with a number of challenges due to their particular geographical context, such as the increasing pressure on small and isolated urban areas, environmental problems also due to climate change and demographic and economic polarisation.
considering that the alps are a mountain range of european and international interest, with natural areas affected by climate change, it would be useful to promote this strategy in order to encourage greater cooperation, exploiting the existing networks between the various adjacent states, aiming to solve existing problems and promoting development through a better and shared use of available resources.
i believe that this strategy can contribute to the implementation of concrete joint projects aimed, also through the european regional development fund (erdf), at promoting a policy of socioeconomic cohesion, eliminating imbalances between the different areas of the macro-region and defending the challenges of environmental protection.
the european market is the largest export destination for bangladeshi apparel and textile products and for this reason the commission should actively promote mandatory responsible business conduct among eu companies operating abroad, with a special focus on ensuring strict compliance with all their legal obligations, in particular international standards and rules in the areas of human rights, labour and the environment.
then there is the establishment of a european public prosecutor, which has been mentioned on more than one occasion, the ineligibility in the european parliament of persons convicted of crimes relating to corruption, organised crime and money laundering, and also strict rules against environmental crimes, and the demand for specific legislation to protect witnesses and victims of trafficking.
this mechanism, if properly activated and supported, is the only one capable of enabling sustainable growth in society.
the fao says that food waste in italy is equivalent to the food consumed in spain in a year, so it's probably a culture problem, not just a money problem.
we wanted to streamline the distribution of this food, to strengthen cooperation with ngos - and there are many in this field - and to extend measures to reduce waste and strengthen networks and networks for the distribution of affordable food, but also to allow greater autonomy for families rather than total dependence.
i believe that the principles set out here help to improve the prospects in this area and to fill the gaps in the previous plan of 2004. in particular, i agree with the sustainable exploitation of cod resources and the inclusion of maximum levels to be decided by the member states in relation to the management of fishing effort by vessels.
- i voted in favour of this resolution, the main purpose of which is to confirm a long-term plan for the conservation of cod stocks, ensuring their sustainable exploitation in the geographical areas of the kattegat, the north sea, the waters of western scotland and the irish sea, in accordance with the maximum sustainable yield.
- i voted in favour of this resolution, following the instructions of the epp group to which i belong, because i agree that ensuring food, health, energy, financial and digital products must be the top priority on the european consumer agenda.
− the new agenda for european consumer policy aims to create sustainable consumption and to increase growth and consumer confidence.
we consider it a top priority to ensure food, health, energy, financial and digital product safety and to make information more transparent, efficient and reliable for consumers.
it is therefore necessary that elements such as social and environmental sustainability, food and product safety, with particular attention to the relationship between markets and minors, be taken into account in the construction of a new consumer agenda.
in addition, the telecommunications market in the european union will have to be able to provide consumers with a secure digital environment while respecting the protection of all personal data.
- i am in favour of the text of the report as ensuring food safety, health, energy, financial and digital products must be the top priority on the european consumer agenda.
this agenda is necessary to reduce disparities between consumers in europe and contribute to a low-carbon economy.
we will have to promote local food production by giving farmers aid to increase the production of agricultural products in view of the growing demand for food and by encouraging short circuits which would lead to a reduction in transport and therefore co2 emissions.
intellectual property rights are a key element of the europe 2020 strategy to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
patients with multiple sensitivities are vulnerable to environmental pollution and patients with electromagnetic hypersensitivity (ehs) to electromagnetic radiation.
the european environment and health plan 2004-2010 (2007/2252 ((ini)) provided for greater protection of environments such as schools, nurseries, care homes and health institutions: the limit values for exposure to electromagnetic fields in italy today are 6 volts/metre for high frequencies and 10 and 3 microtesla for lower frequencies, and recent studies show that values of 0.4 for low and 0.2 for high are already very dangerous.
it is desirable that the council should decide annually on the allowable catches for cod stocks in the areas concerned, ensuring maximum sustainable yield and the fishing mortality rate should be reduced over time to minimum levels.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
this is particularly the case with the euro plus pact, which is intended to strengthen the economic and budgetary governance of the union and which also includes investment in social housing; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
i believe that more decisive european action can bring a number of benefits, such as fighting property speculation and re-valuing buildings to meet higher energy efficiency requirements.
on the economic side, investing in social housing also means helping the construction sector, which has been badly hit by the crisis, and the restructuring sector, particularly in the renewal of heating systems and renewable energy, which are high-yielding sectors and a breeding ground for jobs.
the rapporteur then includes in her strategy for social housing a series of objectives linked to energy efficiency.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
europe, through the allocation of structural funds, should seek to stimulate investment in order to ensure greater accessibility to housing and to encourage the recovery of the construction and renovation sector, thus creating employment, avoiding dilapidated housing and aiming at the renewal of facilities in order to reduce energy waste, reducing consumption for households and environmental pollution.
the emphasis is also on ensuring safe working conditions and gender rights during mobility phases, and offering suitable services to women who often follow their husbands or partners to another member state, such as vocational courses, language courses and courses to facilitate integration into their new social and cultural environment, ensuring attention to the situation of women with disabilities and vulnerable groups, promoting entrepreneurship and offering clear rules to women to facilitate their access to company management.
− the electronic toll service facilitates the movement of vehicles for the transport of goods and people, reducing congestion on european roads and improving the impact on the environment.
− madam president, the eu’s overriding priority is to foster a sustainable and a job-rich economic recovery and that is our common objective.
in drawing up our priorities, we sought to balance the necessity to respond to urgent new needs that became apparent as a result of the crisis and the ongoing need to work on structural issues – which policy-makers need to address by looking beyond the immediate – to help shape the choices that can deliver a sustainable recovery leading to growth and to higher levels of employment, which we all hope for.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote is an opportunity to remind you that the double-headquarters is a waste of at least 180 million euros a year.
household portfolios are getting smaller, with purchasing power down by 1.9 percent compared to 2012. the transfer to strasbourg once a month for the plenary session is a symbol of the waste of money in the eyes of our citizens.
the aim was to eliminate the mini-budgets in brussels, to force us to come to alsace more often, and thus increase an incredible waste, estimated at some 200 million euros a year.
- i voted in favour of the romeva i rueda report on combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, which is a scourge for the operators in the sector and for the environment.
- recognising that illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is one of the most serious threats to marine biodiversity and can cause food security problems in many coastal and developing countries, and agreeing with the rapporteur on the need to combat illegal fishing, i voted in favour of the proposal.
i believe that more monitoring of ships at sea, including transhipment operations, is important to ensure a higher level of community alert and i am in favour of the commission's proposals, but i also believe that greater austerity in the controls to draw up lists of non-cooperating countries and greater effectiveness in the application of the appropriate sanctions aimed at safeguarding the biodiversity of the marine system are essential.
- illegal fishing may be economically attractive: in fact, fish caught in disregard of environmental, social and other standards can normally be sold by fishermen at a lower price.
the european union's illegal fishing regulation is therefore only useful if it is fully applied: this is why action is needed to prevent the rules from being circumvented or cheated and to put an end to one of the most serious threats to marine biodiversity, which can cause food security problems in many coastal and developing countries.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in the event of a serious threat, internal border control may last for a maximum of 30 days, renewable once for a further 30 days.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment.
moreover, investing in this sector also means believing in those social enterprises which represent 10% of european enterprises, which employ some 11 million people and which should be supported by appropriate forms of financing, by improving the legal and fiscal environment and by adopting a european social etiquette.
− smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
i would like to stress a key point in this report, namely that the granting of state aid should be determined not only by the size of the firm or the sector in which it operates, but also by the estimate of the number of jobs that could be created and maintained by the granting of the incentives, the quality and sustainability of the jobs and projects concerned and the long-term effects on the development of the region, including social aspects.
competition must be ensured in the food, energy, media, tourism, payments and transport sectors.
we encourage free markets because we believe they are necessary to achieve the europe 2020 goals for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in turkey, the environmental protest has been joined by political protests against the erdogan government, which is gradually becoming less secular and more fundamentalist, as its recent decisions show.
information is a sacred right which serves to improve the civil environment in which we carry out our activities.
we are also aware that we need to base our relationship with cameroon on a long-term vision, with the partnership continuing to develop and grow, offering a sustainable path to development based on full implementation of human rights needs.
we fight for food, water, energy, but if we do not make a transparent, clear and fair framework of rules against land grabbing, we will fight in vain.
secondly, wealth must be created with respect for the environment and for the universal rights of people, not at any cost and regardless of the conditions of those who have an active role in doing this.
i believe it is important that the new text introduces, as the main objectives of the partnership, the need to achieve the millennium development goals, to achieve aid effectiveness and to combat climate change and that it promotes common approaches to cooperation to address the main challenges for achieving the mdgs (such as food security) and their importance for sustainable development, growth and poverty reduction.
the cotonou agreement, signed in 2000, provides for the possibility of reassessment every five years in the light of developments in the political, economic and social environment.
the review of the acp-eu partnership agreement provides for initiatives to strengthen mutual cooperation between acp countries in promoting sustainable development.
the union plays a decisive role in promoting the right to freedom of expression and information in order to improve the civil environment and ensure social development.
what could have seemed like an environmental rally turned out to be the beginning of a clash that makes evident the state of strong and widespread malaise throughout the country, where the awakening of a population aware of their rights and refractory to authoritarian rulers is putting erdogan's leadership, which has lasted for almost 11 years, to a severe test.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the proposal seeks to promote a transatlantic relationship between the european union and the united states and sees among its key aspects the need to organise as soon as possible a summit and a serious debate on the use of drones, and then the issue of the creation of the transatlantic political council for systematic consultations, the implementation of the promise to close guantanamo, reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and the freezing of new construction in israel.
the eu should not miss the chance to talk as one strong voice during the discussion on the post-2015 situation and up until the un summit, presenting a comprehensive framework, with clear benchmarks incorporating the key development and sustainability issues.
we will have to put in place new projects to try to reduce poverty, thinking of effective strategies that promote sustainable development and i am convinced that europe can make an important contribution in the forecast of a new general framework.
we will have to seek to raise the level of education which would promote greater employment opportunities, ensure greater health security through disease prevention actions, implement coordinated strategies by health and environmental protection institutions and ensure greater coordination between associations providing aid to the population.
the aim of the proposal is to improve road safety, which is a tragic issue for all the countless deaths and for people who are injured for their whole lives, for environmental aspects - let us not forget how many diseases arise from insufficiently controlled emissions, as a result of poor maintenance of vehicles - and, last but not least, the fight against fraud.
the first problem for sustainable and balanced growth is to generate integration between coast and inland.
i just wanted to make a small note for greater caution regarding aquaculture which is obviously called sustainable.
as is well known, the introduction of certain types of feed and antibiotics into aquaculture causes pollution effects on the ecosystem which, in the most serious cases, can lead to eutrophication of water caused by the use of products containing nitrogen and phosphorus.
cooperatives are enterprises which do not primarily pursue profit but want to promote work, welfare and consumption through balanced economic management and contribute to local development, including through good business projects such as in the energy field.
cooperatives are often also closely linked to local development and production and often manage essential services for citizens, playing an important role in sustainable and inclusive development, aimed at enhancing local production, cultures of belonging and human values in a time of sometimes unbridled globalisation.
the key goal of the commission’s policy is to create a stable legal and administrative environment at european level but also in every member state.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in february 2012 the european commission presented its communication on a bioeconomy for europe, where it proposed to move towards a greater and more sustainable use of renewable resources and called for a shift from a fossil-based society to a bio-based society, with the support of research and innovation.
to enable this potential to be fully realised, it is necessary to develop an all-encompassing approach and to look at the bioeconomy model as the synthesis in which the synergistic encounter between european policies for agriculture, industry and the environment, research and innovation and between the different decision-making levels from the community to the regional and local is achieved in such a way as to create a harmonious and coordinated environment in which a continuous exchange of knowledge, skills, information and know-how is possible.
in this context, new forms of partnership involving public and private entities can also make a strong contribution to economic recovery and sustainable development, especially in the current crisis context.
the bioeconomy model developed within this strategy - i am sure - will not only solve the chronic contingencies, but in the longer term it will be able to bring about more sustainable and efficient production, consumption, development and lifestyles, reactivating the european growth process.
i would particularly like to stress the strong emphasis in the report on the importance of the regional and local dimension of the bioeconomy as a means of ensuring sustainable, respectful and inclusive development of local realities and as a means of ensuring in particular the quality and safety of the food chain, with particular reference to valorisation.
− this convention includes a commitment to apply the basic safety principles for nuclear installations and to define detailed rules which are updated periodically in order to better protect human health and the environment in which we live.
- ladies and gentlemen, the vienna convention was adopted with the aim of ensuring adequate and fair compensation for victims of damage caused by nuclear accidents by establishing a special civil liability regime in the nuclear energy sector.
- liability in nuclear matters is regulated at international level by two instruments: the vienna convention and the 1960 paris convention on civil liability in the field of nuclear energy.
the vienna convention was adopted with the aim of ensuring adequate and fair compensation for victims of damage caused by nuclear accidents by establishing a special civil liability regime in the field of nuclear energy.
particular attention should be paid to labour and environmental standards, passenger rights and compliance with european regulations.
finally, despite the need for liberalisation, we firmly believe that the eu must continue to defend european interests and standards, in particular those relating to labour and the environment, passenger rights and compliance with european regulations.
- ladies and gentlemen, foundations play a major role in the european union, as they play a crucial role in education, research, social services, health, environmental protection, talent promotion, youth and sport, art and culture.
i agree with the rapporteur on the importance of the duration and sustainability of the european foundation, and i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
export credit is an important tool available to member states to improve the commercial and entrepreneurial opportunities of european enterprises; it is therefore necessary to regulate this instrument in a manner consistent with the new oecd agreements but also in accordance with the principles guiding eu external action, including the treatment of environmental risks and the fight against climate change, which appear to have a particular impact on export credits.
this statute would benefit a number of actors such as member states, donors, the foundations themselves and citizens and would make it easier to free up resources for education, social services and the environment.
most of the fields they deal with do not know borders: i think about health research or climate change.
we are aware that foundations play a major role in the european union, operating in such crucial areas as education, health, environmental protection, art, culture, sport and research.
finally, we are confident that the introduction of the statute will bring many benefits to all those concerned, citizens, donors, foundations and member states, especially by removing the costly obstacles to cross-border activity; we therefore urge all eu countries to implement the statute of the european foundation in a timely manner and to strengthen its credibility and trust through full sustainability and effective supervision.
- ladies and gentlemen, foundations play a major role in the european union, as they play a crucial role in education, research, social services, health, environmental protection, talent promotion, youth and sport, art and culture.
i agree with the rapporteur on the importance of the duration and sustainability of the european foundation, and i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
the safety of shipping and seafarers is very important, and its absence would have catastrophic consequences for workers, the environment and commerce.
we are insisting, first of all, that non-compliant ships are unacceptable as far as the rights of workers and the safety of ships, the protection and safety of the environment are concerned.
the proposal for a directive takes up proposals inspired by the maritime labour convention (mlc) adopted in 2006. the proposal also makes it possible to establish the necessary regulations to identify and remove from european coasts ships which do not comply with the basic rules of good maintenance and safety for seafarers but also do not take into account the possible damage to our environment and to our coasts.
in addition to appropriate legislation at community level, member states should undertake to monitor a system of control of the compliance of ships with safety standards, in order to ensure respect for the rights of workers on board and the protection of the natural environment.
the aim of the 'technical inspection package' contained in the european commission's proposal is to support and enforce the technical inspection rules for motor vehicles with a view to improving road safety and environmental protection.
- today, in plenary session in strasbourg, we approved the 'check-in package' proposed to support and enforce the rules on the check-in of motor vehicles, with a view to improving road safety and environmental protection.
− in 2012, the commission presented a proposal on the 'technical inspection package' consisting of three legislative proposals aimed at strengthening road safety, environmental protection and fair competition by updating the current requirements for periodic technical inspections of commercial vehicles in the union.
− the commission has recently presented new rules on periodic roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles, with the aim of further improving road safety and ensuring a high level of environmental protection.
technical checks must ensure satisfactory safety and environmental protection conditions during the use of vehicles.
a public opinion that understands that water pollution is harmful to public health, harmful to the environment, harmful to people and therefore supports measures, even costly ones, to correct this reality.
the march 2012 eurobarometer survey clearly showed the position of the european public, which is very concerned about water quality and the dangers of chemical pollution.
it is a fact that chemical pollution is one of the causes of the increasing pressure on the aquatic environment and on the availability and quality of safe and clean water for our society.
it was therefore important to implement appropriate measures to combat this phenomenon, to implement sustainable water management and to give a clear and rapid response to citizens' concerns.
- recent surveys show that chemical pollution is one of the causes of the increasing pressure on the aquatic environment and on the availability and quality of clean water for our society.
therefore, the application of appropriate measures to control chemical pollution of water is a central aspect of sustainable water management.
the commission proposal amends the environmental quality standards directive to update the list of priority substances in the field of water policy.
it analyses the amendments to the water framework directive and the environmental quality standards directive to update the list of chemicals presenting a risk to the aquatic environment at community level.
− the protection of the environment and community waters is a key objective for the european union.
an effective water policy requires the definition of clear anti-pollution strategies.
− chemical pollution is one of the causes of the increasing pressure on the aquatic environment and on the availability and quality of safe and clean water for our society.
we are meeting today to approve new measures to control chemical pollution of water, which is a central aspect of sustainable environmental management.
finally, it should be noted that chemical pollution of water is one of the main environmental concerns of the citizens of the european union, and therefore environmental protection measures are in the collective interest of the community.
we therefore propose to raise public awareness through information and communication actions on the results and impact of measures against surface water pollution by creating a website providing access to the river basin management plans established by the member states.
the prevention of water pollution is certainly one of the main challenges that still await us, since there are still too many such phenomena throughout europe.
this is the dynamic that the european union must follow, to continuously improve the health of european citizens while preserving the environment.
- i supported the introduction of 12 new substances, three of which are derived from common medicines, to the priority list of substances which pose a risk to water pollution.
- a motion for a resolution was voted in parliament today on the alarming issue of water pollution.
i am therefore very pleased with what has been decided today in strasbourg and i hope that our waters will become increasingly safer and that environmental quality standards (eqs) will be better respected.
- chemical pollution of water is now a major problem.
the role of public opinion is of great importance: the commission has also proposed that the member states should take measures to ensure that the quality of water is not affected by pollution.
even before the innovative tools of scientific research, education on the sustainable use of water is essential.
maritime and coastal activities, together with the use of marine resources, must become the driving force for the expansion of sustainable development models that allow europe to unlock the growth potential of the blue economy while ensuring the protection of biodiversity and the environment.
− the commission's blue growth initiative brings together innovative proposals to seize the opportunities for sustainable growth and employment offered by the marine and maritime sector.
the first is the need to ensure that the workforce has the skills needed for emerging maritime sectors, so that blue growth is synonymous with strong employment growth; the second is to ensure the integrated sustainability of blue growth, which is not damaging the fragile marine environment.
− i am voting in favour of this report, as i agree with the definition of the maritime dimension of the europe 2020 strategy, which provides a clear indication of the potential of the maritime economy in terms of creating smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and promoting employment opportunities.
- i did not support the danellis report on 'blue growth: improving sustainable growth in the eu's maritime, shipping and tourism sectors' in my vote, as it does not take into account the causes of the collapse of the european maritime sector, which is directly attributable to the financial crisis and the lack of adequate protection of the eu and member states for maritime businesses.
it also expresses an unjustified and arbitrary confidence in the potential of wind, tidal and wave energy to revive the maritime sector and increase employment and investment.
- i voted in favour of the report by mr danellis on sustainable growth in the maritime, shipping and tourism sectors because i share the commitment to develop and fully realise the potential it offers to contribute to the european economy.
in this context, the blue growth strategy aims to support the development of synergies and coordinated policies with a particular focus on blue energy, aquaculture, maritime and coastal tourism, marine mineral extraction and blue biotechnology.
technological progress and the search for new sources of sustainable development, in addition to fostering the growth of the maritime economy, also aim to create new jobs in the maritime sectors.
i therefore believe that special attention should be paid to this issue in order to ensure not only economic and social sustainability but above all high environmental standards, and in particular the protection of biodiversity, in order to ensure the effectiveness and sustainability of growth and a blue economy.
in addition, it is essential to ensure the integrated sustainability of 'blue growth', so that it does not harm the fragile marine environment and makes a significant contribution to the fight against climate change.
europe is interested in giving priority to this sector and maximising the benefits it can bring: the commission's blue growth initiative aims to promote employment by training qualified personnel, alongside sustainable management of marine and coastal resources.
the protection of the environment remains a priority.
this is because in trying to get out of the crisis, cooperatives can make a considerable and important contribution in economic, social, employment and sustainable development terms.
i believe that a bioeconomy in europe can contribute to the competitiveness of european industry and provide employment and business opportunities, particularly for rural and coastal development, provided that its activities are carried out within the parameters of resource efficiency and sustainability.
i welcome the ongoing review of union biofuels legislation to mitigate the negative effects of indirect land-use change (iluc) and to promote the market and development of more advanced biofuels that allow for greater use of non-food raw materials such as waste, residues and cellulosic and wood-cellulosic materials.
it represents an opportunity to address globally interconnected societal challenges such as food security, scarcity of natural resources, dependence on fossil resources and climate change, while ensuring sustainable economic growth.
the continuing increase in the world's population, the growth in demand for food and energy and the scarcity of the world's natural resources require europe to reflect on the new approach to be taken in terms of production and consumption in order to meet these new needs in an efficient and sustainable way.
in my view, europe must play a leading role in supporting this specific sector and in order to facilitate the achievement of this objective, the basis for a clear and stable regulatory environment needs to be created.
cooperatives play a very important role in the eu in terms of economic, social, employment and sustainable development and contribute to the achievement of the objective of sustainable economic and social development of regional and local communities.
the gradual increase in the world's population, the rapid growth in demand for food and energy and the scarcity of natural resources require us to reflect on the new approach to be taken in terms of production and consumption.
we therefore urge the member states to make efforts in this direction, so as to put in place more sustainable and efficient models of production, consumption, development and lifestyles and, consequently, to reactivate the process of european growth and reindustrialisation.
− there is no doubt that talking about the bioeconomy is useful in raising awareness among citizens and administrators alike to be careful not to waste non-renewable resources.
efforts must be made to avoid unnecessary waste or excessive extraction from the environment without guaranteeing the possibility of a turnover of resources in order not to endanger future generations.
it is therefore important not only to avoid waste, but also to consume better and to exploit new sources of supply through research and innovation.
creating a single european energy market would greatly reduce the waste of renewables in the solar, wind and photovoltaic sectors, ensuring energy at competitive costs.
first, we should improve coordination between the different european policies (including industrial, agricultural and energy policy) and achieve an integrated approach by developing synergies between community, regional and local strategies.
this economic model will give us greater sustainability and efficiency than the current economic model.
- i voted in favour of the report on innovation for sustainable growth using the bioeconomy tool to lead europe in this direction.
while economic growth is a strong demand, it is also essential to safeguard biodiversity and ecosystems so that economic viability does not mean the loss and degradation of resources, and such a policy would certainly help make european industry more competitive on an international scale.
as regards biomass production, it would be desirable to exploit the biodiversity available in many european regions, rather than resorting to imports.
in addition, it would be desirable to promote a sustainable lifestyle by informing consumers of the benefits that would result.
− the bioeconomy is a key element in meeting the major energy, demographic, food and social challenges facing the european union.
while this is the answer to fossil fuel dependency, it can also mean a more sustainable and efficient use of resources in the long term, with a reduced environmental impact.
for these reasons, the eu must work to become a dynamic international research and innovation centre in the field of bioeconomy research: the development of biodiversity is an essential factor in achieving the millennium development goals and can also be an important factor in relaunching the european growth process.
we are therefore facing a climate change which also requires a review of the criteria for prevention and protection.
in order to promote a more effective fight against fraud, sustainable tax regimes must be applied so that tax evasion is not physiological for people's survival.
we have made our case by getting an advance on the funds for the youth guarantee programme and i believe that we must make the programme effective and sustainable.
europe's objective is to work towards removing technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles, while ensuring that these vehicles provide a high level of safety and environmental protection.
- having regard to the proposal to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties to the revised 1958 agreement and to ensure that such vehicles offer a high level of safety and environmental protection, and agreeing with the rapporteur on the points discussed, i voted in favour of the proposal.
furthermore, encouraging the union's participation in the work of the unece would also mean giving it a significant role in areas such as safety and the environment, which are closely linked to the circulation of motor vehicles and are widely considered by the unece.
the primary objective of ensuring that vehicles offer a high level of safety and environmental protection is to: this would help to develop the theme of health and safety culture as a field of competence not only in technical and professional terms but also and above all in social, behavioural and active citizenship terms.
the price of carbon, going from 30 euros per tonne of co2 to about 7 euros per tonne of co2, is no longer sustainable for the trading system.
we must unfortunately note that the whole system cannot function under such conditions and that it simply no longer provides sufficient incentives for sustainable scientific and technological innovation and new investment in low-carbon technologies.
− the european commission's proposal (backloading proposal) amending directive 2003/87/ec is aimed at clarifying the provisions on the timing of greenhouse gas emission allowance auctions.
i would like to reiterate my opposition to the backloading measure for the temporary withdrawal of carbon dioxide emission allowances as proposed by the commission.
the emissions trading scheme is working as a tool to reduce emissions in the most cost-effective way for industry: european industry will reduce its emissions by 21% by 2020, as set out by the european legislator.
the low price of carbon dioxide is the consequence of a prolonged economic crisis, which has led to a collapse in industrial production in europe.
therefore, backloading would have the effect of increasing the cost of energy in a period of contraction of the european economy and would not solve the structural deficiencies of the ets.
i believe that the most appropriate way of restoring investor confidence is to define a regulatory framework by 2030 which, while respecting environmental commitments, ensures the competitiveness of european industries.
- i voted against the report by mr groote on the review of greenhouse gas auctions because i believe that the market should not be disturbed by such an invasive intervention.
− to finance climate policy, the commission argues that the market is not functioning properly and that, to correct this malfunction, the exchange prices for emission allowances for the years 2013-2015 should be raised with a carry-over to the two-year period 2018-2020 ('backloading').
since backloading is a form of hidden taxation on industry, since the fall in demand is caused primarily by the recession and since the eu energy package is proving to be a failure, i am voting against.
there is no environmental motivation, because the targets for reducing emissions, precisely because of the crisis, will be reached.
- today, at the strasbourg plenary session, we welcomed the proposal to amend the directive on the timing of greenhouse gas auctions.
we agree with mr groote, the rapporteur, that the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) is a key instrument for reducing industrial emissions, with cost efficiency as the main objective.
− considering that the european union emissions trading system (eu ets) is a key instrument of the new european policy, i thought it appropriate not to support the rapporteur's work.
today more than ever energy-intensive industries tend to relocate where costs and constraints are lower.
− the 10% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions over the 2008/2012 period is not entirely attributable to the eu emissions trading system (eu/ets) set up by the eu to reduce emissions because it is affected by the sharp decline in industrial production.
the decline has led to a decline in the price of carbon allowances and has helped create a build-up of surplus allowances as well as imbalances that limit companies' investments in low-emission technologies.
the eu has always been the strongest supporter of measures to reduce emissions.
it would be desirable for the eu/ets system to adopt more harmonised rules on monitoring and verification of emissions in order to enhance its reliability and credibility, and i believe that it is necessary to exclude small installations with low emissions.
to foster sustainable development, more action will be needed, including and especially by emerging economies.
i agree that risk assessment and coordination measures in the case of communicable diseases should be extended to all threats to health, whether they are of biological, chemical or environmental origin.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i am in favour of the proposal for a decision as it aims to increase the risk assessment and coordination measures currently applicable in the case of communicable diseases to all threats to health of biological, chemical or environmental origin and to strengthen the role of the health safety committee in view of better coordination of crisis management measures.
the negative effects of financial activity and its repercussions on third parties are a fairly faithful reflection of the manual example of the factory which, with its waste, also ends up polluting the stream that flows nearby.
the financial transaction tax (ftt) is an effective instrument in this respect, because while it is a means of combating speculation, it also becomes a productive source of income that can be used to promote social and development policies, or for example environmental policies, which today require special support.
the stability of the financial sector has enabled latvia to achieve a high level of sustainable economic convergence with the euro area.
for this reason, we call on the commission and the member states to pay particular attention to reviewing sustainable land use policies and best practices to increase the capacity of flood-control and drainage systems.
i don't know how things worked in greece, but a little more privacy, a little more energy, a little more freshness and a little less recommendation on public television i think would be good.
what will be more important is to avoid the mismanagement and waste of public funds that has occurred so far.
i am also obviously outraged and therefore share the outrage at this massive data collection, but i ask myself: why do i not see the same anger, the same irritation towards certain member states whose judicial authorities make excessive and i would even dare to say undue use of telephone and environmental interception, which also violates the privacy of citizens, entering with open feet into what is the sphere of individual freedom?
the €46 million provided for financial assistance must not, however, be a waste of money.
the concession would support the fiscal consolidation and external stabilisation effort under an international monetary fund programme, as well as support structural reforms that would stimulate sustainable growth and ensure transparency and efficiency in the management of public finances.
in the negotiations, european sensitivities concerning public services and services of general interest, such as public education, public health, water supply and waste disposal, must be taken into account.
however, when a country like norway defends its own agricultural production by artificially reducing the competitiveness of imported products, it does damage in two ways: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the directive.
− the european parliament, in its vote today, reiterated the crucial importance of the digital single market for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, inclusive and sustainable growth.
the egyptian government will have to respect the different political positions of the protesters, protect the rights and dignity of women, encourage their participation in political life and promote association as a key element for the creation of a sustainable democratic system.
- mr president, as has already been stressed and according to research, the production of traditional biofuels has negative effects on food prices and climate change because of the so-called 'indirect land use change' which generates an increase in greenhouse gas emissions.
the committee on regional development also considered the territorial implications of the new directive, namely that renewable energy and biofuels for transport are often produced by small and medium-sized enterprises, so that the sector's regulation has an impact on the production fabric of many regions of the union.
mr president, the text approved by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety seeks to highlight and at least partially remedy the harmful consequences of the use of biofuels derived from agricultural raw materials, especially in developing countries.
the transposition of the two directives on renewable energy and fuel quality has in the past encouraged the massive use of biofuels, but it has hidden the other side of the coin: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the working environment.
added to this is the production of additional co2 emissions as a result of changes in the use of cultivated land and the change in the use of large areas and land for new agroenergy crops.
in the face of almost universal indifference, we have been undermining the biodiversity of many countries for years, with negative repercussions also from the social, agricultural and economic points of view.
i therefore believe that the european union must now take a strong signal of change, by reconsidering the virtuousness of current biofuels, which has not been disputed so far, in relation to the targets set in the two directives mentioned, by taking account of their full effects and by taking a decisive step in the direction of the next generation of biofuels, often produced from waste and residues, on which many virtuous companies in europe are already starting to invest.
alongside our efforts to achieve the highest possible sustainability, we must always pay close attention to the competitiveness and soundness of the european energy system.
i also share the concern, which was very clearly expressed by the chairman of the committee on industry, research and energy, about the need to safeguard existing investments, which are also based on our forecasts.
this parliament has approved a report on energy-generating cooperatives and the possibility of providing for different production models, different industrial models, belonging to large industries or cooperative enterprises, which are still industries, albeit different.
it is not possible that the costs of efficient networks and obsolete technologies should be borne not so much by those responsible for them but rather by those at the bottom of the supply chain, namely, in particular, by the companies that need energy to produce.
the removal of all obstacles to the internal energy market is, and must continue to be, a priority.
this is not in itself a sign of irresponsible lending and borrowing, provided that borrowing levels are sustainable and repayments can be made.
mr president, i am in favour of this text, which is aimed at improving the use of technology in the transport sector, making it increasingly sustainable in line with the commitments required by the europe 2020 strategy.
new technologies offer enormous business opportunities for our companies, because reducing emissions in a sensible and non-oppressive way means investing in research and development.
the market for low-impact technologies is expected to grow much more, but it is necessary to adapt european networks to the intelligent use of green energy and low environmental impact, for example by creating an adequate number of electricity distributors.
the market for environmentally-friendly energy, valued at €1.2 trillion in 2007, is estimated to reach a value of over €3 trillion by 2020.
in writing.
− the union's main objectives include reducing energy consumption, traffic noise, air pollutants, the number of accidents and land use.
in the light of these considerations, i stress the need to make the european transport technology strategy as efficient as possible in order to reap the economic, environmental and social benefits that will boost sustainable growth and job creation.
it is urgently necessary to make the european transport technology strategy as efficient as possible in order to reap economic, environmental and social benefits, boosting sustainable growth and job creation.
the european transport technology strategy should also give priority to r&i that supports easy, sustainable and safe mobility for the most vulnerable citizens.
− a strategic approach to transport is one of the prerequisites for the sustainable development of european economies.
although this is a non-legislative dossier, i think the political statements contained in it are important: i believe that environmental policy should not be made by imposing restrictions and giving up progress, but by using what we have wisely.
in this particular case, i am referring to the fact that luddism would lead nowhere, whereas predicting the main aspects of future mobility and the rate of development of technologies can lead to planning that avoids waste and leads us to be rational in the exploitation of resources.
sustainable lifestyles are, in my view, a basic concept for reconciling environmental protection with the human requirements of economic, social and technological progress.
- i voted in favour of the proposal on a european transport technology strategy for future sustainable mobility, as i believe it will help to reduce energy consumption, air pollutants and traffic noise.
i also believe that more support should be given to the r & i activities of small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular by facilitating access to eu funds and reducing administrative burdens, and i stress the importance of creating and maintaining jobs and sustainable growth through r & i.
in writing.
the report addresses the collapse of the transport sector, particularly the maritime sector, saying that it is caused by the insufficient commitment the eu is making to renewable energy.
− the debate at eu level on future mobility trends is particularly strong on the need to ensure transport systems that are more sustainable in terms of the environment, health and quality of life for citizens.
the eu has set itself ambitious targets for reducing energy consumption, traffic noise, air pollutants, greenhouse gas emissions, the number of accidents and land use: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new transport policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new transport policy.
the challenges are still many, but i hope that this report can be a step forward in the pursuit of a more sustainable european transport.
− through the discussion and support of the report on the european transport technology strategy for the future sustainable mobility of europe, we wanted to highlight our commitment to achieving the europe 2020 goals.
it is undeniable that these objectives have become more difficult to achieve as the global economic situation has worsened, but this does not mean that the eu and its member states must not continue to take decisive legislative action to adopt measures to reduce the emission of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere and of those substances which pollute the environment.
i therefore believe that the call to continue and invest in research to implement europe's future sustainable mobility is appropriate.
− we are convinced that only by achieving the union's objectives in terms of reducing energy consumption, traffic noise, air pollutants, greenhouse gas emissions, the number of accidents and land use can we limit the impact of transport on climate change and contribute to improving the health and quality of life of the citizens of the european union.
we agree with the rapporteur who, in his report, which has been adopted today, has stressed the urgency of making the european transport technology strategy as efficient as possible, with the aim of deriving economic, environmental and social benefits from it, and of stimulating sustainable growth and job creation.
we therefore strongly support the launch of a new transport research and technological development policy to contribute to better spatial planning, new communication strategies and new behavioural approaches, helping to promote easy, sustainable and safe mobility for all european citizens, especially the most vulnerable.
i have expressed my favourable opinion on mr cramer's report on the development of a european transport technology strategy for the future of sustainable mobility in europe, because i believe it is important to encourage national and regional authorities to make efficient use of the resources available.
emphasising the importance of using new technologies and finding solutions that limit the environmental impact of new infrastructure, alongside projects for new means of transport, is of key importance for improving sustainable mobility in the union.
innovation in transport must be used to drastically reduce energy consumption and air pollutants, which are essential to limiting the impact of climate change and contributing to improving the health and quality of life of citizens.
the rapporteur, instead of identifying the causes of this collapse in the crisis of traditional industry, expresses an unjustified and arbitrary confidence in the potential of green energy which, in his view, should revive the entire european transport sector and consequently also increase employment and investment.
− developing a european transport technology strategy for the future of sustainable european mobility is an investment that europe cannot afford to lose.
in addition to improving the quality of life, services and health of citizens by meeting the commitments made under the europe 2020 strategy, this text aims to stimulate investment in research and development, facilitating europe's recovery so that it becomes more competitive with those countries that are achieving important milestones in sustainable technology and innovation.
it is clear that for a positive success we also need a synergistic design of our energy networks.
i believe it is important that the whole chain of innovation and sustainable development in europe includes all the actors directly and indirectly involved in the sector.
- i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the development of a european transport technology strategy for europe's future sustainable mobility because it promotes objectives that help to limit the impact of transport on climate change.
it also provides economic, environmental and social benefits, boosting sustainable growth and job creation.
the cramer report refers to the european commission's recent communication on a european strategy for sustainable mobility.
i voted in favour because the objectives set out in the text (including reducing energy consumption, traffic noise, air pollutants and greenhouse gas emissions) are designed to limit the impact of transport on climate change and thus contribute to improving the health and quality of life of european citizens.
mr president, so many small and weak national markets cannot end europe's energy dependence.
on the other hand, this is the picture of our energy market.
in this respect too, mr president, national price support policies must be abolished, to give oxygen and competitiveness to this sector, which is a very important step: the single european energy market must remain a priority objective.
mr president, the buzek report stresses the importance of completing the single energy market.
we know very well how much the cost of energy affects our competitiveness, but it is enough to point out that we are 50 per cent dependent on sources in other countries.
in his report, mr buzek sets out a recipe which is entirely acceptable to all, starting with the full implementation, or rather the full transposition by all the member states, of the third energy package, and which, in short, provides for a policy which ensures that consumers are better informed about the costs and benefits of an internal energy market, greater clarity in national and european legislation, more modern infrastructure and therefore more investment.
mr president, mr buzek's report sets the course for completing an open, competitive, integrated and consumer-oriented internal energy market.
in this context, the connecting europe facility plays a very important role, as it will give priority to infrastructure projects that can achieve internal market integration, in particular by encouraging the development of renewable sources, the creation of the necessary cross-border interconnections and security of supply.
in order for europe to reduce its energy dependence, actions to support self-production from renewable sources will have to be implemented, with investment in the distribution network through the widespread development of networks and smart meters.
i therefore fully support this report, since its main objective is to create a fully integrated european single energy market, where prices are transparent, including the specification of excise duties and environmental costs.
today in europe there are unacceptable differences in the price of energy, which vary too much from one country to another.
just think of an energy-intensive industry whose costs are burdened by electricity for 30 percent of the total.
mr president, the watchwords for households and businesses must be accessibility and sustainable prices.
other colleagues said so: gas in europe costs four times as much as in the united states, and energy twice as much.
households pay for energy costs from 7 to 20 percent.
companies, especially energy-intensive ones, have prohibitive energy costs and are therefore at risk of closing down or moving outside the european union, where energy costs are much lower.
the european union needs a competitive, integrated and fluid energy market that functions effectively and flexibly and is able to address climate and energy challenges.
mr president, we share mr buzek's report in supporting the completion of the internal energy market through the construction of new infrastructure and the full harmonisation of the rules for the functioning of the markets, a challenge which is necessary to adequately support the transition to a low-carbon economy.
we regret, however, that the union is not yet ready for the full realisation of the internal energy market, given the slowness of the member states in adapting national legislation and in creating competitive markets.
we believe that this parliament must work to ensure that our citizens and businesses have secure and low-cost energy systems in a globalised world where we are forced to depend on third countries and are often subjected to blackmail.
- i vote in favour of the report, which develops in detail the energy directives that make up the union's strategy, and in particular horizon 2020. i agree with the general picture, but on the subject of urgent measures i would like to join the recommendations in paragraph 15 on the urgency of implementing the single market to remedy the situation of disenfranchisement of consumers in many member states; 19 and 20 on the need to adapt networks and interconnections to the objectives and measures to encourage diversification of the mix; 26 on the need to base national plans and temporary measures on a criterion of consistency and legal certainty, in order to protect consumers and traders and therefore the integrity of investments; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not able to meet the requirements of the treaty.
- i voted in favour of the report by mr buzek because i believe that the completion of the internal energy market is an essential element in the realisation of the single european market which is the objective of most community policies.
i share the rapporteur's call for the commitments made for 2014 to be respected, and in particular for the common energy strategy to be geared to reducing costs, both for individual users and for businesses, especially smes.
the cost of energy is a major obstacle to recovery and a serious handicap in relation to our international competitors.
it is not possible that the costs of inefficient networks and obsolete technologies should be borne not by those responsible for them but by those downstream, in particular the companies that need energy to produce.
the removal of all obstacles to the internal energy market is and must remain a priority: this is one of the textbook examples of how the european union, by combining similar needs, can harness economies of scale and create critical mass to be able to change contract terms, as well as find the resources to make those much-needed investments in efficiency.
− the completion of the internal energy market is a key element.
more attention to consumer needs, technological innovation, better infrastructure, market opening and diversification of energy sources and supplier countries: these are the issues that need to be addressed at european level if we are to achieve greater market transparency and more competitive energy prices.
- energy is the basis of production and growth and is essential for economic and industrial development, so it is essential to have a market which is accessible and which can offer the best conditions to consumers, whether they are individuals, households or businesses.
the latter, for example, are penalized or benefited by energy costs which vary significantly within the same european countries, and this is not acceptable in a single market with very strict rules and constraints.
unfortunately, italy has the negative side of having one of the most expensive energy markets on the continent, and this is a very heavy burden on our economy.
a genuine and effective single energy market could be a solution to these imbalances, provided it is achieved with clear rules and the benefits accrue to end users.
consumers are often cited in the report as the focal point for action and the guiding principle for all choices: i can only agree with that, of course, but i would like the real benefits for users to be really significant, not as happened unfortunately with the liberalisation of the italian energy market, the benefits of which are still hard to see.
i understand them, the production market is still highly concentrated: in eight member states, more than 80% of energy production is still controlled by the former monopolist.
in a well-functioning energy market, which ideally solves the issue of externalities, investments in production should be driven by market considerations rather than subsidies.
the energy sector is generally perceived as operating in markets that are not transparent or open to new entrants, including demand-side service providers.
energy efficiency cannot rely on economically rational investment, or at least not to a sufficient extent.
consumer satisfaction is low, even in member states whose energy markets are already fairly competitive.
- 2014 is the deadline set by the european union for the creation of an internal energy market.
energy efficiency must ensure savings and maximum use of available resources with the aim of avoiding waste by ensuring safe access to energy products at reasonable prices for households and businesses.
the european commission has prepared an official communication to urge member states to harmonise their national legislation in order to achieve the 2014 target of the official opening of the single energy market.
the promotion of low-carbon technologies, cost reduction, modernisation of existing energy systems and competition in markets are the basis for the implementation of these new guidelines to improve energy use in the european union.
- i voted in favour of this proposal because competition in the internal energy market ensures security of energy supply, improves consumer surplus and welfare.
a competitive, transparent, well-integrated and well-regulated energy market contributes to the well-being of european citizens; building such a market requires action by parliament and the commission.
- the european parliament today wanted to stress that an accessible and transparent internal energy market must revolve around the real interests of final consumers, whether they are individual citizens, smes or large industry.
- i voted in favour of the buzek report, which stresses the need to meet the commitments for the completion of the internal energy market by 2014. the text stresses the importance of developing new technologies and improved infrastructure in order to achieve greater market transparency and more competitive prices.
mr president, the eu 2020 strategy is aimed at boosting energy efficiency.
the 'cohesion' legislative package, currently being defined for the period 2014-2020, increases to almost double the budget foreseen to achieve the 20% energy consumption reduction target.
these strategic targets, however, seem fanciful in the light of the data recorded in the period 2007-2013, during which the 5.5 billion allocated to the energy efficiency target was used only to 60 percent.
mr president, the commitment of europe's regions must be geared towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, taking into account local specificities and conditions and allowing them sufficient flexibility to focus on energy sources that are best suited to local conditions and resources, in order to achieve the objectives of the 2020 strategy; at the same time, the specific needs of european citizens in each member state must also be taken into account.
it is noted that after 2015 no region in the member states should remain isolated from the european gas and electricity networks or have inadequate connections to energy networks.
the creation of a single european energy market, which would allow the optimum use of renewable resources, is essential for full and uniform implementation, in line with the buzek report which was voted on this morning and which we were discussing just a few minutes ago.
- i voted in favour of the report by my colleague kleva kekuš because i share the strong call for cohesion policy to include specific measures that can deliver concrete results in the field of energy efficiency.
- parliament today called for a greater financial commitment, a stronger position in the context of the forthcoming legislative texts (thematic concentrations) and a clear role for energy efficiency measures in the context of implementation procedures (operational programmes).
these elements constitute the three pillars of support for future cohesion policy interventions in the field of energy efficiency.
improving energy efficiency is a key goal for european competitiveness.
investing in greater energy efficiency means looking at the long-term and the sustainability of the european economy, both from an environmental and an energy perspective.
− the european union faces a challenging challenge to achieve its target of reducing total energy consumption by 20% by 2020. we believe that improving energy efficiency is a key goal for european competitiveness and a win-win solution in the fight against climate change.
investing in energy efficiency measures can bring immediate and tangible benefits to households and businesses, such as cost reductions, job creation, growth and encouraging the transition to a low-carbon economy.
we agree with the commission that cohesion policy is one of the main sources of support for the eu to achieve its energy efficiency target and therefore propose a greater financial commitment for the coming years in this area.
only with a stronger financial commitment will europe be able to achieve the energy efficiency targets it has set itself.
- i supported this resolution because cohesion policy is one of the main sources of support for enabling the eu to achieve its energy efficiency target.
the commission has responded to this challenge by proposing to at least double the share of the cohesion policy budget allocated to climate-related expenditure, including energy efficiency, for the next programming period (2014-2020).
increased financial commitment, a stronger position in upcoming legislative texts (thematic concentrations) and a clear role for energy efficiency measures in the implementation procedures (operational programmes) are the three pillars of support for future cohesion policy interventions in favour of energy efficiency.
− energy efficiency has always been a core issue of the unionʼs strategy for sustainable growth.
given the progress made so far, more actions are necessary to improve energy efficiency and achieve our goal of reducing overall energy consumption by 20 %.
as a more energy-efficient europe will eventually contribute to economic growth, benefit european energy consumers and help relieve the suffering of climate change, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution to urge the commission and the member states to support energy saving in policy-making.
- this morning parliament voted on the implementation and impact of energy efficiency measures in the union.
in a context of environmental pollution, it is crucial to promote energy efficiency policies that can improve not only europe's environmental conditions, facilitating the transition to a low-carbon economy, but also the competitiveness of companies in the sector, the creation of new jobs and the reduction of costs.
the union is also trying to meet these demands by doubling the funds allocated to issues with obvious climate impact, such as energy efficiency.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
− the kleva report assesses the results of cohesion policy measures aimed at improving energy efficiency, proposes a set of suggestions to strengthen the impact of the measures for the next programming period and analyses the actual compatibility of european, national and regional cohesion policy objectives with energy efficiency objectives.
an ecosystem approach by non-eu countries should therefore be encouraged to maintain a good ecological status of the marine environment.
the aim is to develop sustainable activities with positive effects on the coastal community and its hinterland, taking into account the specific characteristics of this sea basin, its shape, with relatively shallow and sandy bottoms, its lagoons, islands and coastal regions.
this will give a major boost to the development of sustainable economic activities and will have a beneficial effect on coastal communities and adjacent inland areas.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on the maritime strategy for the adriatic and ionian seas, which is intended to stimulate smart and sustainable growth in the region.
despite the fact that there have always been intense economic and social interactions between the neighbouring countries - now further strengthened by the eu accession process - the adriatic-ionian area has remained heterogeneous in economic, environmental and cultural terms.
these countries share many resources, including fish stocks, and consequently have to deal with various issues directly or indirectly linked to the development of the fisheries and aquaculture sector, such as sea pollution, increased urbanisation, coastal erosion, differences in the economic development of coastal areas, etc.
the european commission has recently adopted a communication proposing a maritime strategy for the adriatic and ionian seas, one of the four strategic pillars of which is the promotion of sustainable fisheries.
an ad hoc strategy for the adriatic and ionian seas must not only aim to conserve and protect the marine environment and its surroundings, thereby preserving the biodiversity of the basin itself, but also to grow the fisheries and aquaculture sector in a sustainable way, while creating new jobs.
- we welcome this report which aims to promote the development of a new community strategy in the field of fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian sea basin, with a view to making a substantial contribution to the development of sustainable activities with positive effects on coastal and inland communities.
we therefore strongly support the commission's proposal for a maritime strategy for the adriatic and ionian seas, of which the promotion of sustainable fisheries is one of the four strategic pillars.
the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to the measures taken by the member states in the field of the environment.
the signs of a structural crisis in fisheries are clear in this area, and the limits of a policy that not only fails to improve the conditions of fishermen, but also fails to maintain biodiversity.
the fact that different skills coexist in a virtually closed environment can create various problems and difficulties which should be resolved as soon as possible.
concerted action is needed both to protect fish stocks and to ensure a minimum requirement of respect and protection of the environment: the adriatic must once again be a source of employment and livelihood for the coastal communities, which have had a long tradition of centuries of fishing activity, which cannot and must not be abandoned, despite the difficulties of the period linked to very strong competition from foreign fisheries.
− this report aims to promote the development of a new community strategy in the field of fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian sea basin, with a view to making a substantial contribution to the development of sustainable activities with positive effects on coastal and inland communities.
the adriatic sea and the adjacent ionian sea constitute an important marine area of interest to seven countries: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013) and a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2008-2013).
although there have always been intense economic and social interactions between these countries - now further strengthened by the eu accession process - the adriatic-ionian area has remained heterogeneous in economic, environmental and cultural terms.
the european union is on one side and the balkans are on the other, so it is essential to establish strategic coordination for fisheries, the ecological system and the economic and social interests of the inhabitants of these coastal areas.
this fact requires cooperation by these neighbouring countries to ensure sustainable fishing activities, especially considering the rise in the installation of fishing facilities that are incompatible with other activities in the area.
with the assistance of the commission, a strategy promoting cooperation can be implemented to encourage responsible and sustainable fishing activities in the area.
the european commission has recently adopted a communication proposing a maritime strategy for the adriatic and ionian seas, of which the promotion of sustainable fisheries is one of the four strategic pillars.
for too many years, the limits of exploitation of these waters have been exceeded: the whole system now needs to be reorganised, developing sustainable activities that can have a positive impact on all the coastal communities concerned and their hinterland.
− in times of crisis, economic and labour force recovery is also a result of policies aimed at the exploitation of environmental resources.
i therefore voted in favour of mr milana's report, which aims to promote the development of a new community strategy for fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian seas, with the aim of making a substantial contribution to the development of sustainable activities with positive effects on coastal and inland communities.
the text condemns the waste of at least eur 15.39 million in interpreting services over the past three years due to the inefficient use of resources and calls on the bureau to take the necessary measures to contain expenditure.
i believe, however, that at the same time the interpretation service must be made more efficient, avoiding unnecessary waste and costs, such as those associated with late cancellations of interpretation requests.
written statements (rule 149)
i can only agree with the council that we should give a further blow to the costs of the european institutions, which are too often the source of enormous waste, starting with the still unresolved question of the dual seat of this parliament, on which i would like the lithuanian presidency to take a clear stand.
these are bad signs, because resources cannot be diverted from the most productive part of the european economy, which must be the engine for the recovery; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
it is a sign that we must respond to the new global challenges with an integrated approach, on the one hand, of course, by setting up targeted policies such as the youth guarantee, erasmus plus and other targeted programmes, but above all by activating 'younger' policies, coherent and innovative, based on the expansion of skills, a real warfare, and policies for new employment in sectors that are too often marginal, such as culture, research, tourism, territorial development and the environment, and by widening access to the opportunities of european programming.
digital technologies have the potential to provide europeans with a better quality of life through, for example, better healthcare, safer transport, efficient energy distribution, consumption, new media opportunities and easier cross-border access to goods and services.
i worry that the answer is no and, having read the resolution from the committee on industry, research and energy, i think that you and your committee agree.
i do not propose to change our focus or our goals but i want to use the tools readily to hand and to support every part of the ecosystem.
the resolution from your committee on industry, research and energy underlines how important entrepreneurs are: they represent an alternative career path in a time of unemployment and they are a necessary source of stimulus in a time of low growth.
secondly, particular attention was paid to enshrining in the code the principle of a paperless environment for customs and trade.
this is crucial compared to the current legal situation, in which paperless operations are not the rule and the paperless environment is therefore not applied evenly.
i very much share the need to simplify procedures by means of computerised procedures in order to develop a more dynamic environment in terms of competitiveness and at the same time growth.
- i support the report by mr groote on the appointment of the executive directors of the european environment agency (eea) and its need to bring it into line with the procedures for the appointment of the executive directors of other european agencies.
− the alignment of the criteria for appointing the executive directors of the european environment agency with those of the other authorities is a step forward in several respects.
it was not possible to continue to maintain an anomaly in the system of european agencies, due to the fact that the regulation of the environment agency precedes the founding regulations of the other agencies.
the first paragraph of article 9 of the regulation governs the appointment of the executive director of the european environment agency and does not currently include the requirement that the candidate selected by the agency's management board be heard by the competent organ of the european parliament before being appointed.
however, this requirement is contained in the regulations establishing other agencies, in particular the european chemicals agency, the european medicines agency and the european food safety authority, which fall within the remit of parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi).
in fact, this lack of specific reference to the parliamentary hearing is mainly due to the fact that the regulation establishing the european environment agency predates the regulations establishing the other agencies, as its original version dates back to 1990.
in writing.
− the european environment agency (eea) is an agency of the european union that serves as a major information source on environmental issues.
- in today's vote, the european parliament has defined its position to put an end to the obvious side effects of european legislation, committing itself to preventing the production of biofuels and renewable energies from taking land away from agriculture and, therefore, food, especially in those countries which, more than the european union, need agricultural land and food.
− the renewable energy directive sets the target of 20% renewable energy in total eu energy consumption and 10% renewable energy in transport by 2020. at the same time, the fuel quality directive introduced a binding target of a 6% reduction in the greenhouse gas emissions intensity of fuels for road transport and non-road mobile machinery.
the commission proposal amends the previous directives on fuel quality and the promotion of renewable energy to take account of iluc, i.e.
emissions associated with land use change for biofuels, which reduce environmental benefits.
the iluc proposal therefore aims to limit the role of biofuels derived from agricultural crops in accounting for the 10% renewable energy target for transport by 2020. i share the objectives of the commission's legislative proposal, which aims to reward the most virtuous biofuels, in terms of co2 emissions compared to the reference fossil fuel and non-competitiveness with the agricultural world for land use.
over the past decade, the push for biofuels as a solution to energy over-reliance has led to excessive competition between food crops and biofuel crops, triggering a spiral of rising food prices.
on the other hand, reaching a minimum threshold for the consumption of energy from advanced biofuels by 2020 will preserve investments already made in the sector and encourage the search for alternative solutions for energy production.
i hope, however, that the council will reach a common position close to that voted today in plenary, in order to ensure that our citizens have a sustainable energy strategy in the long term as soon as possible.
while existing investments should be protected, the aims of the commission's proposal are to limit the contribution of conventional biofuels to the objectives set by the renewable energy directive.
the greenhouse gas performance of biofuel production processes should also be improved by increasing the greenhouse gas reduction threshold, protecting installations already in operation on 1 july 2014; finally, the market penetration of advanced biofuels should be encouraged, enabling them to contribute more to the objectives of the renewable energy directive than conventional biofuels.
− the report on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources and the quality of petrol and fuel, the so-called iluc (emissions associated with land use change for biofuels), sets as a main objective the use of 10% of renewable energy for transport by 2020. the impact of indirect land-use change on greenhouse gas emissions needs to be reviewed to be reduced in line with ongoing investments and production activities.
the research into alternative materials must also be encouraged if we are to achieve this goal in the time allotted and protect the health of citizens through the increased use of renewable energies.
- i am voting in favour of the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 98/70/ec on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and directive 2009/28/ec on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources.
environmental protection is a key element of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
however, in parallel, the indirect land use change factor (iluc) needs to be integrated into the methodology used to determine the effects of biomass fuels on the ecosystem.
for these reasons, i consider this proposal for a directive to be an appropriate response to the need to examine the problem of greenhouse gas emissions in greater depth in the light of new sustainability criteria and new possible alternatives.
- as the rapporteur has pointed out, the european eel stock is subject to a host of problems: over-exploitation, loss of critical habitats, pollution, pests, changes in ocean currents as a result of global climate change, and so on.
the stock has exceeded safe biological limits and fishing at current levels is not sustainable.
- the european eel stock is subject to a myriad of problems: over-exploitation, loss of critical habitats, pollution, pests, changes in ocean currents as a result of climate change at the global level.
the stock has exceeded safe biological limits and fishing at current levels is no longer sustainable.
i agree with the rapporteur that the verification of further simplifications in the application of customs legislation by means of computerised procedures can be beneficial for the development of a dynamic environment in terms of competitiveness and growth, but on condition that the scope and time limit of such verification are made explicit in the regulation itself.
i very much share the need to simplify procedures by means of computerised procedures in order to develop a more dynamic environment in terms of competitiveness and growth.
in order to adjust to the evolution of institutions and facilitate the eu integration process and, in the meantime, promote competitiveness and economic growth, it is necessary to simultaneously ensure free movement of goods, control international trade and protect consumers, which cannot be achieved without aligning the union customs code to a more modernised, harmonised and uniform customs environment.
this regulation will ensure a dynamic environment in terms of competitiveness and growth, while providing an appropriately uniform level of control of goods.
− what is worth highlighting is the flexible and open approach suggested by the rapporteur, who proposes to limit the delegation to a (renewable) period of five years and to monitor the delegation of power by asking the commission to report on this before the end of each five-year period.
i believe that environmental impact assessment should be of fundamental importance in the decision-making process on public projects which may reduce green space, and that this priority should be given in a feasible, practical and not excessively costly way.
− directive 2011/92/eu provides for a legal obligation to carry out an environmental impact assessment (eia) of public and private projects that may have a significant impact on the environment, before they are authorised.
there is a consensus that the main objective of the directive has been achieved; the principles of environmental assessment have been harmonised across the eu by introducing minimum requirements concerning the type of projects to be assessed, the main obligations of the contractor, the content of the assessment and the participation of the competent authorities and the public.
at the same time, within the permitting process, the eia is a tool to assess the environmental costs and benefits of specific projects in order to ensure their sustainability.
as a result, the directive has become a key instrument for mainstreaming environmental issues and has produced both socioeconomic and environmental benefits, as well as protection of the urban environment.
− in the context of the eu/cfsp special partnership, the european union has pursued a policy that goes beyond the traditional donor-recipient relationship and aims to deepen relations with cape verde, promote good governance, security and stability, sustainable development and the fight against poverty, culture and the building of an information and knowledge society, regulatory and technical convergence.
- i welcome this recommendation in the context of the eu-cape verde special partnership, the european union has committed itself to a policy that goes beyond the traditional donor-recipient relationship and is aimed at deepening relations with cape verde, promoting good governance, security and stability, sustainable development and the fight against poverty, culture and the building of an information and knowledge society, regulatory and technical convergence.
for this reason i agree with the report about the importance of strategic investment of eu structural funds for regional development, competitiveness and sustainable jobs.
it is inconceivable that we should speak of 'inadequate qualifications' and 'waste of brains' - highly qualified young people who could contribute to the building of our society's well-being but who are relegated to playing much lower roles.
the construction of a common european model that promotes a balanced and sustainable social market economy is clearly a priority.
malaysia is a country that has shown a willingness to increase energy efficiency, renewable energy use and investment in green technologies in transport, energy and construction, despite being a large oil and gas producer.
to also welcome the need to transform its economy into a low-carbon economy as part of its responsibilities in the global fight against climate change.
indeed, the only way to build a sustainable democracy in egypt is the path of national reconciliation and an inclusive political process.
− the issue of biodiversity depletion is widely recognised and a cause for concern.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
his fall, supported by the latter, saw new elections and the victory of the muslim brotherhood, which we saw how they governed: the remedy has been worse than the disease, demonstrating that a muslim-inspired government is not sustainable, especially in a country where there is a large christian minority and a strong feeling of institutional secularism.
it also encourages increasing the military presence at seas in order to secure trade and energy routes.
− maritime space is playing an increasingly important geostrategic role, as it involves different sectors such as international trade, security and the environment.
the european union has a strong interest in maintaining a safe maritime environment, guaranteeing the free movement and safety of goods and persons in this space, as well as ensuring the application of the principles of the united nations charter in this area.
we should support a drastic rationalisation of european military capacities in order to reduce existing overcapacities which are not sustainable.
this report is a fully coherent follow-up to the debate that has opened up in the european council, and is in line with the commitments on the introduction of the golden rule in european fiscal policies and with the objectives of building an inclusive, smart and sustainable europe by 2020. it is useless to continue to vote in this parliament calling on the european commission to promote employment, to promote the development of infrastructure, to stimulate the economy, if the critical points, the knots that the stability and growth pact highlights in the course of its implementation are not resolved.
we all agree that oceans and seas are a source of growth and development and that the use of the sea and the exploitation of our resources, living or non-living, needs to be sustainable.
in order to achieve sustainability, we need a robust legal and administrative framework, a good system of governance, efficient resource management and effective monitoring, control and enforcement of regionally agreed measures.
we must do our homework and enforce our own legislation, be it in fisheries or in the environmental field.
the commission will continue to play its role as guardian of the treaties, negotiator and coordinator, but member states and partner countries must also do their part to achieve sustainable exploitation with a low impact on the environment.
i am currently reflecting on a possible initiative to encourage member states to make the maximum use of their rights and obligations under the exclusive economic zones regime, in order to enhance sustainable management of natural resources and to boost blue growth.
the agenda includes the report by linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states relating to the processing, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products (com (((2012) 0788 - c7-0420/2012 - 2012/0366 ((cod)) (a7-0276/2013).
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, tomorrow's vote on the revision of the directive on the environmental impact assessment of certain public or private projects is a crucial test for the future of the union's environmental policy, the impact of which will be reflected for several years in the lives of millions of european citizens.
this directive is of fundamental importance because it establishes the principle of informed decision before authorising projects which may have a significant impact on the environment, from motorways to intensive poultry farms.
after almost 30 years of application, it is therefore time to revise this text, not only in the light of the critical issues identified but also to align it with the new priorities that the union has set itself in the meantime, such as the soil protection strategy, the roadmap for an efficient and effective use of resources, the 2020 strategy and the protection of biodiversity.
the climate of cooperation between the shadow rapporteurs, which i am grateful for, has led to a major revision of the text, without, however, distorting the ultimate objective of improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the start-up procedure for all the actors involved: public administrations, contracting authorities and the public concerned.
shale gas and natural gas from coal fields, to an environmental impact assessment.
i believe that our water is too precious a commodity to be put at risk by the use of high impact drilling techniques such as hydraulic billing and therefore it is vital for the european union that the exploitation of shale gas is subject to the strictest environmental standards.
i therefore appeal to the sense of responsibility of my colleagues to bear in mind that with tomorrow's vote we have the opportunity to equip the union with a crucial operational tool to respond to the global challenges of the 21st century and to contribute concretely to the realisation of a green economy capable of ensuring the sustainability of the projects we want to implement in our territories and a better quality of life for all citizens of the european union.
i would like to return to the question of shale gas to clarify this point and to say that it is not a question of making a choice for or against this type of extraction, but simply of subjecting it, like all other very important activities, to an environmental impact assessment.
as the alde group we have tabled an amendment which seeks to find a cross-cutting agreement and which practically eliminates that part of the assessment provided for in the assessment but retains the environmental impact assessment as regards exploration and extraction.
as far as exploration is concerned, for those very impactful phases like hydraulic fracturing, which is the one that creates the greatest concerns and the greatest problems to the potential pollution of the aquifer.
as regards the problem raised by some colleagues of the jobs that such a directive could lead to, i would like to take the example of ilva, a large industrial complex which is in danger of closing down because of immense environmental and health problems and is in danger of leaving hundreds and hundreds of people at home.
so if we do a serious and intelligent environmental impact assessment - as the commissioner has pointed out earlier - we will also avoid that there may one day be problems for the environment, but also for the economy and for the jobs of european citizens.
as is well known, increased competition from countries with low production costs and the rapid spread of new information technologies have brought many italian and european ict companies, already hard pressed by the current difficult economic environment, to their knees.
corruption is not only an abuse of delegated power to obtain an unfair profit, thus hindering harmonious economic development, but also creates unfair and discriminatory situations with regard to the equal enjoyment of human rights, whether civil, political and economic or social and cultural, creating negative impacts on the environment and disproportionately affecting the most disadvantaged and marginalised groups in society, depriving them in particular of equal access to political life, public services, justice, security, land, employment, education, health and housing.
− rapid transitions have been taking place in recent decades in the area of dynamics of power, demographic change, climate change, urbanisation, technology, etc., and we can expect to witness more such transitions in the coming years.
the new global environment will increasingly evolve towards a higher level of uncertainty, which is why the identification of global trends will be a key aspect of europe's ability to prepare for and respond to future challenges.
the commission has therefore been careful to destroy a high-quality supply chain by opening the door to less controlled extra-european production, produced without respect for social, environmental and quality standards.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that none of us is questioning the harmfulness of smoking, that is out of the question, and yet i believe that it is essential to strike a balance between legitimate health concerns and the sustainability of our european tobacco industry.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, having voted overwhelmingly in favour of this report, i would like to emphasize the role of parliament in international fisheries agreements, which means that in the last few months parliament has had to take a very strong stand against the commission in order to give life to this type of report, trying to make the fisheries agreement appear as a mere trade agreement and to make it appear as part of the investment that europe is making in these poor countries, on which there is an objective need to maintain the environmental impact of our activities.
the text promotes the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources, contributing to environmental and social sustainability, protecting the seabed and the local fisheries sector and improving food security.
for these reasons, i believe that the protocol is an important signal of the eu's concrete commitment to a sustainable fisheries policy consistent with development policies.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, without greater flexibility in the implementation of the stability pact, the conditions for economic recovery will be lacking: in recent years there has been a steady decline in investment with negative repercussions on education and sustainable employment.
in this situation, it is difficult to predict that the crisis will be overcome and that inclusive, intelligent and sustainable growth will be achieved.
the european parliament can and should suggest options to enable local, regional and national authorities to invest in inclusive, sustainable and smart growth.
in this context, it is important that parliament identify options to enable local, regional and national authorities to invest in inclusive, sustainable and smart growth, in particular by reviewing the relationship between the stability and growth pact and productive public investment.
the eu's main objectives are to promote socioeconomic development in the region through climate change adaptation and foreign trade policy and to promote sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources through a transparent management system.
the strategy will have to address the issues of adaptation to climate change, the development of foreign trade, the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources and transparency in fisheries management, in the interests of both the countries of the area and the union.
the main objectives of the european union should, in our view, be to promote socioeconomic development in the region through climate change adaptation and foreign trade policy, and also to promote sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources through a clear, sustainable and transparent management system.
i therefore voted in favour of this proposal to establish a feasible framework to promote sustainable tuna fishing in the western and central pacific.
on fisheries issues, it is crucial to strengthen the union's presence in the region in order to promote sustainable fisheries through transparent management, which will bring long-term benefits both to the union and to the pacific states, which already receive significant community aid.
− given that the mediterranean and black seas have specific characteristics from an oceanographic, fisheries, environmental and socio-economic point of view, and that increased competition for marine resources and more limited fish stocks leads to the emergence of regional tensions and possible disputes between coastal states concerning maritime areas, i believe that greater cooperation and political cohesion are needed between the coastal states concerned and i stress the important role of bilateral cooperation and international agreements, as the majority of the countries in the black sea and mediterranean region are not eu member states and are therefore not subject to union legislation.
however, i believe that the eu cannot afford to provide financial and technical support to the third country to apply eu-level standards of sustainable management, given the limited funds allocated to the fisheries sector.
the amendments include reductions in noise and exhaust emissions, the introduction of more flexible conformity assessment procedures and alignment with horizontal standards on accreditation and ce marking.
with this report, which has been adopted today, we wish to stress that the settlement of disputes relating to the delimitation of maritime boundaries and the establishment of fisheries protection zones must be carried out in full compliance with international law, on the basis of the principles of fair cooperation, transparency, equality and equity, ensuring the sustainability of marine resources and the protection of ecosystems, in particular by respecting the united nations convention on the law of the sea, and in particular article 62. the european union, for its part, considers it appropriate to continue to support developing countries in the coastal areas so that they can implement sustainable fisheries management plans in their territorial waters and effectively combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
sustainable fishing and increased control of iuu (illegal, unreported and unregulated) fishing must be promoted.
a regional approach to the protection of fish species, sustainable fishing in the mediterranean and the black sea, is useful in respecting the waters, since these seas have limited rates of renewal and are therefore subject to heavy pollution.
this will only be possible if maritime management in the mediterranean and black sea is carried out with cooperation and political cohesion between the coastal states concerned, stressing the important role of bilateral cooperation and international agreements, as most countries in the black sea and mediterranean region are not eu member states and are therefore not subject to union legislation, which is why i call on the eu, in order to improve cooperation with neighbouring countries and the management of shared stocks, to aim at the conclusion of cooperation agreements for sustainable fisheries with these countries; calls for the cooperation agreements to be aimed not at acquiring fishing rights for eu vessels, but at creating a situation where the eu provides financial and technical support in order to have the third partner country apply standards comparable to those of the eu in terms of sustainable management;
president-in-office of the council.
only then can we create the environment for investment, which is lacking today, especially private investment, compared with other parts of the world where our competitors are.
for example, the commission will aim to address sustainable development matters such as preventing the lowering of standards to attract investment, supporting social and environmental standards, and providing a reference in support of internationally recognised standards of corporate social responsibility and appropriate procedures to address disputes in this area.
so no investment at the expense of environmental quality or social rights and the quality of intellectual property protection and a legal platform that protects our small businesses once they land in china with non-discriminatory access and legal certainty.
we should instead start demanding that china also comply with a minimum of social, environmental and economic standards in practice; perhaps only then can we help our businesses that are closing and our workers who are losing their jobs.
we are talking about china not to defend our companies and our workers, the right to the environment, the right of exploited children, but only to help banks, insurance companies, multinationals - better if german!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner tajani, i would like to congratulate our dear friend mr harbour on his brilliant work on the safety of pleasure boats and the protection of the environment, which is of vital importance, of course, for my country, italy, but equally important is the protection of the safety of those who do not go by boat but swim in that same sea.
what i think is important, and what can become a point of reference - i would even say a small model - is that the subject of safety and respect for the environment has been chosen for this sector, not only as a value for users, and therefore for consumers, but also as the central axis of a model of competitiveness, which in this sector concerns small and mediumsized enterprises, but which can be applied to the whole vast manufacturing area that counts in europe.
so i am sure that it will be adopted tomorrow, but i think it is very important to reaffirm and emphasize these two aspects: the combination of environment and safety makes high-profile competition possible.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the legislative proposal as amended, i think it appropriate not to vote on the draft legislative resolution, but to refer the text of this important report back to committee, so that we can assess whether there is room for negotiations with the council in order to provide the citizens of the union with a new and more effective directive on environmental impact assessment as soon as possible.
before authorising the execution of a public or private project likely to have an impact on the environment, the competent authorities of the member states are legally obliged to obtain the information necessary to carry out an environmental impact assessment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new environmental impact assessment directive requires that all projects likely to have an impact on the environment must be transparent and that the information needed to ensure maximum involvement of citizens in the decision-making process must be made available to everyone.
among the priorities: soil protection, monitoring of cumulation with other projects or activities, mandatory eia for all projects with a significant impact on the environment, post-eia monitoring, but above all, certain timelines and clear procedures for public consultation and the population concerned.
i understand the concerns expressed by many about possible negative repercussions and bureaucratic burdens, but it is still important to involve citizens as much as possible in the right to health and in environmental and landscape rights.
− directive 2011/92/eu concerns the assessment of the environmental impact of certain public/private projects and is a cornerstone of the european union's environmental policy.
this directive has, over the years of its application, achieved some success in harmonising the principles of environmental assessment at european level, however, some weaknesses have been identified which have given rise to a significant number of legal disputes both at national level and before the court of justice of the eu.
while i welcome the proposal in its broad outline, i do not think it is justified to involve the public in the preliminary stage of the environmental impact assessment procedure for projects covered by the directive.
i also believe that the list of information required in the 'environmental report' has been arbitrarily extended: some forecasts, such as the requirement for the developer to present alternatives with a lower impact than the project, or the assessment of cumulative effects with other projects, are not relevant for the purpose of the impact assessment of the project and may result in an increase in the administrative burden for the developer of the project itself.
− i share the need to reformulate the framework for the environmental impact assessment procedure to adapt it to the new needs and political priorities of the union, but above all to give greater legal certainty to operators, given the numerous litigations that have been initiated before the court of justice.
i believe that environmental impact assessment should be of fundamental importance in the decision-making process on public projects which may reduce green space, and that this priority should be given in a feasible, practical and not excessively costly way.
- in the morning, the european parliament, in plenary, voted on a report by mr zanoni on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2011/92/eu on the assessment of the environmental impact of certain public and private projects.
as a cornerstone of the union's environmental policy, the directive has played a crucial role in ensuring the environmental sustainability of the many projects within its scope over a period of some 30 years, by strongly affirming the principle of 'informed decision': the implementation of a public or private project likely to have an effect on the environment must be preceded by a careful analysis by the competent authorities to carry out an environmental impact assessment.
i am very pleased with a resolution which improves the environmental audits to be carried out ex ante and ex post and strengthens the directive with due regard to the new challenges of biodiversity, resource efficiency and climate change.
− i have given a favourable opinion on the european parliament and council directive amending directive 2011/92/eu on the assessment of the environmental impact of certain public and private projects (eia directive).
this legislation plays a crucial role in the union's environmental policy, as weaknesses have been identified and have given rise to a significant number of legal disputes both at national level and before the court of justice of the eu.
before authorising the implementation of a public or private project likely to have an impact on the environment, the competent authorities of the member states have a legal obligation to obtain the information necessary to carry out an environmental impact assessment.
it is essential to ensure that the environmental report is verified by fully independent experts with appropriate technical expertise in environmental matters.
achieving a true 'green economy' also means ensuring the sustainability of projects on our territory, and designing and implementing them in relation to their impact on resource efficiency, climate change and biodiversity loss, particularly with regard to major infrastructure projects.
- i supported the harbour report on the updating of european legislation on safety and environmental compatibility requirements for pleasure boats and watercraft.
the following assessments of emissions are also important: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
- i voted in favour of this proposal because it introduces stricter limits on the exhaust emissions and noise levels of recreational craft, thus bringing european legislation on the subject into line with the highest standards currently in force worldwide.
since the rules are intended to be adapted to international rules and the requirements concern important issues such as safety and the environment, i am voting in favour.
− recreational craft and personal watercraft, including motor boats, yachts and water scooters, have become more popular but existing eu rules and regulations on safety and environmental performance for these watercraft designed for private activities have yet to be modernised.
the amendments to the recreational craft legislation will significantly reduce the overall level of toxic emissions from petrol and diesel boats, while also giving manufacturers six years to comply with the new legislation.
− with this vote, the european parliament approves new rules for safer and greener recreational craft, reducing their emissions of polluting exhaust gases by 20%.
the new jobs are often the expression of local vocations and that is why they need wider protection, as is the case with the development and sustainability of our economy.
although my views and those of the rapporteur have often been different, as have the views of our italian colleagues and those of colleagues from other countries within the same political group, i appreciated the ability to listen and compromise shown by mrs vergnaud and voted in favour of the amendments to the directive, except for the points relating to tourist guides, on which i abstained because their role in protecting the artistic and environmental heritage of italy was not taken into account.
so the negotiations can only go ahead if the basic principles are respected: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected, such as reciprocity, protection of intellectual property, protection of investments and investors, protection of the environment and workers' rights, and of course human rights.
the poor implementation of certain fundamental rights in the social, labour or environmental fields is also one of the causes of the current imbalance: trade must be a tool for improving human rights and standards of working conditions globally.
an eu-china agreement in this area would lead to an improvement in economic relations between the two sides, creating a more favourable environment for political dialogue, which could help overcome the obstacles responsible for the current stalemate in their relations, such as the issue of human rights.
i believe that there are all the conditions for us to work to promote the negotiations, so that we can put in place as soon as possible an instrument that can promote and encourage trade in goods and services, to create a stable and favourable investment environment, legal certainty, protection of investments and intellectual property rights and geographical indications.
in the course of our meetings, mrs malmström, we have discussed on several occasions the need for more resources, more energy and more resources, not only for italy but for all the countries bordering on the mediterranean which are subject to these uncontrolled phenomena of irregular immigration.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that people who do not work and therefore do not integrate are victims of organised crime, live by expedients and unfortunately create a climate of insecurity throughout the country, to the detriment of honest people in particular and even immigrants who regularly pay taxes and work.
we needed eurosur, of course, the operational arm of frontex, and we trust that in this respect there is great responsibility and great solidarity on the part of the member states, because eurosur needed coordination with the member states and will need means, energy and resources.
i must say that the petitions on the environment were also very significant, some of which we have seen in this particular session, those on environmental impact assessment - we gave an opinion on the recasting of the directive - as well as those on extractive activities and shale gas.
as for the atmosphere and the climate within the committee, i said earlier in my speech that it is a special committee - a non-legislative committee - in which we mediate between the european institutions and the citizens.
− managing the production and use of pollutants through appropriate standards means enabling future generations to live in harmony with the natural environment, while maintaining consumption and welfare levels no lower than today's.
it is in this spirit that i voted in favour of this proposal to reduce the use of cadmium - a highly toxic and polluting substance - in portable batteries and accumulators, thereby alleviating the environmental impact of the production and disposal of these devices.
the commission intends to limit the derogation to the use of cadmium in portable batteries and accumulators for use in cordless power tools until 31 december 2015, the date chosen following an economic and environmental impact assessment.
in addition, it should be taken into account that cadmium can be 100% recycled and complete its cycle in batteries, thus significantly reducing the risks to the environment and human health.
environmental issues have also been very much in evidence, and i have to say that perhaps better results have been obtained.
firstly, to ms jordan, i have to correct the misinformation that the eu’s emissions are increasing.
in the commission, we can see that one driver for jobs – during the crisis year and also when we analyse the potential up to 2020 – would be for europe to address energy efficiency, as was mentioned, and also renewables.
we can see that these two sectors – and this includes handling of waste and recycling – have real potential to contribute to net job creation by 2020. also, macro-economically speaking, in europe – just to take one example – last year, in the crisis year of 2012, we spent almost eur 1 billion per day paying the bill for imported oil.
in fact, on thursday, a lot of donor countries will be meeting in denmark to discuss with the world bank, the oecd, the regional development banks and all their institutional investors what obstacles are currently standing in the way of seeing enough investment in low carbon transition, for instance in the developing world.
i am convinced that the restoration of the country's financial and social sustainability will also have a positive impact on the role kyrgyzstan plays in regional strategic stability.
finally, it will be essential to always have a considerate eye on the financial allocations in order to avoid unnecessary waste.
- i think it is right to refer to the regulation on shipments of hazardous waste from the eu to non-oecd countries in relation to ship recycling.
there are many hazardous materials on board and it is right to consider that any ship from the eu that is to be demolished is itself a hazardous waste.
in 2009, more than 90% of eu-flagged vessels were scrapped outside the oecd area, mainly in south asia (india, pakistan and bangladesh) using the so-called 'sanding' method which has significant environmental and health impacts.'
although i think the aim is laudable, i still have doubts about the potential effectiveness of the proposed measures, and i therefore believe that we should further review the commission's proposal, as there is a danger that it could legalise the export from the eu to developing countries of end-of-life vessels containing hazardous waste.
- we recall a book published by oxford university more than ten years ago, which clearly outlined the links between the market economy, economic development, technological innovation in industrial applications and respect for the environment.
i agree with the opening statement of principle: i would add that tolerating sandblasting, in addition to being an unacceptable risk to health and the environment, is not good for the economy in the medium term and slows down industrial development.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment.
i agree with the environmental objectives, and i think that the more economically advanced countries should set a good example, but self-harm is another story.
this practice poses serious risks to workers' health and the environment, but it helps to keep costs down.
− attention to environmental problems and the resulting damage to the ecosystem and human health have always been topics on the european parliament's agenda.
that is why we are supporting today mr schlyter's proposal, which makes essential changes to the commission's earlier proposal in order to deal with this environmental emergency.
this will limit the dispersion of hazardous materials and will be beneficial for both man and the environment.
finally, we fully agree on the inclusion of criminal sanctions for illegal waste shipment.
the eu regulation on shipment of waste prohibits the transfer of hazardous waste from european countries to non-oecd countries.
such activity has a negative impact on both the environment and human health.
he therefore proposed that the penalties provided for in directive 2008/99/ec should apply not only to cases of illegal waste shipment but also to cases of improper recycling.
some countries such as india, bangladesh and pakistan have become the preferred destination for the demolition of european ships, because in these places there is no respect for environmental rules or for workers' rights, and this obviously represents a significant, if unfortunate, cost reduction.
the ships to be scrapped are truly special and often very dangerous waste: it goes without saying that there are some minimum rules to be followed.
at the end of their useful life, most large merchant ships for maritime navigation are dismantled in plants using methods that have a significant impact on the environment and health.
under the waste shipment regulation, ships flying the flag of an eu country and intended for scrapping are classified as hazardous waste because they contain hazardous substances.
it is therefore high time that this parliament took a firm stand on the issue of sustainable ship disposal and recycling.
− the export of hazardous waste from the eu to non-oecd countries is prohibited by the eu waste shipment regulation, which implements the ‘ban amendmentʼ at european level.
however, more than 90 % of eu-flagged ships were indeed dismantled outside the oecd, mostly in southern asia, with significant environmental and health impacts, as estimated by the commission in 2009. the negative impacts of the recycling of eu-flagged ships, especially in southern asia, need to be reduced therefore without creating unnecessary economic burdens.
ending the widespread practice of scrapping community-flagged vessels off the coasts of developing countries is a goal of crucial importance for workers' health, safety and the environment.
in future, eu-registered ships will have to be dismantled in eu-approved permanent recycling facilities, which will have to respect the environment and meet certain safety requirements.
i can only express my favourable opinion of a report which does not impose an unnecessary economic burden on italy and, more importantly, which prohibits the practice of demolishing ships which offends human dignity and destroys the surrounding environment.
- i voted in favour because any ship from the eu that is to be scrapped is a hazardous waste and therefore must be legally scrapped only in oecd countries at the moment.
unlike in recent years, they are being brought as close as possible to a beach at high tide and are usually dumped on muddy expanses in the intercoastal zone of non-oecd countries, which dispose of the materials incorrectly and pollute the environment.
the current legislation on ship specifications is very inadequate, it is difficult to determine when a ship becomes waste.
ships flying the flag of an eu country are no longer covered by the waste shipment regulation but must be allowed to be scrapped at the facilities on the list.
knowledge of and availability of statistical data is a key element of competitiveness in the current 'information age': the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which is essential for the development of targeted economic and social policies and crucial for guiding business and investment choices.
- i express my deep concern at the human rights situation in the sahel region, which is aggravated by political, social, economic and environmental crises.
for this reason the eu should have a strong political commitment to promoting an enabling environment for civil society organisations at national level as well as at regional and international levels.
in a changing global context characterised by significant economic, political and social challenges, i believe the union should focus more on creating accountable, transparent and inclusive relationships between partner governments, civil society organisations and local authorities in order to achieve optimal outcomes in terms of sustainable development.
the european institutions must help create a favourable environment for the establishment of transparent and inclusive relations between partner governments, civil society organisations and local authorities, especially in countries where democratic institutions are going through a period of fragility.
we therefore agree that the european union should make a greater commitment to sustainable development, because it is vital to put citizens at the centre of policies to improve the quality of life.
the union has a strong political commitment to promoting a favourable environment for civil society organisations (csos) at national, regional and international level, and recognises that an emancipated civil society, in its diversity, is an important factor in itself, an essential and integral part of any democracy.
developing responsible, human rights-based relations offers a unique opportunity for the eu, including citizens, local authorities and the private sector, to establish sustainable partnerships with developing countries.
− creating more accountable, transparent, human-rights based and inclusive relations is consistent with the eu’s long-term strategy to achieve more sustainable development outcomes.
according to the report, the eu should support a monitoring mechanism in terms of enabling environment, particularly on policy and regulatory provisions, as well as multi-stakeholder dialogues.
we know that in september 2012 the commission published the communication 'the roots of democracy and sustainable development, europe's engagement with civil society in external relations' and in may 2013 the communication 'empowering local authorities in partner countries for better governance and more tangible development outcomes', which set out the new framework for the union's cooperation with civil society organisations and local authorities in a changing global context, characterised by significant economic, political and social challenges.
i agree with the rapporteur that the union must increasingly work towards responsible, transparent and democratically-based relations between partner governments, civil society organisations and local authorities in order to achieve better results in terms of sustainable development.
democratic ownership also promotes the active role of civil society and local authorities in policy-making and implementation processes, and the eu must increasingly engage in responsible, transparent, human rights-based and inclusive relationships between partner governments, civil society organisations and local authorities in order to achieve better outcomes in terms of sustainable development.
i therefore vote in favour of the eu promoting a favourable environment by paying particular attention to strengthening capacity building for local authorities and civil society organisations in fragile states, their partnership and cooperation with the eu in the development of democracy.
the rapporteur believes that the union must increasingly commit itself to creating responsible, transparent, human rights-based and inclusive relations between partner governments, civil society organisations and local authorities in order to achieve better results in terms of sustainable development: the eu should therefore give priority to initiatives to promote 'accountability partnerships' at national level between civil society organisations, parliaments and courts of auditors.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the need for a higher level of funding therefore arises because predictable and adequate funding is a key prerequisite for ensuring sustainable reforms of the justice system.
i am voting in favour of these measures because they are the means of achieving more sustainable results in improving the preparation of these countries for accession and, where possible, by promoting the sectoral approach in order to support the wide-ranging reform strategies of the beneficiary countries.
the scale of this attack, also from a cultural perspective, should not be underestimated: the presence of organised fraud in a key area of our economies, such as advertising in the ict sector, is a powerful contributor to creating a climate of distrust in business relationships and in the ability of institutions, all together, to maintain that indispensable legal framework in our societies.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful organisms.
we hope that the commission will publish this report by the end of 2013. as regards the content of the report, as the s&d group's shadow rapporteur, i can only congratulate myself on the inclusion in the text of some important proposals which we strongly wanted and supported, such as the common definition of organised crime and corruption, the harmonisation of criminal law on money laundering, the abolition of banking secrecy, the recognition at european level of the crime of mafia-style association, transparency in public procurement and, in particular, the creation of a blacklist of companies involved in corruption and organised crime, the rapid establishment of the european public prosecutor, the possibility of reusing the assets confiscated from organised crime for social purposes, the request for ad hoc legislation for the protection of witnesses and victims of trafficking, the reliability of european parliament prosecutors or other persons convicted for organised crime, and the introduction of stringent environmental standards for the victims of organised crime, which should coincide with the establishment of the european day of remembrance for organised crime and the establishment of a european day of remembrance for victims of organized crime, and the introduction of this report.
it is therefore a waste of resources, which are valuable for new investment and economic recovery.
this is why i am encouraged about the recent ministerial conference on the role of women in the context of the union for the mediterranean, and about the other ministerial meetings that will soon take place, notably on energy and transport.
we have chosen as the main lines of our neighbourhood policy to build and consolidate healthy democracies in order to pursue sustainable economic growth, to define and extend the sphere of rights and to manage cross-border links.
in europe, some reforms are now indispensable and we cannot waste any more time.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the proposals for directives on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers.
the second scenario is the emergence on the world stage of countries that declare themselves democratic - china, russia - and that use their economic, financial and energy strength to influence the new geopolitical framework and to fill the spaces that are becoming free.
it was a message about the protection of the arctic environment.
i would like to say that in the commission we are very much aware, and are at the forefront, of global efforts to tackle environmental pressures on the arctic such as climate change and contaminants.
we are doing so, for instance, through the implementation of the new minamata convention on mercury, which i co-signed just 14 days ago with the lithuanian environment minister.
much of that goes into environment and climate issues.
dg environment is funding a pilot project to establish an arctic ngo forum to provide a platform for ngos engaged on arctic environment issues, in which greenpeace is a participant.
the eu is actively participating in several arctic council working groups and projects to address environmental problems and promote sustainability in the arctic.
it is also participating in the climate and clean air coalition, which is addressing the issue of black carbon and other short-lived climate forces affecting the arctic.
finally, i will just mention the seventh environmental action programme, which we will be discussing later today.
this includes a commitment that the eu will give greater emphasis to the arctic region and recognises the need for intensified cooperation and increased union involvement to address new and shared environmental challenges in the region.
the agenda includes the report by thomas ulmer, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a council directive laying down basic safety standards for the protection against the dangers arising from exposure to ionising radiation (com (2012) 0242 - c7-0151/2012 - 2011/0254 (nle)).
the agenda includes the report by mr gaston franco, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on a general programme of union action in the field of the environment up to 2020 'living well, within the limits of our planet' (com ((2012) 0710 c7-0392/2012 2012/0337 ((cod)).
− madam president, it has been almost a year since the commission adopted its proposal for a new european union environmental action programme.
this house, as well as the council, has repeatedly called on the commission to propose a successor to the sixth environmental action programme, which expired this year.
from the beginning, there was wide agreement on the environmental challenges we face, their importance for the economy and the priorities that should guide our efforts to tackle them.
the political agreement reached in june sends a clear signal that the european union and its member states support a strong and smart environmental policy in europe as a key condition for healthy living and a competitive, resource-efficient and low-carbon economy.
the programme itself is a joint commitment of the union institutions and the member states to deliver the benefits of environmental action to people and businesses all over europe.
tomorrow’s growth will depend on making resource efficiency, natural capital and low-carbon technologies a much more central part of our economic policy.
our competitiveness depends on eliminating waste and cutting costs, and moving away from an economic model based on extraction, production, consumption and throwing away.
our well-being depends on further measures to cut the considerable risks to the health of our citizens from increasing exposure to air pollution and toxic substances.
i am therefore encouraged to see that the outcome of the negotiations between parliament and the council sets out a number of important objectives and targets to be achieved by 2020, for instance that we have to step up our efforts to implement the european union biodiversity strategy.
we also commit to discussing and agreeing on a strategy for a non-toxic environment and to addressing the combination effects of chemicals and safety concerns related to endocrine disruptors and nanomaterials.
under the programme, member states should work towards integrating environmental considerations, including water protection and biodiversity conservation, into land-use planning decisions.
the european parliament and the council agree on the need to define our climate and energy targets for 2030, taking into account the indicative milestones set out in the low-carbon economy roadmap to 2050. finally, the seventh eap provides an ambitious framework for taking our work forward on the rio+20 follow-up.
we now need to start elaborating on the eu position for goals and targets for poverty eradication and sustainable development beyond 2015. implementation is a cornerstone and a supporting theme of the seventh eap.
we will work closely with the member states so that each of us faces up to our respective responsibilities to deliver the environmental outcomes agreed as part of this programme.
the new environmental action programme provides the medium-term framework for eu institutions and member states to join forces and implement the vision that we have defined.
only by working together at all levels will we be able to deliver the improvements in the environment, the economy and society that we need to continue living well, within the limits of the planet.
i would like to close by thanking and congratulating the rapporteur, mr franco, the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for all their work on and dedication to this file.
the seventh environmental action programme sets out a set of possible long-term policies to tackle the major environmental challenges, which can only be addressed through coordinated implementation of sectoral environmental policies, as indicated in the agreement we will be voting on tomorrow.
only then can we begin the transition to a low-carbon, resource-efficient society, while safeguarding the health and well-being of its citizens.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy.
the fight against climate change must continue to be an integral part of european action, and so we must continue along the path we have been following for some years now, namely the global approach in which all sectors of the economy must contribute in the perspective of achieving the ambitious 2050 targets, which provide for a reduction in emissions of 80 to 95 per cent compared to 1990. only strong and concerted internal action will enable the eu to play a leading role in the fight against climate change in an international context and to push for binding action involving global partners.
the general programme of action of the european union on the environment up to 2020 is particularly important in characterising the necessary qualitative leap forward in european policies on the subject.
investment is needed to support genuine green growth and policies for land redevelopment, sustainable innovation through genuine incentive policies for good enterprises, which will also produce employment benefits.
protected areas ensure the conservation of biodiversity, protect water and limit the artificial waterproofing of the soil, which has made our earth more vulnerable to climate change and natural disasters, and is a potentially serious risk factor for the environment, the economy, society and the health of citizens.
mechanisms should therefore be identified to reverse the current trend, by rewarding local authorities that build less with more funding and by obliging them to provide for the rehabilitation of existing buildings and decommissioned areas with bio-architecture techniques before authorization is granted for new construction for both energy containment and the elimination of toxic materials, such as asbestos and others, and those harmful materials that are present in old buildings.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the seventh environmental action programme is very important for the reasons which my colleagues have explained to you.
one of these is respect for the individual and collective rights of people, who must work with all the dignity that the activity carried out must contain; another is the respect of the environment.
we cannot imagine our future being tied to the destruction of environmental heritage simply to gain space in terms of competition in the short term.
that is why any action to improve the environment and to respect the extraordinary heritage we have inherited is useful not only for today but even more so for tomorrow, because we can and must compete only in that way, to the exclusion of the other.
− madam president, we are reaching the end of the long and winding road of the seventh environmental action programme and sending it on an even longer journey.
regarding energy and climate and the plans until 2030, the commission, as you know, is actively working on the proposal with the aim of its being presented by the end of this year.
but it is important that we agree among ourselves whether we mean seriously to do the things to which we have committed in the seventh environmental programme which we are discussing today.
we are very much import-dependent when it comes to energy, and also rare earths: just take a periodic table and i will show you how much of that we import from various countries.
taking all that into account, if we are really serious about keeping industry in europe, we have to focus on producing products using less energy, less water, fewer raw materials, and re-using and recycling them, which is basically what we are proposing in the programme which is in front of us.
in the next year i will be focusing with all my energy precisely on the green economy and the question of how we can help re-make some of the potential which we still have in europe.
so i will be dealing a lot with waste, proposing and reviewing the waste targets, aligning all those waste targets precisely with the policy which we are discussing today in the orientations of the seventh environmental action plan, talking there about targets and indicators which are necessary, and also addressing specifically food waste, plastic waste, building waste and, basically, trying to make that proposal.
to call this into question is to mortify the most important asset on which european production is based, namely the richness of territorial biodiversity.
this is just one example, but if you want, commissioner, i can send you an e-mail listing the waste that you should be taking action on instead of making your citizens pay for your mistakes.
- i reiterate today my firm position on cutting costs and waste in connection with the dual headquarters in brussels and strasbourg.
the estimated costs for the dual headquarters amount to approximately eur 180 million with co2 emissions between 11,000 and 19,000 tonnes per year.
i therefore welcome the position recently expressed in the afco committee: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment.
it is time to reconsider this waste of unexplained resources, especially in a time of crisis, by starting a process of revision of the treaties.
- i welcome this motion for a resolution by the committee on budgets for the financial year 2014. i would like to stress the importance of the vote in favour of paragraph 90, a clear statement against the double-seat parliament, which is a waste of taxpayers' money and time.
moreover, the dual location also has an environmental impact, undermining europe's climate objectives and credibility.
the european commission has been promoting a number of initiatives to stimulate technological innovation, sustainable use of resources, competitiveness and job creation in the 'blue economy'.
− marine knowledge is key to promoting, developing and expanding the 'blue economy', which is the maritime component of the 'europe 2020' strategy, combining knowledge and technological innovation, sustainable use of resources, competitiveness and job creation for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
this forms part of the action to meet the targets of the europe 2020 strategy, particularly in combining knowledge and technological innovation, sustainable use of resources, competitiveness and job creation to achieve smart, sustainable, and inclusive growth in the marine and fisheries sector.
it is important, also in the wake of the commission green paper 'oceanographic knowledge 2020: from seabed mapping to oceanographic forecasting', to contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy objectives for the sea, by combining knowledge and technological innovation, sustainable use of resources, competitiveness and job creation for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the blue economy is a global business model dedicated to the creation of a sustainable ecosystem, whose main objective is sustainable development, a form of development that does not hinder the growth possibilities of future generations, while taking care of the heritage and natural reserves that are exhaustible.
it is not a question of blocking growth, but of economic growth which respects the environment and its limits.
it will be an integral part of the 'europe 2020 strategy' as regards the sea, combining knowledge and technological innovation, sustainable use of resources, competitiveness and job creation for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the transition to sustainability requires a radical change in the way we fish: the fund will provide operators with the necessary incentives to reduce the impact of their activities on marine ecosystems, to end the overexploitation of resources and to halt the decline of fish stocks, priorities which are not secondary to the economic importance of the fisheries sector in europe.
finally, by strengthening scientific knowledge, using in-depth data and analysis and in constant dialogue with representatives of the sector, this resolution aims at a more effective common fisheries policy, protecting marine biodiversity and the workers in this sector.
the reduction must not be achieved by reducing the number of vessels, but by more stringent controls on compliance with the ceilings on fishing quantities and by a policy of renewal and modernisation of the fleet and replacement of engines, which will ensure that vessels are more energy-efficient, more selective and less powerful.
on the other hand, efforts have been made to ensure the sustainability and profitability of fishing activities by supporting diversification, vocational training and the entry of young people into the fisheries sector and the development of aquaculture.
the role of the emff should be to encourage the creation of enterprises in the fisheries sector and to support, in particular, the competitiveness and sustainability of small-scale and coastal fisheries, which are so important for the vitality of coastal areas.
the aim is to provide effective support for the implementation of the new common fisheries policy: for an environmentally sustainable fisheries with the introduction of conservation measures such as biological rest periods or temporary stops and the freezing of subsidies for member states which do not comply with the rules of the common fisheries policy.
the current proposal for a regulation on the european maritime and fisheries fund aims to achieve the objectives of the reforms of the common fisheries and maritime policy on the basis of the following objectives, redefined in terms of funding: promote sustainable and competitive fisheries and aquaculture; to promote the development and implementation of the union's integrated maritime policy in a complementary manner to cohesion policy and the cfp; promote balanced and inclusive territorial development of areas where fishing activities are carried out (including aquaculture and inland fishing); contribute to the implementation of the common fisheries policy.
− the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) will provide funds for structural aid to the maritime sector and fisheries under the new multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the objective of the fund is obviously growth, employment, sustainability, modernisation of structures, and enhancement of the marine and coastal environment.
it will now be possible to improve the safety and working conditions of fishermen by adopting a new sustainable fishing model that will enable fishermen to live off the profits of their profession.
while strict control of fishing activities can lead to sustainable environmental and social management.
- i express my general appreciation and a declaration of support for the resolution tabled by a number of colleagues in the committee on the environment.
the objective to be achieved is certainly that of a single, comprehensive and binding international agreement on the fight against climate change for the post-kyoto period and to overcome the current difficulties; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i also think it is important that the eu confirms and reinforces its leadership on this issue by setting ambitious targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions within ambitious time limits, by urging international partners to embrace a virtuous logic and by demonstrating how ambitious climate change mitigation targets can be combined with competitiveness, innovation and job protection.
- in view of the forthcoming un climate conference in warsaw, i voted in favour of this resolution which underlines some key points in the fight against climate change.
the challenges related to climate change prevention, mitigation and adaptation remain multiple.
however, these challenges can only be addressed through an integrated approach, which puts climate-related issues in the context of sustainable development, industrial policy and energy policy.
in this respect, the eu needs to focus its efforts and establish an effective regulatory framework so that climate-related innovation in the industrial and energy sectors translates into a comparative advantage for the eu, putting it at the forefront of the global market for energy-related goods and services (a market with strong growth prospects).
finally, it is important that the eu maintains a proactive role in the course of future international climate negotiations: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
− the united nations framework convention on climate change, which calls for the adoption of a legally binding global climate agreement by 2015 and its implementation by 2020, provides for the organisation of annual conferences between stakeholders, cop, to assess progress and gradually set new targets.
the report raises several critical points: the commission has also been working on a new strategy to reduce emissions from the transport sector, which is based on the principle of sustainable development.
another key issue is the financing of emission reduction programmes: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the green paper to include the environment, climate change, energy and transport.
the european union must take a strong stance if it does not want its policies to tackle emissions to be an isolated effort.
− climate change is an urgent and potentially irreversible threat to human societies, biodiversity and the planet and is therefore a problem that must be addressed at international level by all parties; the doha climate gateway highlights with grave concern the significant gap between the aggregated effect of the parties' current commitments to reduce annual global greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 and the aggregated emission pathways that need to be followed to ensure that the increase in the planet's average annual surface temperature does not exceed 2 °c.
the important work to be done by the ad hoc working group on the durban platform for enhanced action to establish the principles and framework for the new global climate agreement and the means to achieve it in time for cop 21 in paris in 2015 will need to be based on the ipcc fifth assessment report, due by 2014. the 2015 agreement should focus on the objective of reducing global emissions to below 1990 levels by 2030, with a view to phasing out global carbon emissions by 2050.
in writing.
− climate change is an urgent and potentially irreversible threat to human societies, biodiversity and the planet and is therefore a problem that must be addressed internationally by all parties.
i believe that the eu delegation plays an essential role in the climate change negotiations and therefore find it unacceptable that members of the european parliament have not been able to attend the eu coordination meetings during the previous conferences of the parties.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
these include the introduction of a common definition of criminal phenomena, the abolition of banking secrecy, the elimination of tax havens, the promotion of the confiscation of criminal assets, the establishment of the offence of illegal manipulation of sports, the introduction of appropriate sanctions for cybercrime, the strengthening of the fight against environmental crimes, drug trafficking and human trafficking, the ensuring of rapid mutual recognition of judicial measures and the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office.
the objectives to be pursued: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the protection of the financial interests of the union; the fight against the proceeds and assets of criminal activities; an efficient and corruption-free public administration; more responsible politics; a more credible judiciary; a healthier business environment; a more transparent banking system and professions.
− the resolution by mr panzeri and mr saryusz-wolski is a useful insight into the effectiveness of the neighbourhood policy and provides important insights into making the necessary adjustments to the european strategy in the 16 countries neighbouring the eu, with which we have been cooperating for almost a decade now on the basis of a mutual commitment to respect for common values such as democracy, the protection of human rights, the recognition of the rule of law, good governance, a market economy and sustainable development.
in europe, certain reforms are now indispensable and we cannot waste any more time.
two things must be done: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
- i welcome this report, much has been done in recent years to respond to the pressing challenges posed by the financial sector and sovereign debt crisis, with the aim of paving the way for a return to sustainable growth and employment, despite the many uncertainties in financial markets.
− in the current difficult economic environment, the promotion of environmental protection policies may seem to be a secondary objective, if not an obstacle to growth and competitiveness.
environmental action, of course, sometimes involves very high costs, but it also creates benefits that neither public finance nor private investors can ignore.
in this light, we need environmental policies that provide a clear and transparent legal framework that enables economic operators to reap these benefits, thereby becoming true catalysts of 'eco-innovation', generating efficiency, competitiveness, growth and jobs, with cross-cutting benefits across many industrial sectors.
the seventh environment action programme (eap), by integrating the objectives of environmental policy with all the other sectoral policies of the european union, is geared in this direction and has therefore found my favourable vote.
growth and competitiveness on the one hand and environmental protection on the other can no longer travel on separate tracks.
we owe it to future generations, to our children, who, like us, claim the right to live in harmony with the natural environment while maintaining future levels of consumption and well-being no lower than today's.
- i don't think there are people in this room who don't care about the environment: we all live on the same planet, and i believe that we all want to protect it.
but what sets me apart from the environmental fundamentalists is that i have a broader vision, open to multiple perspectives: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and it is not enough to simply assess environmental measures without taking due account of the possible impacts they may have on everything around them, starting with the economic and social sphere.
there is another question to consider: the european union is a very important player on the world stage, and i wonder why it is not able to impose minimum environmental standards on its external partners, starting with the new giants in the making, china for example.
if we really care about the environment, we must make this principle of defence, protection and exploitation apply everywhere: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in the community.
the european parliament, in plenary session, voted this morning on a report by mr franco on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on a general union action programme on the environment up to 2020. in the current context of economic crisis and austerity, focusing on environmental policies can be perceived as an obstacle to economic growth and employment.
overcoming this dualistic vision and moving towards an approach that effectively combines environmental and economic concerns is the union's key challenge, which is to promote the principles of sustainable development, 'smart' consumption and 'green' growth in the action programme.
this requires a great deal of legislative and policy effort, from the development of adequate, coherent and scientifically sound environmental legislation to the creation of international environmental governance, in which the union is the guide and reference point not only for third countries and member states but also for community citizens, to whom educational and information initiatives are addressed to strengthen their commitment to the environment.
for these reasons, i cannot deny my support for a resolution which seeks to reconcile the complex relationship between economic activities and environmental protection.
this agreement is an important step towards achieving resource-efficient economies and reducing carbon emissions: an economy that protects and enhances our natural capital, protects the health and well-being of our citizens and thereby enhances the contribution of environmental policy.
with this action plan, parliament is sending a strong message that it is committed to reconciling economic and environmental policies by promoting concrete commitments to maintain a european economy that is truly competitive in the world.
the programme outlined in this report sets out a general framework for environmental policy up to 2020, identifying nine priority objectives, the most sensitive of which are: the definition of binding emission reduction and energy efficiency targets, which will have to be thoroughly analysed in terms of impact on competitiveness; the development of a legislative plan to address soil quality problems that directly affect the agricultural sector; and reduction of harmful subsidies for renewable energy.
i voted in favour of the seventh environmental action programme because it can serve as an important environmental manifesto in the european union for its citizens and the rest of the world, but also as a founding act for a european green new deal until 2020, capable of generating greener growth.
to be accepted and applied more effectively, european environmental legislation must be based on sound scientific knowledge, aim for greater coherence and simplification, but must also respect the principles of smart regulation, based on impact assessment.
the monitoring of the implementation of this legislation must be stepped up with determination throughout the european union, by strengthening national environmental inspection systems, involving more local and regional authorities and providing community support where necessary.
in conclusion, environmental concern is a matter of responsibility for the eu, for third countries, but also and above all for individuals.
− the new general environment action programme, which sets out a general framework for environmental policy up to 2020 and identifies its priority objectives, aims to foster the transition to a resource-efficient and low-carbon economy, to protect and enhance natural capital and to safeguard the health and well-being of european citizens.
− the global financial crisis and the growing emergence of new emerging economies pose important political, economic, social, cultural and environmental challenges: collective and united action at union level and the forging of alliances to promote and maintain peace, security, social progress, prosperity, cultural diversity, as well as democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights are therefore necessary to address these challenges.
at the same time, foreign policy must be flexible in responding to emerging threats and challenges in areas such as health, energy, climate change and access to water, each of which can have an impact on political priorities and the international economy.
a balance between these two aspects is strongly desired by parliament, in the name of the dual nature of culture, which is an intrinsic value but also an economic sector, without which growth will be neither intelligent, nor inclusive, nor sustainable.
the infrastructure plan in the transport sector – like the energy plan, and the telecommunications plan still under discussion – will improve infrastructure planning and preparation.
in the field of energy, financial assistance under the cef will continue to support studies and, for the first time, will make a concrete difference in enabling highly-beneficial electricity transmission lines, gas pipelines, liquid natural gas terminals and energy storage facilities that could not otherwise be built to go ahead.
the financial support under the cef will complement the measures on accelerated permission procedures and regulatory solutions provided under the new ten-e guidelines to speed up energy infrastructure development, allowing the union to reap the full benefit of market integration and ensure high standards of supply security while making the energy system more sustainable.
despite difficult discussions on financial instruments, and especially on project bonds, we now have the tools necessary to build an environment conducive to private investment and to develop instruments that will be attractive for specialised infrastructure investors.
after the european energy programme for recovery, which dedicated eur 2.4 billion to energy infrastructure, the cef now clearly triples the budget for energy transmission projects.
in addition, the possibility of developing and using innovative financial instruments in the field of energy infrastructure projects will make the spending even more efficient and the financial leverage even greater.
we must now carry out a serious and demanding programme of work with the states, which will have to comply by submitting sustainable and shared projects to make a real integrated and multimodal network a reality.
the connecting europe facility is the strategic instrument of the 2014-2020 financial programming in the field of energy, telecommunications and trans-european transport networks, which, through the corridors, have created great expectations, also in the south of my country, for the modernisation of rail networks and for finally launching high speed.
to compensate for the reduction in financial resources, the compromise text provides for an improved use of financial instruments in the energy sector by at least 20-30% with the expectation, given the expected lower use by the transport and telecommunications sectors, to reach about 50% of the available allocation.
the position of the european parliament was followed, which called for greater attention to be paid to projects to reduce energy islands and for at least 75% of resources to be allocated to electricity infrastructure.
the cef should also include a framework for prioritising investments in electricity infrastructure and smart grids, demonstrating the union's commitment to the continuity of the objectives of european energy and climate policy.
the new mff is balanced, robust and sustainable.
− after lengthy negotiations between the council, parliament and the commission, an agreement was finally reached on the adoption of the budget for the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the vote just taken underlines how the eu is working on the problems of employment, growth, sustainable development, cohesion and solidarity.
a review of the multiannual financial plan is also planned, to be held in 2016 at the latest, to allow the new parliament to adapt it to the changing economic environment.
i think it is right to use the european globalisation adjustment fund to give practical help to those important economic operators who are struggling to survive and continue to operate in such a changed economic environment and to continue to feed national markets which are suffering more than others from the effects of a crisis which has yet to be overcome.
), increased security (excluding from the agreement undertakings found guilty of serious crimes) and greater environmental protection.
for the citizens of these countries, public procurement is a key instrument for stimulating employment, economic activity and promoting high standards of environmental protection and decent working conditions.
if the union is to become a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy, it must first ensure that europe's young people have the best training conditions for acquiring high-value-added skills and knowledge, which are crucial for young people's employability.
the erasmus experience takes on the meaning of an open worksite, in which a common culture is built from below: the european commission has recently published a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment.
the most interesting news is that of sports: the commission will also be able to use the financial resources of the european union to support the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and sustainable development.
finally, europe will be able to invest even more in culture, with the aim of stimulating smart, inclusive and sustainable growth, but above all capable of facing increasing foreign competition.
create new and sustainable jobs and increase the attractiveness of european regions, cities and rural communities, with a view to social and territorial cohesion.
this requires transforming the european union into a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy with high levels of employment and productivity.
smart, inclusive and sustainable growth for cultural and creative enterprises with a fund of eur 1.4 billion.
in order to strengthen the roots and the future of the european unity, it is necessary to promote creativity and culture in the context of the core values of the european union, including pluralism, democracy, innovation, social inclusion, sustainable development, etc., which requires sufficient financial capacity.
i voted in favour of the report because i believe in the importance of boosting european cultural investment, an area of utmost importance for smart, inclusive and sustainable european growth.
- i did not vote in favour of the report on the 'europe for citizens' programme, which i consider a waste of public money, aimed at the union's self-celebration.
i am voting against the report because i think it is a waste of money to use funds for pro-eu self-celebration.
− as the economic and financial crisis continues, the pursuit of the economic and social process warrants both the improvement of the competitiveness of the economy in europe and the return to sustainable and inclusive growth.
in particular, in the energy sector, investment shortfalls are estimated at around eur 200 billion, while delays in completing the internal market are the main obstacles to achieving the objectives set by the europe 2020 strategy.
in this context, i welcome the regulation establishing a mechanism linking europe which makes a decisive contribution to the objective of growth and competitiveness in the transport, energy and communications sectors.
it provides the member states with effective transport, energy and telecommunications systems which contribute to the integrated functioning of the union.
i believe, however, that only transparent and simplified management can enable the connecting europe facility to achieve the maximum efficiency of european funding for transport, energy and telecommunications projects.
the cef will finance three types of european infrastructure: transport, energy and telecommunications, which are the basic sectors of the european single market.
the cef provides for significant investments in modern, durable and effective mechanisms and infrastructure, which are essential for achieving the europe 2020 objectives and sustainable economic growth.
by focusing on digital networks, intelligent, sustainable and interconnected transport networks, it will make a major contribution to the completion of the european single market.
the report will insist on funding in particular energy isolation projects, the elimination of bottlenecks towards the completion of the internal energy market and the deployment of the world's fastest broadband by 2020.
in writing.
- this proposal for a regulation is one of the best answers to the anti-europeanists: the articulation of this mechanism is in fact a good compromise between the need to create infrastructure to restart the economy in europe, the need to identify priority areas in which to invest in times of crisis in order to be better prepared for a world which, in these years, continues to change, and the obligation to ensure the economic and environmental sustainability of our economic model.
the connecting europe facility (cef) programme will aim to accelerate financing for the completion of transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure, thereby improving the mobility of citizens, goods and services across the european union.
i too voted in favour of this as it is a means of supporting european infrastructure in the fields of transport, energy and telecommunications.
− the connecting europe facility seeks to establish integrated networks in the field of transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure throughout the european union.
integrating these networks and centralising the eu financing allocation will significantly reduce administrative costs and stimulate potential synergies between these fields, which contribute to economic growth and competitiveness, and this is consistent with our long-term strategy of pursuing sustainable, inclusive and balanced growth.
− this agreement will allow for accelerated financing to complete transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure in all member states.
today's decision is a far-sighted one that will be able to boost the continent's economy in the long term by modernising and expanding energy infrastructure and increasing security of supply.
− i voted in favour of this report because i believe that in order to achieve a more integrated and resource-efficient europe, the main obstacles to the completion of a single energy market must be removed and digital must be used as a tool for innovation and growth by supporting the world's fastest broadband by 2020.
in writing.
− the connecting europe facility will finance projects that complete the missing links of the networks in question and make the european economy greener, through the introduction of less polluting modes of transport, high-speed broadband connections and a wider use of renewable energy in line with the europe 2020 strategy.
in addition, financing energy networks will further integrate the internal energy market, reducing the eu's energy dependence and enhancing security of supply.
by focusing on smart, sustainable and fully interconnected transport, energy and digital networks, the connecting europe facility will help complete the european single market.
− the connecting europe facility (cef) aims to accelerate funding to complete the union's transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure and to define the guidelines for the development of the ten-t network.
the financial instrument will also allow the development of sustainable railways and the implementation of the so-called 'motorways of the sea', providing a very useful service for all member states.
it is also important for environmental sustainability because, together with other measures which parliament will be called upon to adopt concerning ports and the railway package, the nodes in the relations will make it possible to reduce pollution, especially in relation to the atmosphere, and thus improve the quality of life of european citizens.
but all this will only be possible if, in addition to environmental sustainability, we also care about social sustainability.
i therefore believe that more should be done, by launching a strategic environmental assessment that incorporates these measures into national, regional and local planning.
today, the ten-t remains a patchwork of national networks: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
i particularly welcome the choice of the legal instrument, the regulation, which leaves no room for differences in transposition but obliges all member states, at the same time and in the same way, to adapt to ensure the achievement of the objectives set, among which i particularly appreciated interoperability, the use of renewable fuels and intermodality.
they also have the specific objective of enabling sustainable and unhindered mobility of people and goods, improving accessibility to all regions of the european union.
finally, once all costs and benefits, including social and environmental ones, have been considered, it will be essential to ensure a positive contribution to the well-being of all citizens of the european union.
− the 1992 helsinki convention is an important instrument of cooperation between states aimed at preventing and controlling pollution of transboundary waterways and international lakes.
we are convinced that the establishment of a framework for bilateral and multilateral cooperation initiatives aimed at preventing and controlling pollution of transboundary watercourses and the rational use of water by the countries of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) is more necessary than ever.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the environment.
− the unece convention introduces a framework for bilateral or multilateral cooperation to prevent and control the pollution of transboundary watercourses and the rational use of water.
- the report by mr groote on the helsinki convention on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes, which aims to establish cooperation initiatives to prevent and control pollution of transboundary watercourses and to rationalise the use of water by the countries of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece), was discussed in the house today.
− i voted in favour of the remek report which proposes the adoption of an additional research programme for the iter (international thermonuclear experimental reactor) project 2014-2018, in order to demonstrate that fusion is a possible, safe, sustainable and economically viable future energy source for the eu.
− innovation in the development of innovative energy sources is essential to reduce dependence on fossil fuels, increase energy security and thus build a strong, competitive europe that is able to meet the important challenges of the future.
by signing the convention establishing the international fusion energy organisation iter (which includes the eu, japan, russia, the usa, china, the republic of korea and india), europe has committed itself to hosting and leading the construction of the iter (international thermonuclear experimental reactor) project.
this programme is intended to demonstrate the importance of nuclear energy as a possible source of safe, environmentally friendly and sustainable energy, and in this sense i believe that a global restructuring of the union's activities should be considered.
− we support the report on the adoption of an additional research programme to support the iter project, as it is a unique design on a global scale, as it emphasises the development of fusion energy as a credible alternative for commercial production of energy with zero greenhouse gas emissions.
nuclear fusion has the potential to make a significant contribution to the creation of a sustainable and secure energy supply in the coming decades.
developing the necessary technology would make it possible to produce energy in a cost-effective and environmentally friendly way; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's scientific and technological potential is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to provide scientific and technological assistance to the developing countries.
− the international thermonuclear experimental reactor (iter) is the largest tokamak ever constructed and an indispensable part of the next step on the road to fusion as a worldwide energy source.
nuclear fusion can be a much safer source of energy than fission, because there is no chain reaction involved.
- i voted in favour of the skinner report on the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community.
the text is very balanced and i believe that irrespective of whether a member state chooses to use nuclear energy or not, all member states can and should benefit from nuclear research and the european added value of the euratom framework.
the rapporteur rightly points out that whatever the energy policy decisions of individual member states, the union cannot afford to ignore the sector or to let the systems for advanced nuclear research and development be impoverished.
this specific regulation, in its relationship with the horizon 2020 framework programme, crosses two fundamental areas, namely applied research and energy planning.
the interdependence of these factors with the economic recovery is beyond question: if we look at the current recovery scenario in the united states, we will soon discover a direct link between the further increase in technology patents and the energy revolution brought about by the even politically counter-cultural assertion of shale gas and green coal production.
our programmes do not set out the ambition of becoming, like the united states today, a net exporter of energy, but there are certainly clear commitments on the composition of the energy mix and the prospect of energy security.
− the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community is part of the horizon 2020 package.
given that it is up to each individual member state to decide whether or not to use nuclear energy, i believe that in order to make an informed and conscious choice, everyone should benefit from the results of nuclear research and the european added value of the euratom framework.
individual member states will benefit as a part of the european union from nuclear research and the added european value of the euratom framework, even if they choose not to use nuclear as a source of energy.
the world suddenly became aware of the serious health risks associated with nuclear power, and numerous research programs were launched to make the use of this energy source safer.
that is why we are supporting the report on the proposal on nuclear safety today, because it is vital that the european atomic energy community is able to support it in third countries, eliminating the risks to the lives and health of the population.
specific objectives will need to be pursued, such as the promotion of a genuine nuclear safety culture and effective governance; the implementation of higher standards of nuclear safety and radiation protection; the responsible and safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste and, finally, the long-term impact on the environment.
− nuclear energy remains an important source of energy, whereas nuclear safety has been one of the major concerns across europe, involving nuclear safeguards not only in europe but also third countries.
as the proposal stressed the need to promote economic development and respect fully the highest safety standards in the production of nuclear energy in the meantime, i voted in favour of it.
the process of decommissioning is put at risk due to the lack of funding; it is necessary for the union to provide financial assistance and monitor the usage to avoid the potential social, environmental and economic problems.
eu financial assistance to complete the closure of obsolete nuclear power plants with inadequate safety standards responds to growing public concern about environmental issues, which all too often have the potential to negatively impact the health of citizens.
in the light of recent events in japan and given the geographical proximity of the slovak republic and bulgaria to our country (in this connection, it is worth recalling the chernobyl disaster, which is much further away from italy than the two countries mentioned), ensuring the safety of the nuclear installations of the three countries in question represents a financial burden which the union must assume, given the real environmental risks associated with the lack of support for nuclear decommissioning programmes.
for these reasons, i cannot help but support a resolution allocating some eur 900 million to prevent a potential environmental disaster which could also harm italian citizens.
i acknowledge that the early shutdown represented a social, environmental, economic and financial burden of exceptional scope, and i agree that the european union has committed itself to providing financial assistance until the end of 2013, both for the decommissioning of the reactors and as a contribution to dealing with the consequences of an early shutdown, preventing any environmental damage in advance.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
in a time of crisis like the present one we cannot afford to waste even a penny.
as mr boştinaru has already said, resources will be strongly directed towards smart sustainability, involving both the public and private sectors, and the multi-fund approach will also allow for the development of integrated actions, which will make it easier for us to achieve the europe 2020 objectives.
on the other hand, as regards the general rules which will be the inspiration for cohesion policy, i would like to reiterate my appreciation of the work done by the rapporteurs, who have made a major contribution to simplifying the rules, to multi-level partnership, to identifying the thematic areas and giving priority to small and mediumsized enterprises, employment, the environment, education and training.
mr president, beyond the numbers - all of which can be verified - it is clear that the current layout of the european institutions' premises is not rational and must be quickly abandoned for financial, environmental, economic and logistical reasons.
i have not been idle, however, but i have tabled a number of amendments in the committee on budgets and in the house to emphasize this waste.
that is the point of waste, not for us members.
we will do so with the same seriousness, determination and spirit that have animated us during these almost three years of negotiations on the cap: to give farmers and all european citizens a fairer, more sustainable agricultural policy that can meet the challenges of the future.
it should have been a greener cap, but in this time of great economic difficulty, in an age of great social change, the sustainability of choices cannot be only environmental, it must also be economic and social because without these two pieces, the first is not achievable.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european environment agency is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area.
in speaking today in the debate on the cap, i wanted to bring with me olive branches that i cut in my own land, because i want to express my vote today thinking of the many producers and farms that are striving to achieve quality, excellence and biodiversity in the many european territories and in southern italy in particular.
we should not waste a single euro, because it is all of our money, at a particularly difficult time: i am not sure that these are the best choices that we could have hoped for from the european union.
the increased thematic focus of investment will allow for a more concentrated use of resources and they are therefore convinced that the measures envisaged for post-2013 cohesion policy will be adequate to ensure a sustainable economic recovery.
some countries have reached critical figures: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which is to be published in the official journal of the european union.
i also believe that the integrated actions for sustainable urban development are strategic and far-sighted.
− i am particularly in favour of strengthening the urban dimension, with at least 5% of the european regional development fund resources allocated at national level under the investment for growth and jobs goal going directly to cities and urban areas for integrated actions for sustainable urban development.
however, we must remember that around 80% of co2 emissions are produced in urban areas and that only through strong involvement of local authorities will we be able to reduce these emissions and produce a tangible result in the fight against climate change.
the proposal provides for the erdf to support local and regional development over the period 2014-2020 by co-financing investments in the following areas: r&d and innovation, climate change and environment, support for smes, services of general economic interest, telecommunications, energy and transport infrastructure, health, education and social infrastructure, and sustainable urban development.
the regulation also provides that special attention should be paid to sustainable urban development, in particular by allocating at least 5% of erdf resources to this purpose.
in particular, the scope of support has been extended by introducing the eligibility of small-scale infrastructure for culture and sustainable tourism and allowing support for productive investments to be granted also in the case of large-scale enterprises.
another important aspect is that of the urban dimension and its sustainable development, which i consider to be of paramount importance because it is the best way of making the european project a reality at local level, that is, within reach of the citizen.
the objective is to contribute to the implementation of the eu 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
with the new regulation, which i supported with my vote in the house, the erdf will focus on research and innovation, information and communication technologies, smes and the promotion of a low-carbon economy, taking into account the level of development of the region.
i am very pleased with the success of the battle waged with the support of my group for the introduction of objectives such as sustainable tourism and the enhancement of the cultural and natural heritage, as part of a strategy for specific areas, which includes the conversion of declining industrial regions.
amendments were introduced to improve the distribution of erdf support in the next programming period, succeeding in extending it by introducing the eligibility of small-scale infrastructure for culture and sustainable tourism and allowing support for productive investments.
this is an important event in terms of improving coordination and strengthening synergies with the funds and their implementation, with a view to ensuring smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in line with the europe 2020 strategy.
the latter will contribute to the european union's europe 2020 goal of sustainable, smart and inclusive growth by providing financial contributions to member states whose per capita income is below 90% of the european average.
− as a part of the common strategic framework funds proposed by the commission, the cohesion fund serves as a financial source in supporting the shift towards a low-carbon economy, promoting resource efficiency and sustainability, enhancing institutional capacity and an efficient public administration, etc.
the investments will help enterprises promote energy efficiency and renewable energy projects to meet the requirements of the union’s environmental acquis and address the needs identified by the member states.
- i voted in favour of the cohesion fund because it will continue to be used to provide financial support for projects in the environmental sector and for trans-european networks in the field of transport infrastructure, ensuring a balance according to the investment and infrastructure needs of each member state.
support from the cohesion fund shall be subject to: to promote the transition to a low-carbon economy in all sectors, to promote climate change adaptation, risk prevention and management, to protect the environment and promote resource efficiency, to promote sustainable transport and to eliminate bottlenecks in key network infrastructures and to enhance institutional capacity and the efficiency of public administrations.
the scope of the cohesion fund has been extended to include support for energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy in the field of housing, as already provided for in public infrastructure and in businesses, and to allow the inclusion of support for district heating and high-efficiency cogeneration of heat and energy as investment priorities.
an important change concerns the companies to be eligible for support for energy efficiency and renewable energy projects.
in addition, an important agreement was reached in the water and waste sectors.
territorial cooperation in areas such as public transport, energy and water supply, health, education and vocational training will be facilitated and encouraged.
like my fellow rapporteurs, i therefore believe that the rules on direct payments must be amended in order to ensure a fairer distribution of aid and to promote environmental issues.
i think that encouraging rural development has two very desirable consequences: on the one hand, it allows the full potential of the agricultural sector to be unlocked, mainly because it makes it cheaper to abandon land and therefore increases competition, with the resulting efficiency gains; on the other hand, it is the environment as a whole that benefits from this package of regulations.
− decisions of farmers as main land managers on maintaining farming systems and practices have a strong collective impact on environmental issues of the european union such as climate change, and such impacts are externalities that are not reflected in the market price.
the commission proposed to promote a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products, supports sustainable production as well as encourages most efficient use of limited budgetary resources, therefore i voted in favour of this proposal.
it does so because, on the one hand, it is putting in place new and renewed instruments capable of providing answers to the major challenges that the european union will have to face in the coming years, such as the protection of the environment and biodiversity and the guarantee of food security, and, on the other hand, because it is seeking to promote a generational change in the sector, with ad hoc subsidies for young farmers who intend to undertake this activity.
i particularly agree with the political objectives and the way in which they have been put into practice: terms such as 'greening', 'decoupling' and others that will soon enter the daily lives of primary sector entrepreneurs, represent a clever way of responding to major environmental, economic, production and quality challenges.
and then there is strong support for young farmers to encourage the entry into the sector of young people who bring new energy and dynamism.
given that kiribati bases its economy on fishing, it is necessary that third countries with which it has fisheries partnership agreements implement a sustainable policy that respects the delicate balance of marine fauna.
i voted in favour of the following text: the fact that the european parliament has two seats is an unacceptable waste against which i am fighting and will always continue to fight.
- i voted in favour because the report envisages reducing the financial, environmental, organisational and logistical impact of the current relocation of the eu institutions.
the arguments in favour of a single seat for the ep include isolation from the other institutions, the cost of parliament's geographical dispersion, the environmental impact, the constitutional argument (the ep should have the right to determine its own organisation) and the support of citizens, as 1.27 million people have signed a petition calling for a single seat for the ep.
the maintenance of three sites has no plausible justification, especially after the great information campaign which has brought to light the environmental problems and the disproportionate costs involved in maintaining the current situation.
meps and staff members have multiple offices and have to travel between the two cities on a monthly basis, which costs significant loss of time in travelling, a large amount of emissions and a waste of european taxpayers’ money.
with co2 emissions associated with transfers to and from the three work sites estimated at between 11,000 and 19,000 tonnes.
i think the social challenges are very important for social innovation, which must go hand in hand with technological innovation, and also for the climate challenge.
the agenda includes, for joint debate, the report by jürgen creutzmann, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises (2014 2020) (com (2011) 0834 - c7-0463/2011 - 2011/0394 (cod)) (a7-0420/2012), and the question for oral answer to the commission 'entrepreneurship action plan 2020 - revitalising the entrepreneurial spirit in europe' by paul rübig, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000110/2013 - b7-0520/2013) (2013/2532 (prs)) '.
on the subject of efficiency, climate and the environment, i believe that cosme can help to improve quality and preparedness.
both are top priorities for our entrepreneurial realities, especially at local and regional level, as long-term competitiveness depends on real sustainability and cross-sectoral initiatives that benefit the benefit of as many smes as possible.
it is essential, for example, to revive the european economy and innovation by consolidating a vibrant and eco-sustainable economy, based on a rational and far-sighted exploitation of the available natural resources and contributing at the same time to the preservation of the environment and biodiversity, to be recognised as a real growth engine for europe.
of the many new features of the new life programme, i consider particularly central and crucial the priority given to the fight for the conservation of nature and biodiversity and the support for the natura 2000 sites, a veritable european treasure.
i also think it is important to provide for new investment in strategic areas such as health, energy, climate action research and biotechnology.
− strengthening competitiveness and restoring the european economy is the most important goal of the europe 2020 strategy; research and innovation is a major factor in promoting a knowledge economy that secures more balanced, diverse and sustainable growth.
the largest part of the programme, 26 billion, is earmarked for research in the areas most sensitive to citizens, such as health, energy, transport, the environment and food.
in order to recover from the multiple crises it is facing, europe needs to find a way to develop its capacity for innovation, aimed at developing sustainable and efficient solutions to societal challenges, such as those identified in horizon 2020, employment and value creation.
to date, three kics have been created, focusing on renewable energy, climate change and the information and communication society.
− i strongly supported the proposal for the cosme 2014 programme as it aims to strengthen the competitiveness and sustainability of european enterprises, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, to promote access to finance, to provide business support services, to encourage an entrepreneurial culture and to promote the creation and growth of smes.
the proposed regulation aims to establish a programme focusing on improving the competitiveness of smes, mainly through reducing administrative burden, providing better access to finance and markets, support for business transfers and incentives of sustainable competitiveness.
regarding the important role of smes in implementing the europe 2020 strategy and achieving the goals of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, i voted in favour of this proposal.
moreover, in the current economic climate it is essential to strengthen europe's industrial base.
− the fight against environmental degradation and climate change is one of the european union's top priorities.
despite the efforts made in environmental policy and the success of the life programme over the last 20 years, the eu still remains patchy and in many cases inadequate when it comes to the environment and climate.
the appropriateness of the life programme's budget would be a tangible sign of the european union's attention to environmental issues and a step forward in the search for practical solutions.
- i believe that the haug report analysing the environment and climate action programme is a text that deals in a systematic and balanced way with the implementation of these programmes at european level.
the life programme is a means of addressing the environmental and climate challenges of european citizens.
these ambitious and structured projects have been conceived in accordance with a comprehensive environmental approach and are based on the synergy between the community budget, national instruments and additional funds from the public and private sectors.
their main purpose is to support the implementation of environmental and climate policy by promoting a coordinated national and private sector mobilisation of the union countries towards nature, water, waste, air, climate change mitigation and adaptation objectives.
- i voted in favour of the environment and climate action programme (life).
the protection of the common environmental assets and the fight against climate change are two important priorities for the european union as a whole.
the union has already established very strict and effective environmental legislation over the years.
finally, i think it is important to give room to integrated projects which allow the granting of various european funds in a joint manner: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
− life has been a successful and effective programme addressing challenges related to environmental issues regarding its budget share.
it is reasonable to expand this programme to support the development of a sustainable, low-carbon, and resource-efficient economy in europe.
according to the proposed regulation, funding is to be devoted to increasing pooling of resources and expertise, providing the platform for development and exchange of best practices and knowledge-sharing, creating synergies across union funds and national funds, and increasing the visibility of environmental and climate action.
increased cooperation in the sector of customs is consistent with the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth by strengthening the single market and customs union.
− regarding the changing geopolitical environment, it is necessary to enhance the development of defence capabilities and strengthen europe’s defence industry.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you must thank parliament because if it had been for the council, this reform would probably not have been as sustainable as we helped it to be.
it is environmentally sustainable, it is economically sustainable and i believe it is also sustainable because of the role of parliament in the social field.
because, half an hour ago, we said that we had to have a sustainable policy and that we had to help the sea produce more.
our wide-ranging cooperation goes from regional stability and the environment to energy security and higher education.
the agenda includes the brief presentation of the franck proust report on cars 2020: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
the commercial impact that light vehicles can have vis-à-vis tomorrow’s energy challenges is very significant.
concerning r&d and access to finance, the european commission presented in 2013 a proposal for a european green vehicles initiative to co-finance research in the area of energy efficiency and alternative fuels.
it is about creating a culture of preparedness and prevention which we so much need for a future where inevitably, because of climate change, this is going to be one of more frequent and devastating disasters.
the committee on fisheries' report, which led to the negative vote, was particularly critical on three points: the economic aspect, which highlighted the low cost-benefit ratios due to the low use of fishing opportunities; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the moroccan fisheries sector is protected from the effects of the environmental aspect and, in the rapporteur's view, the financial contribution has had little impact on the moroccan fisheries sector.
in 2009, morocco launched the halieutis plan to ensure the sustainability of resources, the visibility of economic actors to foreign investors and to ensure that fishermen benefit from the benefits.
the protocol takes into account the european parliament resolution of 14 december 2011, improving environmental and economic sustainability.
the text introduces legal obligations to ensure the sustainable exploitation - and limited to surpluses - of fishery resources.
for these reasons, i believe that the protocol is an important signal of the eu's concrete commitment to a sustainable fisheries policy and represents an additional tool for monitoring compliance with international law.
sustainability is also highlighted in the protocol; therefore, i voted in favour of it.
to ensure the security of workers, the environment and society as a whole, i voted in favour of ratifying the convention concerning safety in the use of chemicals at work.
i have voted in favour of this convention, which i regard as an important instrument for the protection of workers, the environment and society as a whole.
the trade attitude of this country towards the eu production system, its persistence in an unfair trade policy of social and environmental dumping is damaging to our farms and cannot be supported in any way.
as a study by a group of independent experts has shown, eu agreements with côte d'ivoire have consistently proved to be mutually beneficial and balanced in a variety of economic, environmental and social aspects.
the partnership aims to tackle three specific problems: the eu-canada call to reduce greenhouse gas emissions; resolve the issue of the arctic council which, with the support of canada, has assigned the eu a role of observer only (and not a member of the forum); the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's citizens are not subject to the same restrictions as the citizens of the other member states.
it is important to ensure that all ccps have a default management strategy for all products, this being essential for the sustainable growth of the financial sector.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
− space policy is one of the areas where the eu has to decide what it wants to do when it grows up: we are competing with the big global players (not just the us, but also india and china) but we have less budget and less scope because we have excluded military applications, we aim for sustainable development based on commercial uses but in the meantime we fail to complete the investments that then allow us to sell services, and in the end we risk burning resources without ever seeing the returns.
the politecnico di milano observatory has estimated a 300 percent growth in users, which could exceed two billion by 2020. the benefits to businesses and to the growth of economies more generally are highlighted in the report and take various forms, from continuity to ease of access, from reduction of operating costs to energy savings.
- although the sedó i alabart report, which assesses the work of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec), is a text whose approach could initially be shared and positive, i decided to abstain because the risk that it would open the way to a further increase in waste of public resources is real.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after a long period of negotiations, we have finally voted today on a compromise text which must satisfy our parliament, because it has succeeded in achieving a fisheries policy which is environmentally, economically and socially sustainable.
in an environment and socioeconomic context totally different from that of the north seas or other marine areas where fish stocks and harvesting techniques are markedly different.
from 2014 we will finally be able to enjoy the result of negotiating fishing quotas that, first of all, achieve the objective of sustainability.
it is our task to stop destructive fishing practices, also remembering that marine ecosystems are interconnected, the negative impacts suffered by one ecosystem inevitably spill over to neighbouring ones.
protecting the biodiversity of our marine ecosystems by promoting sustainable fishing and curbing destructive fishing practices means promoting a social, economic and anthropological process and combining the needs of economic development with those of environmental protection.
this vote must be the catalyst for a new policy for sustainable fishing, which can contribute to the social, economic and cultural fabric of coastal communities, without impoverishing our invaluable biodiversity.
the number and gravity of natural and man-made disasters increased significantly in the past years, and climate change is expected to trigger even more extreme disasters in the future.
even more extreme disasters are expected in the future, mainly due to climate change.
- i voted in favour of this proposal by mrs gardini because it is necessary to revise the community system of civil protection, given the importance it plays in dealing with the effects of natural disasters, which have been increasing in recent years, also and especially because of climate change.
it is not surprising that both member states in a bilateral logic and individual private companies managing services of public importance (from energy to transport) have long since adopted transnational operational protocols for disaster management.
- i voted against this resolution because of its approach which, while it was motivated by environmental considerations which were partly to be shared, was also likely to cause further problems for the manufacturing sector in terms of energy supply.
- the european union is clearly ahead of other global players of comparable size in environmental policy.
the degree of development of the emissions market is only an indicator.
however, proposing to withdraw securities in order to artificially increase the price is a controversial operation for two reasons: the first is that it is built on a shaky foundation, because it cannot reasonably be assumed that there is a surplus of supply right now that, because of the crisis, polluting companies have less work and therefore produce less energy and therefore pollute less.
the second is that, precisely because we are in a time of crisis, it does not make much sense to add to the costs of european industries in general and italian industries in particular, which are already heavily burdened by an enormous taxation of labour compared to competitors and by a far higher cost of energy.
- it is inconceivable, given the economic crisis still affecting the european economy, to think of an increase in energy prices.
i think it is appropriate to remind the council that the amendments to the waste directive which we could discuss cannot be made through the so-called comitology but must follow the procedure laid down for all other legislative acts.
changing the criteria for defining recovered paper as 'waste' is a useful way to improve statistics, but should be discussed in the relevant bodies if changes are appropriate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against the report because it is time to put an end to it, which is a waste of public money with zero results.
at a time when the environmental factor is a major priority at the heart of car manufacturing, both in terms of vehicle emissions to air and in terms of consumption, given the constant rise in retail fuel prices.
- i voted in favour because the cars2020 report provides an important action plan for a sustainable and increasingly competitive european automotive industry.
the eu should focus on technological development, especially on improving the commercial viability of alternative energy sources.
the results of the initiatives taken during the year show how important it is to continue working in this direction so that volunteering is not just a celebration of a year in a strategic sector of the union, but the awareness that volunteering is a clear solution to the cultural, social, environmental and educational problems we face every day.
this is the only way to be credible, in urging all stakeholders in the political process in ukraine to ensure an inclusive and sustainable dialogue.
the commission is also proposing to adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
- it is sad to have to spend resources (time, energy and above all money) to combat counterfeiting, but it is also appropriate.
europe has a direct interest in maintaining political stability in this area, given the important trade flows and the international importance of the region for energy supplies.
at this particular moment, the conditions exist for the request made by armenia to turn into a fruitful and active cooperation in the cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific fields.
the protocol seeks to establish a framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of armenia in union programmes, allowing the european union to promote further cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links, as well as strengthening economic and political relations through the eastern partnership and the conclusion of the association agreement.
in the case of development aid, while the evangelical maxim 'let not the right hand know what the left hand is doing' is true, we must also say that we are all tightening our belts a little and cannot afford to waste resources in the management of such aid.
the new ifs has been strengthened compared to the past to take account of the increased complexity and fluidity of the international environment in the light of global threats to our security such as terrorism, organised crime and illicit trafficking.
- i do not consider the lambsdorff report as it has been developed and its future implementation to be sustainable, and for these reasons i voted against it.
in particular, there are still numerous anticompetitive practices by the private sector in the form of cartels between undertakings, but also by the public sector which, in strategic areas such as rail transport, telecommunications and energy, is struggling to open up and thus to liberalize in practice.
competition policy therefore needs to be modernised to reflect the specificities of a globalised environment.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
to ensure a stable future for the sector and to avoid the depopulation of rural areas, as well as negative economic and environmental consequences, action will need to be taken at european level.
in a difficult economic environment such as the present one, with ever fewer resources available for development aid, any effort to increase the effectiveness of such aid can only be welcomed.
the report also recognises the challenges of climate change.
in order to make significant progress on the resilience approach, mr mitchell calls for resilience measures to be closely integrated into humanitarian and development aid programming, while also recognising the challenges posed by climate change and emphasising the need to take account of climate change adaptation needs in resilience and disaster risk reduction initiatives.
i therefore wholeheartedly support mrs werthmann's proposal, since i am sure that we have a duty to create an environment favourable to all eu citizens on equal terms.
the european parliament's initiative calls for the involvement of the european institutions in the definition of a strategy to improve the competitiveness of retailers by strengthening their economic, environmental and social performance.
the text adopted reflects the epp's line in a strong way, particularly with regard to the removal of obstacles to free movement and establishment in the european single market, an objective that can be achieved by eliminating discriminatory practices and calling on retailers to share responsibility for sustainability.
in order to improve the sustainable performance of the single market without having a negative impact on consumersʼ shopping experience or overall interests, retailers, traders and producers all need to be aligned to an initiative at eu level.
simplification and transparency of procedures for a more favourable environment for both importers and exporters, to ensure the prosperity that the treaty of lisbon wanted with greater prominence in trade policy for the european institutions; the european parliament's central role in defining a clear, uniform and shared legislative framework and rules.
that is what is needed, to eliminate unfair practices and still guarantee european union enterprises a competitive international environment under uniform rules.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the climate crisis is before our eyes and is getting worse every year, and is reaching a point of no return.
every decade has been warmer than the last for the past 30 years, and greenhouse gas emissions continue to rise.
binding commitments for substantial reductions in greenhouse gas emissions are needed.
due to persistent and increasing climate change, the frequency of extreme weather events such as storms, hurricanes and floods has also increased in europe, most recently flooding in sardinia, italy, and northern europe.
in this context, the resolution on green infrastructure and its implementation, which is based on a question from the committee on the environment, is very important.
green infrastructure is a tool for achieving ecological, economic and social benefits based on natural solutions.
according to some studies, these infrastructures are economically advantageous, more durable than traditional ones and, in many cases, create new job opportunities at local level, can sometimes be an alternative, sometimes a component of traditional solutions, can be introduced into a network of natural and semi-natural areas, if strategically planned with other environmental elements can provide a wide range of ecosystem services.
the european strategy needs to be transposed into member states' measures in order to give impetus to interventions based on the use of natural solutions based on the sustainable use of natural resources.
green infrastructure can also be a great opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises, which can play a key role in this field, especially because of their propensity to innovate and to be sustainable.
it is estimated that european green businesses currently generate an annual turnover of eur 319 billion and created as many as 600 000 new jobs between 2004 and 2008. given the already well-demonstrated importance and growth potential of the green technology sector, i support the report by mrs kadenbach, with the conviction that eco-innovation must be promoted as a tool combining environmental protection with growth and job creation.
- i do not share the views expressed in the kadenbach report, but i believe that to argue that the eu's economic and employment recovery can only come through the so-called 'green economy' is a sign of myopia with regard to the european productive reality which needs urgent concrete interventions rather than vague discourse on a hypothetical future sustainable economy.
− i voted in favour as the proposal aims to make progress towards the goal of sustainable development by reducing negative impacts on the environment and pursuing a more efficient and responsible use of resources.
eco-innovation is a concept that combines environmental protection with growth, competitiveness and job creation.
it helps to protect the environment by limiting greenhouse gas emissions, using resources such as water and raw materials more efficiently, increasing the use of recycled materials and producing quality products with a lower environmental impact.
and there is a clear awareness among citizens that it is worth investing in sustainable technologies and products, which cost a little more today but allow for big savings in the future, or lower environmental costs.
we are following their example and aiming to innovate at european level for the environmental sector.
every job, every profession has, if you will, its 'green' side, its environmental side.
- eco-innovation, as rapporteur kadenbach says, is a concept that combines environmental protection with growth, competitiveness and job creation.
by voting in favour of this report, i want to underline the potential and importance of eco-innovation, both in terms of creating sustainable jobs and promoting a green economy.
i appreciated the broad approach of the report, which covered a wide range of issues, including business, employment, research and industrial innovation, as well as the purely environmental aspect.
- i supported this report: in times of economic crisis, characterised by high unemployment rates, high energy prices, scarcity of raw materials and dependence on imports, the creation of sustainable jobs and economic growth is crucial to ensuring social cohesion.
one way to do this is to promote eco-innovation, a concept that combines environmental protection with growth, competitiveness and job creation.
in times of economic crisis, unemployment, high energy prices, scarcity of raw materials and dependence on imports, the creation of sustainable jobs and economic growth is essential to ensure social cohesion.
one way to do this is to promote eco-innovation, a concept that combines environmental protection with growth, competitiveness and job creation.
in supporting new processes, technologies and services that make businesses more sustainable and create new green jobs,the european legislator,member states and businesses need to remember that eco-innovation is not about creating green jobs at any cost.
socially sound and fair working conditions and considerations of ecological, economic and social sustainability must always be among the guiding principles.
− to ensure social cohesion in times of economic crisis, characterised by high unemployment, high energy prices, scarce raw materials and dependence on imports, the creation of sustainable employment and economic growth is a priority.
one way to do this is to promote eco-innovation, a concept that combines environmental protection with growth, competitiveness and job creation.
environmentally friendly innovations are very important to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to use resources such as water and raw materials more efficiently, to increase the use of recycled materials and to produce quality products with a lower environmental impact.
− to meet the growing demand for fish for consumption and to achieve sustainable management of eu fish stocks without further increasing imports, it would be essential to promote offshore aquaculture.
the report concerns the amendment of the directives, through transitional periods, in the fields of environment, agriculture, social policy and public health, for the change of status of mayotte.
- i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the adaptation of the union acquis to the new 'outermost region' of mayotte in certain areas such as fisheries and animal health: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
integrated action among the various authorities concerned can help to meet international commitments on combating climate change and the environment in general, protecting and conserving natural habitats, and improving the quality of life of citizens.
although the ecb has zeroed the cost of money by allowing credit institutions to buy longer-term public and private securities, thus supporting the course of bond markets and providing oxygen to banks' balance sheets, it has not worried about the side effect of these policies: the aim of the european council is to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of energy.