− i voted in favour of this proposal on sustainable urban development, which aims to promote the competitiveness of the eu as a whole by exploiting the potential of the eu's regions and urban areas.
as the most vulnerable groups of the population (who are often excluded) are threatened by urban regeneration processes, i agree that priority should be given to ensuring the social sustainability of urban regeneration by providing for appropriate housing policies and services, and the integration of vulnerable and excluded groups in urban areas.
i also support calls for incentives to combat energy inefficiency, reduce urban pollution and noise, and ensure sustainable mobility, quality water supply and waste management services.
urban development and regeneration is one of the key indicators for the creation of a european model of sustainable urban development.
the contribution of programmes such as urban was crucial, as they also implemented measures for social inclusion, such as a new approach to urban regeneration, a common vision to go beyond all social, economic, environmental and infrastructure measures.
as cities address the challenges of climate change mitigation, job creation, well-being and quality of life, we need to focus on sustainable urban development.
in the implementation of cohesion policy, particular attention must be paid to the development of regional and urban areas, to the question of the social sustainability of urban regeneration.
improving the living environment and quality of life will help attract a highly skilled workforce and thus contribute to attractive job creation, economic growth in the country's smaller cities and business competitiveness.
to ensure a better quality of the environment, it is necessary to combat inefficiently the use of energy and local potential.
− the report tackles the issue of sustainable urban development which represents the engine of the economy, manufacturing and employment.
cohesion policy should focus on sustainable urban development which plays a key role in achieving the objectives of europe 2020 and which is a source of economic growth.
economic growth can only be sustainable if it is led by measures designed to reduce poverty, social exclusion and environmental hazards.
that is why the set of actions mentioned in the report could serve as a guideline in order to achieve sustainable urban development.
such actions include urban and social regeneration, energy efficiency and the fight against poverty.
i welcome the importance of this report for future cohesion policy and believe that urban development is vital for sustainable growth in lithuania.
in the current economic environment, it is clear that cohesion policy funding is becoming increasingly important for europe's regions and that there is a growing need to ensure that money is spent more effectively so that citizens can benefit from eu funding.
the european restructuring framework could thus help to create a comprehensive environment of mutual trust.
only a strong social dialogue based on mutual trust and shared responsibility would ensure that the interests of enterprises in terms of competitiveness and sustainability and the interests of their employees in terms of social and employment conditions, health and working conditions are properly protected.
it is clear that sustainable development cannot be achieved in an environment of unstable governance, and poverty and underdevelopment are conflict-driven factors that affect the security of neighbouring countries and the continent as a whole.
it is noted that the political instability and ongoing conflicts in the region have destroyed almost all prospects for sustainable economic development in the region.
the loss of genetic diversity, which is accompanied by the loss of biodiversity, is a major challenge for humanity.
genetic resources are of particular importance for sustainable agriculture and food security.
genetic diversity is also one of the most important factors for species survival and ecosystem recovery.
the loss of genetic diversity, which is therefore accompanied by the loss of biodiversity, is a major challenge for humanity.
− while sustainable development and aid to third countries are important objectives and principles of the eu's functioning, i would like to stress that the principle of environmental integration must not be forgotten in their implementation.
genetic diversity is one of the most important drivers of the regeneration of species and ecosystems as a whole, and the irreversible loss of genetic diversity associated with biodiversity loss is therefore a major challenge for humanity.
today, the largest share of genetic resources is held by developing countries with high biodiversity.
the potential harm to humans and the environment.
it is important to ensure the safety of both our health and our environment, and correctly classifying and labelling solutions would further ensure safety in these fields, as would packaging these solutions with extreme care under the guidelines set forth in the legislation, so that during transport all necessary precautions are met without any consequences.
− i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1967/2006 on the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea, in order to bring its provisions into line with the newly-entering treaty of lisbon.
in view of the deteriorating state of some fish stocks in the mediterranean, the regulation aims to ensure the conservation and sustainable exploitation of the stocks.
i believe that these amendments, which lay down procedural provisions for the exercise of the commission's powers, will strengthen sustainable fishing in the region.
the delegated and implementing measures provided to the commission will help to establish more effective mechanisms for the management of sustainable use of resources and thus contribute to improving the use of living water resources and the protection of vulnerable habitats.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on the conclusion of the nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol, which specifies measures which need to be taken in the event of damage by living modified organisms that adversely affect the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity, taking also into account risks to human health.
i agree with the rapporteur that the nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol will greatly contribute to achieving the objectives of the convention on biological biodiversity and of the cartagena protocol on biosafety.
moreover, this supplementary protocol will specifically address liability and compensation for damage to biodiversity resulting from lmos.
the protocol refers to the precautionary principle and reaffirms the precautionary provisions contained in the rio declaration on environment and development.
the provisions on liability of the nagoya and kuala lumpur additional protocol are incorporated into directive 2004/35/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 21 april 2004 on environmental liability for the prevention and remedying of environmental damage, which establishes a 'polluter pays' system for environmental damage.
− we must do everything we can to contribute to the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity.
the eu must set high standards of environmental protection.
it is essential to establish an effective compensation mechanism by regulating in detail not only environmental restoration but also preventive and compensatory measures.
while the protocol mainly directs attention to administration procedures and requirements, it also concerns human health and biodiversity.
in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, member states need to implement innovation policies, provide more flexibility and security in the labour market (flexicurity), improve training programmes, reduce youth unemployment (by better matching youth qualifications with labour demand), create a more favourable environment for new business creation and take other similar measures to ensure further economic development and political stability.
a credible commitment to growth-friendly consolidation measures is a prerequisite for a sustainable solution to the excessive debt and deficit problems of many euro area member states.
− i support this resolution because the long-term sustainability of public and private finances is a prerequisite for stability and growth.
most member states face significant difficulties in restoring the sustainability of public finances.
having this opportunity, we, the members of the european parliament, must ensure that cod stocks in the baltic sea are exploited in a sustainable manner, taking into account economic, social and environmental concerns.
the main objective of this plan is to ensure the sustainable exploitation of the cod stock in the baltic sea by setting tacs.
whereas the plan ensures the maximum sustainable exploitation of the cod stock concerned, consistent with the maximum sustainable level of fishing, by progressively reducing fishing mortality rates;
in writing.
− it is essential to ensure that the cod stocks in the baltic sea continue to be exploited under sustainable economic, environmental and social conditions.
these measures provide for minimum landings, minimum mesh sizes, zones and prohibition periods, catch limits, fishing gear to ensure a higher selectivity and measures designed to protect the marine environment.
− i support this resolution, as the extension of the technical rules during the transitional period is necessary to ensure sustainable fishing, the best management of the resources and to prevent an increase in the amount of fish being released into the sea.
only by implementing these measures will sustainable fishing and the appropriate protection of ecosystems be ensured.
attention should be paid to the fact that young people are one of the most vulnerable groups in society, facing a very complex and different social environment.
− i voted in favour of this proposal on strengthening the role of eu cohesion policy in the implementation of the new european energy policy.
the objective of european energy policy is to ensure security of energy supply, sustainability, competitiveness, diversification of energy sources and affordability for consumers.
energy investment in the eu is part of the cohesion policy, which aims at smart and sustainable growth and the transition to a low-carbon economy.
i support the calls for an eu-wide incentive scheme for renewable energy sources and for administrative capacity building at member state, regional and local levels for the institutions that use eu funding.
it is also important to regularly check how cohesion funding is allocated to energy projects and whether projects are effective.
i believe that the commission should develop an eu-wide cooperation programme to help improve cooperation between regions that use a lot of eu funds to implement an energy project and those that use little eu funds and to facilitate the sharing of best practices.
− i voted in favour of this report because the implementation of european energy policy should ensure the security of energy resources, the diversification of energy sources and affordability for end-users.
european energy projects could contribute to regional development and enhanced cross-border cooperation by helping regions to improve their capacity to manage energy resources.
for example, investing in low-carbon and renewable energy sources would boost energy efficiency, regional economic growth and job creation.
the european union should act without delay to secure its future energy supply and protect its interests in a given member state.
the transition to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth requires support for the transition to low-carbon and energy-efficient technologies in all sectors of the economy.
european energy projects could contribute to regional development and enhanced cross-border cooperation, thus helping regions to improve their capacity to manage energy resources.
in addition, investments in low-carbon and renewable energy sources, energy efficiency and other measures can boost regional economic growth and job creation.
−in developing a single eu energy policy and implementing its objectives, it is important to ensure that there are no energy islands in the european union.
it is therefore essential to ensure support for the eu's cohesion policy and its mechanisms, in such exceptional cases by creating new energy infrastructure.
− i voted in favour of this resolution because as energy prices rise, so do local and regional disparities.
in this context, it is essential to maintain the eu's cohesion in the implementation of the new energy policy.
i believe that the energy projects under way are an integral part of regional development and closer crossborder cooperation, which stimulate regional economic growth.
it is essential to ensure that an effectively functioning incentive system for the use of renewable energy sources is widely applied in the eu.
support should be given to cities and regions for the implementation of investment projects, with particular attention and financial support for energy efficiency projects.
the temporary european debt relief fund will help to reduce debt to sustainable levels and ensure affordable interest rates.
in addition, technical assistance should be provided on a continuous basis to iraq in order to ensure the sustainability and efficiency of the iraqi economy.
it includes substantive and wide areas of cooperation and partnership, such as: energy, trade, heath, education, environment, countering terrorism and promoting human rights.
− i voted in favour of this resolution because economic partnership agreements (epas) are agreements compatible with the rules of the world trade organisation (wto) which aim to promote regional integration through trade development, sustainable growth and poverty reduction, while promoting the gradual integration of african, caribbean and pacific (acp) economies into the world economy.
in promoting open and fair trade, particular attention should be paid to the labour standards and working conditions of the octs and to the very high social and environmental standards.
the signing of the interim epa is therefore a necessary step towards sustainable growth in the region.
the signing of the interim economic partnership agreement is a necessary step towards sustainable growth in the eastern and southern africa region.
increased legal certainty should contribute to improving the trade and investment environment in the countries concerned in the region.
in particular, greater legal certainty will help to create a better trade and investment environment and ensure a sustainable, wto-rules-based trade relationship.
i also believe that sustainable development and human rights should be given greater prominence in this agreement and in others.
competition policy must enable the state to adequately support the green transition of the economy, in particular in the areas of renewable energy and energy efficiency
in writing.
parliament considered it totally unacceptable that so many workers had been killed in south asian factory fires in recent years and called on the commission to actively promote responsible behaviour by eu companies operating abroad and to pay particular attention to ensuring that they strictly comply with their legal obligations, in particular with international standards, human rights, labour and environmental protection.
it is also important to add value to high quality production and environmental and social standards in the current global competition environment, which is crucial for smes.
it is necessary to place more value on high quality production and environmental and social standards in the current global competitive environment.
it is also important to incorporate respect for democratic principles, fundamental and human rights and the rule of law, as well as environmental and social standards, in all trade agreements concluded by the eu with third countries, in order to achieve greater coherence in external action, respecting the eu's economic interests and promoting its fundamental values.
it is proposed to revise substantially the aid agreements for the smaller aegean islands, including measures for environmental protection and the strengthening of agricultural infrastructure.
the proposal therefore aims to simplify the regulatory and administrative environment for smes.
smes are one of the main pillars of economic growth and sustainable job creation.
i would therefore once again urge the commission to put forward proposals for the establishment of european credit rating agencies in order to protect and defend our market and ensure its sustainable and socially responsible recovery.
corporate social responsibility is one of the tools that contribute to overcoming the crisis and promoting a more sustainable economic recovery.
in line with the europe 2020 strategy proposed by the commission, the union will be able to orient its economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, while ensuring high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion.
secondly, such regulation will help to protect patients and contribute to the efficiency and sustainability of health systems.
at present, the financial sustainability of the healthcare systems of the member states is not able to bear the burden of the economic crisis and of budgetary austerity policies.
the principle of maximum sustainable yield, the definition of fishing capacity, the prohibition of discarding non-targeted catches, etc.
the proposal aims to establish sustainable fishing quotas, to prohibit fishermen from discarding unwanted fish, and to establish, from 2015, the principle of maximum sustainable yield, whereby the annual catch is to be sufficient to restore the stock.
the european union's common fisheries policy (cfp) is essential to ensure the environmental, economic and social sustainability of fisheries management.
this is a total waste of resources, as more than 60% of the fish consumed in europe is currently imported.
the high financial burden encourages short-term planning and unwise and inappropriate activities that cause serious damage to the marine environment.
in order to ensure the sustainable use of marine resources, the principle of maximum sustainable yield needs to be applied more effectively.
access to fisheries resources shall be based on transparent and objective environmental and social criteria.
the environment is becoming less sustainable due to the decrease in fish.
i voted for this report, because it will address these issues: the obligation to land all catches and the discard ban will help increase sustainability of fish.
− i voted in favour of this proposal on vehicle noise levels, which aims to reduce the impact of noise from cars on public health and the environment.
i support the proposal to introduce a labelling system to inform consumers about the noise emissions of new cars and thus encourage the purchase of low-noise vehicles.
its main objective is to protect public health and the environment through measures to reduce the noise level of motor vehicles.
motor vehicles are one of the main sources of noise pollution.
this would undoubtedly be an important step forward in reducing the impact of noise emitted by motor vehicles on public health and the environment.
to reduce environmental noise and ensure safety on the roads and at work, it is necessary to establish strict methods, new limit values that apply uniformly throughout the eu.
− i voted in favour of this report because the crisis has forced most member states to take various measures to reduce their debt levels and budget deficits and restore public financial sustainability.
− i voted in favour of this document because the impact of the economic and financial crisis on public finances in some member states was very significant, requiring many member states to take far-reaching measures to reduce debt and budget deficits and to restore the sustainability of public finances.
technical measures for the conservation of fisheries resources are the rules that eu fishermen must follow when fishing in order to ensure that the fisheries are sustainable.
− i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to lay down specific rules on fishing zones and gears in order to conserve fish stocks and protect their ecosystem.
it should be noted that ensuring the proper protection of fish stocks is essential to ensure sustainable fishing.
technical conservation measures for fisheries resources will help to prevent depletion of resources and maintain the good environmental status of marine ecosystems.
i voted in favour of this report, because the multi-annual plan for the baltic salmon stock will manage to increase stock to ensure maximum sustainability, as well as yield.
all in all sustainability will be the principal outcome from this proposal.
the socio-economic sector as well as the environmental sector will all profit generously from these amendments.
the convention provides a comprehensive and sustainable system for the protection and prevention of victims of violence, which would complement the legislation of the republic of lithuania.
furthermore, when thinking about the environment in a broad sense (including ecological factors, social and demographic and socio-economic indicators), it becomes clear that the human environment is one of the main determinants of people's ability to enjoy an active and healthy life well into old age, as well as to live independently for as long as possible.
i therefore agree with the rapporteurs that the european commission must pay particular attention to the multifaceted relationship between the ageing population and its environment in order to ensure the long-term success of the european innovation partnership on ageing and health.
research has shown that there is a relationship between place and person, in other words, the conditions that characterize a place (environment) influence human maturation and aging.
the importance of location in the relationship between man and the environment is often an important factor, as the environmental impact of the micro- and macro-levels must be taken into account.
thus, in order to take account of the impact of micro and macro-levels, it is important to assess not only the built environment, access to (meat) transport and access to appropriate care and treatment services, but also the employment opportunities, the problem of health inequalities and the possibilities for social activism and management.
environmental aspects (e.g.
noise pollution, indoor and outdoor air quality) should also be considered.
the main causes of biodiversity loss today are wildlife exploitation, illegal trade in fauna and flora, habitat destruction, climate change and human depletion of natural resources.
the eu and the member states are therefore encouraged to use the precautionary principle as a guiding principle in all decisions on working papers and proposals for cites annexes, taking into account in particular the 'user pays' principle, the concept of the ecosystem and traditional conservation principles.
it is also necessary to improve international cooperation in order to combat biodiversity loss from various causes more effectively.
− i voted in favour of this proposal on corporate social responsibility (csr), accountability, transparency and responsibility, and sustainable growth.
csr is the responsibility of companies to integrate social, environmental and transparent business principles into their activities.
this includes improving working conditions for employees, taking care of the environment, consulting the regional or local community on the activities carried out by the company.
the proposal aims to contribute to the overcoming of the economic crisis in the eu, sustainable growth.
i support the launch of broad consultations to identify and define csr strategies that meet the needs of smes, better integration of social and environmental aspects into public procurement procedures and the development of multilateral csr platforms.
− i voted in favour of this report because the process of globalisation and the creation of global markets are driving businesses to develop social and environmental standards, and because an increasingly aware and better informed civil society is demanding that businesses behave more responsibly.
this would allow enterprises to take over the primary functions of public authorities in relation to the implementation and promotion and control of social and environmental standards.
under the new definition, companies must follow a process to integrate social, environmental, ethical and human rights issues and consumer demands into their commercial and core business strategies.
the company's responsibility towards society, the environment and its employees creates a win-win situation and is necessary to expand the basis of trust that is essential for economic success.
in order to balance the interests of business and society, businesses should integrate social, environmental and transparent business principles more effectively.
in order to help companies to conduct their business in a socially responsible manner, it is appropriate to further integrate social and environmental aspects into public procurement procedures.
first, it is necessary to create an environment favourable to smes.
− this report underlines the necessity of effective corporate governance that in times of crisis is indispensable for a sustainable economic recovery and an efficient functioning of smes.
corporate social responsibility (csr) should take into account environmental and social concerns and contribute to the society in a positive way.
i welcome this report that positions the csr as a core element for responsible business behaviour and as a basis for sustainable growth and durable employment generation in the medium and long-term.
i consider that stable and healthy corporate governance should be improved in lithuania as well in order to stimulate the member state’s business environment and its administrative efficiency.
− i voted in favour of this proposal on the grounds of corporate social responsibility (csr), the protection of public interests and the pursuit of a sustainable and inclusive recovery.
csr is the responsibility of companies to integrate social, environmental and transparent business principles into their activities.
this includes improving working conditions for employees, taking care of the environment, consulting the regional or local community on the activities carried out by the company.
the proposal aims to encourage businesses to create jobs for young people, to ensure occupational health and the sustainability of pensions, to promote living wages and to promote markets for environmentally friendly products.
− i voted in favour of this report because the proposals on corporate social responsibility (and other stakeholders involved) set out in the latest commission communication are an important foundation for building sustainable businesses and for economic recovery.
it is also proposed to explore the overall impact of csr on social and environmental issues and to conclude a new agreement with civil society.
corporate social responsibility is a prerequisite for restoring confidence in business and for a sustainable economic recovery.
the communication rightly stresses the importance of gradually increasing corporate social responsibility, of undertaking business awareness initiatives as part of the 2013 european year of citizens, of examining the overall impact of corporate social responsibility on the solution of social and environmental problems, in order to highlight the need to address these challenges without delay, and of concluding a new agreement with civil society.
in particular, companies should be more active in re-thinking their business processes through the lens of sustainability, environmental impact and stakeholders.
for example, between june 2008 and december 2009, an estimated eur 5 billion was lost to value added tax fraud in the area of greenhouse gas emission allowances.
i consider that all member states, including lithuania, have to increase their efforts in fighting tax fraud and evasion which are harmful for a legitimate business climate.
ensuring economic growth is essential to make public finances sustainable and to restore investor confidence.
while much remains to be done to achieve the objectives set, the growth-friendly approach would include fiscal consolidation, better public financial control, the reduction of excessive deficits and other similar measures that would help restore sustainable and effective fiscal policies in all member states.
the single market, as a key driver of economic growth and job creation, provides the basis for restoring competitiveness and boosting sustainable growth as envisaged in the europe 2020 strategy.
this report is particularly relevant for lithuania: a well functioning single market will lead to a sustainable recovery that in turn will stimulate the regulatory business environment and open new opportunities for business and entrepreneurship in this member state.
europe needs to take active actions in order to increase inclusive growth and opportunities, to reinforce its innovation capacity and knowledge-based industry, to expand infrastructure investment and networks and to strengthen social, welfare and environmental policies.
i would like to welcome the fact that after lengthy negotiations with the council, a decision has been reached on a guideline regulation for trans-european energy infrastructure.
this regulation is an important step towards ensuring the full integration of the internal energy market.
the regulation will modernise and extend europe's energy infrastructure and effectively connect cross-border networks.
i would also like to stress that the regulation will ensure that energy isolated islands such as lithuania are connected to the common european energy grid, as currently such energy islands have no connections to other eu countries and most projects in these markets are not economically viable.
i urge that funding for energy projects not be reduced, as it is essential for the development of energy infrastructure.
we all understand that energy and energy security are at the top of the political agenda at the moment.
commissioner, thank you for being here today and thank you very much for your active initiative on the use of stress tests in nuclear energy.
i hope that high standards of nuclear safety will also contribute to energy independence.
on behalf of the ppe group the european union is undoubtedly one of the global leaders in the fight against climate change.
however, certain decisions have been taken under the unfccc and the kyoto protocol, in this case on land use, land use change and forestry activities, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
the document should also not include additional commitments that are not accounting but climate change mitigation measures.
− i voted in favour of this proposal for the regulation of energy infrastructure projects, which aims to accelerate the completion of the internal energy market and achieve the eu's energy policy objectives.
the proposal aims to modernise and extend europe's energy infrastructure, to connect cross-border networks and to strengthen market integration and competitiveness and the integration of energy from renewable sources.
i support the proposals put forward to give the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) a greater role in ensuring the development of crossborder networks, the coordination of investments and consumer protection.
− i voted in favour of this report because the acceleration of the renewal of existing energy infrastructure and the development of new energy infrastructure is crucial to achieving the union's energy and climate policy objectives.
for the union as well as for lithuania, the deployment of integrated networks and smart grids is of paramount importance in ensuring a competitive and well-functioning integrated market, in order to optimise the use of energy infrastructure, to increase energy efficiency and to integrate diverse renewable energy sources, and to promote growth, employment and sustainable development.
the measures provided for in this regulation are intended to continue and complement the union's energy policy, namely to complete the internal energy market, to ensure security of supply, in particular in the gas and oil sectors, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20%, to increase the share of energy from renewable sources in final energy use to 20% and to increase energy efficiency by 20% by 2020. this will enable the union to adapt its infrastructure to further reduce carbon emissions in its energy system by 2050 and to prepare for the interconnection of regions with high renewable energy production capacity and electricity storage potential.
i see the new regulation as a positive and important initiative, as it aims to accelerate the completion of the internal energy market and to achieve the eu's energy and climate policy objectives.
it provides for the modernisation and interconnection of energy networks.
in the electricity sector, the aim is to strengthen market integration and competitiveness, system security and the integration of energy from renewable sources by addressing the problem of decentralised and non-transferable energy generation, by developing smart grids, by connecting installations to storage facilities and to power lines.
in the gas sector, security of energy supply can be achieved through diversification of gas supply sources and routes, the deployment of lng storage and reverse pipelines.
today, it is clear that we must strive for sustainable, safe, reliable and affordable energy for all europeans.
− the regulation adopted today is a key instrument for achieving the eu's energy policy objectives, in particular to ensure the functioning of the energy market, to ensure the security of energy supply in the european union and to promote the interconnection of energy networks, especially in those member states which are still energy islands.
on the other hand, i am pleased that the debate in the european parliament has succeeded in strengthening the provisions on the environmental impact assessment of such projects in the document.
i am convinced that any project must be carried out only if it is certain and guaranteed that no damage will be done to the environment.
− i support this report, as it is necessary to achieve full integration of the internal energy market, which would ensure security of supply and solidarity between member states.
only by working together can we create a competitive cross-border energy market and modernise and fully extend europe's energy infrastructure.
this will connect isolated regions, create additional energy supply or transmission routes and develop renewable energy sources.
it is worth noting that the baltic energy market's plans for the interconnection of the electricity and gas sectors are of crucial importance in order to decouple from a single supplier and to enhance regional integration and security of supply.
the commission has decided that an environmental impact assessment, as provided for in directive 85/337/eec, should be carried out.
since the development permit had been granted and the project was due to be completed shortly, the objective of the directive could not be achieved and the commission therefore agreed not to continue the infringement procedure on condition that austria carried out an ex post environmental impact assessment which would be as close as possible to an ex ante environmental impact assessment.
the commission concluded that an environmental impact assessment as provided for in directive 85/337/eec (the environmental impact assessment directive) should have been carried out.
in consultation with the austrian authorities, the commission agreed not to extend the infringement procedure on condition that austria carries out an ex post environmental impact assessment which is as close as possible to an ex ante environmental impact assessment and which allows a full assessment of the environmental impact of the projects.
− unfortunately, environmental impact assessment procedures do not work properly in many eu member states, no matter how mature their democracy.
− i voted in favour of this proposal for a european union-wide set of rules for accounting for greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions from land use and forestry (lulucf).
the eu's greenhouse gas emissions are largely generated by energy production facilities, but a large proportion of emissions are stored in trees, soil, biomass and wood.
the aim of this proposal is to integrate the lulucf sector into the eu's efforts to reduce ghg emissions, thus contributing to climate change mitigation, biodiversity conservation and sustainable resource use.
i agree with the proposals here to align the accounting rules with the commitments and rules of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change and the kyoto protocol.
it is also necessary to examine the actions to be taken by member states to reduce ghg emissions in the lulucf sector, and the commission should provide guidance and technical assistance to that end.
− i voted in favour of this report because it aims to keep track of the implementation of land use, land use change and forestry (lulucf) activities, which, among other things, create opportunities to contribute to climate change mitigation, adaptation, biodiversity conservation and sustainable use of natural resources.
the obligation to identify and account for emissions of pollutants and greenhouse gases from the various land-use activities is an important step towards the inclusion of these sectors in the union's efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
i believe that the agriculture and forestry sectors should be included in the eu's climate change commitments.
those activities would contribute to limiting emissions of ghg and increasing removals from the atmosphere and enhancing the impact of changes in land use on the overall objective.
in order to enhance climate change mitigation efforts and their visibility in agriculture, forestry and related sectors, a harmonised legal framework should be established to provide clear and robust rules for this sector.
− i voted in favour of this proposal for the establishment of european union-wide rules for accounting for greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions from land use and forestry (lulucf).
the main sources of ghg emissions are energy-producing facilities, but a large proportion of emissions are stored in trees, soil, biomass and wood.
the aim of this proposal is to integrate the lulucf sector into the eu's efforts to reduce ghg emissions, thus contributing to climate change mitigation, biodiversity conservation and sustainable resource use.
i support the proposals set out here to align the accounting rules with the commitments and rules of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change and the kyoto protocol.
it is also necessary to examine the actions to be taken by member states to reduce ghg emissions in the lulucf sector, and the commission should provide guidance and technical assistance to that end.
− i voted in favour of this report because it aims to simplify and strengthen the eu's greenhouse gas monitoring and reporting rules and to enhance the eu's credibility in relation to developing countries by providing transparent and detailed information on the types and amounts of aid provided.
the proposed wording aims, inter alia, to help member states implement the climate and energy package, to improve the timeliness, transparency and comparability of data provided, to ensure compliance by the union and its member states with international monitoring and reporting obligations, including reporting on support to developing countries, to facilitate the development of new union climate change measures.
the proposed mechanism will help ensure the harmonisation of the different objectives of the climate and energy package, and it also extends the scope of reporting and monitoring provisions to include the percentage of energy from renewable sources and the total final energy consumption.
timely, reliable and accurate greenhouse gas emissions data are crucial to knowing whether the eu and its member states are doing well enough to meet targets and develop proactive new policies to tackle climate change.
the proposal therefore aims to simplify and strengthen the rules for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions in the eu.
− i support this resolution, as the mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions and other climate change-related information should function effectively at eu level.
accurate and comprehensive monitoring, emission reporting and other climate change data are key elements for the effective implementation of international commitments.
the commission should prepare reports based on the reduction of carbon dioxide.
− i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to develop sustainable cooperation with the overseas countries and territories (octs) in the indian ocean, the caribbean, the atlantic ocean and the pacific ocean.
these countries are directly confronted with new challenges (such as the globalisation of trade, new environmental challenges, risks associated with climate change) that europe must also help address.
i believe that priority should be given to cooperation in areas of mutual interest in order to ensure sustainable economic and social development.
− i voted in favour of this report because the provision of safe drinking water to european citizens is one of the most important concerns of policies relating to human health and the environment.
− in a european union with a high level of environmental protection, the quality of natural elements, especially those used by humans, must also be ensured.
this is not the first time that the european commission has tried to justify lower environmental standards with the euratom treaty.
radioactive substances are usually introduced into water by improper handling of radioactive waste.
in view of this, the polluter pays principle and the pollutant brake conditions must be strictly applied in the case of man-made pollution.
in order to restore a sound and sustainable economic and fiscal situation in countries experiencing severe financial difficulties in a timely and operational manner, the provisions on enhanced economic and budgetary surveillance and enhanced economic policy coordination should be applied with the utmost care, after analysing all potential threats and carrying out a comprehensive assessment for each country.
it is also important that eu budgetary policy is fully aligned with the new strategy for jobs and growth europe 2020, which aims to help the eu overcome the crisis and steer the eu economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, ensuring high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion.
a reliable and stable environment for investors must be created.
in addition, gender equality must be a key consideration in decision-making in the current economic and financial crisis, including investment in the public sector, social security sector and environmentally sustainable housing, transport, etc., as well as the collection of public revenues through more effective tax policies.
− i voted in favour of this report because the high number of breaches of environmental legislation and the number of complaints about them reflect the insufficient level of implementation of environmental legislation.
in 2011, the eu recorded the highest number of infringements of community law (299) in the field of the environment.
a high level of environmental protection is one of the european union's key objectives, and achieving it would bring direct benefits to citizens, such as improved air quality, reduced noise and reduced health problems.
full implementation of eu legislation would create 400 000 jobs a year in the waste sector alone and save €72 billion.
in order to ensure that citizens better understand, support and cooperate with eu environmental policy and that it is compatible with local government policy, it is essential that information and transparency standards regarding the application of environmental legislation and eu rules are high.
it is also important that environmental issues are always addressed in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, as citizens and residents of the member states are best placed to decide what is most appropriate to prioritise in their local neighbourhoods, and member states should improve information flows and transparency by exchanging information more actively and frequently.
− i supported this proposal because petitioners often raise concerns in certain areas of environmental policy, such as landfill and waste disposal, wildlife habitats, and air and water quality.
member states are encouraged to take all necessary measures to protect the environment and promote sustainable development, while taking into account the need for a healthy and competitive economy.
i believe that the best balance between the needs of people and their environment is the local community.
the principle of subsidiarity must always be respected when environmental issues are addressed, wherever possible, as citizens and residents of the member states are best placed to decide what is most appropriate to prioritise in their local area.
it is recognised that over-regulation of eu environmental legislation can have a negative impact, as it can make it less acceptable.
it is vital for the eu to develop new clean energy production capacity and to invest in technology that can provide alternative energy sources.
this cannot be done without some impact on the environment and therefore the eu and the member states are encouraged to take measures to avoid negative environmental impacts.
− i voted in favour of this document because i am convinced that the potential of eu legislation in the field of environmental policy is currently not fully exploited.
first, i believe that it is necessary to create as soon as possible a single and public platform providing comprehensive information on the various environmental parameters in different areas of the eu.
on the other hand, it would only be a first step towards encouraging eu citizens to take part in the solution of their environmental problems.
local and regional authorities and municipalities are currently not sufficiently involved in the consideration of these issues, and the instruments for ensuring citizen participation (such as environmental impact assessment) are also not sufficiently effective.
so i think that eu environment policy is an area where there is still a lot to be done.
− i support this resolution because environmental protection is one of the eu's key objectives.
it is worth noting that the costs of not implementing eu environmental legislation are enormous.
i believe that the eu should have uniform and strict rules on legal liability for environmental damage and corporate social responsibility.
effective implementation of legislation and enforcement of enhanced accountability are necessary to protect the environment and promote sustainable development.
in particular, eu environmental law measures must be coordinated and complementary.
it is also necessary to reduce the administrative burden and costs associated with environmental legislation.
mr barros moura, would you agree with me that the biggest problem which can make even the best intentions go to waste is that we get bogged down in a sea of new resolutions, directives and regulations, forgetting to see how the previous decisions are being implemented?
eu companies awarding public contracts financed by the edf-acp should apply environmental and social standards.
in its resolution, the european parliament proposes to significantly increase investment in youth, innovation, research and technological development, infrastructure and to achieve the eu's climate change and energy objectives, raise education levels and promote social inclusion.
in this context, it is essential to take an innovative approach and to look at the development of european transport, energy and digital networks from a completely different perspective, and the importance of research and technological innovation in accelerating the transition to a sustainable, world-leading, knowledge-based economy, using natural resources efficiently and responsibly.
further methodological work is needed to provide a more complete picture in the areas of environment, household activities and the public sector.
priority should be given to job creation, sustainable growth and the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and adequate and realistic levels of payment should be set.
− i voted in favour of this proposal for a reform of the common agricultural policy, which aims to ensure a stable supply of high-quality food to consumers in the european union and adequate protection of the environment.
it is necessary to start the standardisation of benefits as early as 2014 and to ensure that no member state receives benefits below 75% of the eu average in 2019. as regards other aspects of the reform, i support the proposals made for direct payments to active farmers only, not to landowners, for a ceiling of 300 000 direct payments and for new compulsory environmental measures for which each eu country should allocate 30% of direct payments.
dependent on the size of the farm and the environmental protection measures already taken by the farmer.
− i was the shadow rapporteur for the ppe group in the environment committee when it delivered its opinion on this document.
the so-called 'agricultural greening' measures, while necessary for integrating environmental policy into other policies, should not, in my view, impose an additional administrative burden on farmers.
− i voted in favour of this proposal for a reform of the common agricultural policy, which aims to ensure a stable supply of high-quality food to consumers in the european union and adequate protection of the environment.
it is necessary to start the standardisation of benefits as early as 2014 and to ensure that no member state receives benefits below 75% of the eu average in 2019. as regards other aspects of the reform, i support the proposals made for direct payments to active farmers only, not to landowners, for a ceiling of 300 000 direct payments and for new compulsory environmental measures for which each eu country should allocate 30% of direct payments.
dependent on the size of the farm and the environmental protection measures already taken by the farmer.
in addition to addressing food security by ensuring a viable food production, green growth and sustainable territorial development are also needed.
− i voted in favour of this proposal for a reform of the common agricultural policy, which aims to ensure a stable supply of high-quality food to consumers in the european union and adequate protection of the environment.
it is necessary to start the standardisation of benefits as early as 2014 and to ensure that no member state receives benefits below 75% of the eu average in 2019. as regards other aspects of the reform, i support the proposals made for direct payments to active farmers only, not to landowners, for a ceiling of 300 000 direct payments and for new compulsory environmental measures for which each eu country should allocate 30% of direct payments.
dependent on the size of the farm and the environmental protection measures already taken by the farmer.
− i voted in favour of this proposal for a reform of the common agricultural policy, which aims to ensure a stable supply of high-quality food to consumers in the european union and adequate protection of the environment.
it is necessary to start the standardisation of benefits as early as 2014 and to ensure that no member state receives benefits below 75% of the eu average in 2019. as regards other aspects of the reform, i support the proposals made for direct payments to active farmers only, not to landowners, for a ceiling of 300 000 direct payments and for new compulsory environmental measures for which each eu country should allocate 30% of direct payments.
dependent on the size of the farm and the environmental protection measures already taken by the farmer.
− the importance of the eu’s energy policy lies in growth and economic competitiveness, creating jobs in the eu.
i voted in favour of this report as the energy roadmap 2050 shows that each member state has to focus on such critical areas as emissions reduction, energy independence and energy security, renewable energy, energy efficiency, investments in advanced technologies, etc.
furthermore, the current market environment is highly unpredictable, thus new strategies and innovative instruments should be promoted to encourage investment in infrastructure, enabling a quick adjustment to the rapidly changing environment.
it is very important to adopt the strategy of regional energy specialisation, allowing regions to develop those energy sources which provide the most efficient means, but at the same time there is a need to pursue closer integration with neighbouring countries and regions, and to strengthen cooperation with partners.
− i voted in favour of this proposal for an energy action plan to 2050. the proposal aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80% by 2050, by reducing the use of the most polluting fuels, such as coal and oil, while improving the eu's competitiveness and security of supply.
the objective of the plan is increased energy efficiency and a higher share of renewable energy sources.
i agree with the suggestions that the reduction of energy consumption in buildings should be considered a key aspect of the eu's long-term energy policy.
it is necessary to adopt ambitious strategies for the renovation of buildings and to explore scenarios for 'energy-intensive use of renewable resources'.
i agree that it is important to exploit low greenhouse gas electricity generation (including renewables, carbon capture and storage and nuclear) in the future energy mix.
it is also important to establish robust systems for investing in renewable energy sources, to ensure that agreements are not concluded in contravention of internal energy market legislation and to enable the commission to analyse agreements in order to verify their compatibility with that legislation.
− i voted for this resolution because it is the european parliament's way of putting forward its proposals in the debate on the eu's energy action plan to 2050. as member states have an interest in reducing dependence on energy imports at volatile prices and in diversifying energy supplies, the main energy policy objective in the field of energy security is to reduce uncertainties that lead to interstate tensions and market failures that prevent suppliers and consumers from taking advantage of trade.
energy security in the eu is based on the fundamental pillar of own energy resources and access to them.
in this respect, it would therefore be most prudent for states to develop energy technologies in which they have the skills and experience to guarantee a stable and continuous energy supply, while respecting environmental and climate protection standards.
for member states, in pursuit of energy security and energy independence, the focus should be on an energy interdependence model, with the rapid completion of the eu internal energy market and the infrastructure for a north-south and east-west smart grid covering all electricity grids.
it is necessary to achieve a fully integrated european energy market by 2014, to fully implement internal energy market legislation in all member states and to ensure that no member state or region remains isolated from the european gas and electricity networks after 2015.
in writing.
the eu's energy policy must be aligned not only with climate change and environmental protection but also with other priority areas of union policy, including security, foreign and neighbourhood affairs, trade and development policy, and the defence of human rights and democratic principles.
the implementation of the eu's energy policy should aim at greater independence, including through energy efficiency, the promotion of renewable energy sources and the shift towards low-emission sources, thereby enhancing the union's competitiveness.
− energy policy has only been a matter of eu competence for a few years.
on the one hand, the successful functioning of the eu energy market requires that the european union is no longer an energy island, that the rules of competition in the single energy supply market are enforced and that the development of new energy sources (e.g.
on the other hand, energy is closely linked to environmental policy.
efficient use of energy resources and energy saving are an essential element of eu energy policy to achieve both energy independence, cost reduction and environmental policy objectives.
i therefore believe that energy policy action in these two areas should be a priority in both the short and long term.
− energy policy must be conducted on the basis of the principles of sustainable development, ensuring equal, universal and competitive access to energy resources.
more attention should be paid to the achievement of the targets for energy efficiency, renewable energy and greenhouse gas emissions.
in addition, a strategy for closer cooperation between states and the creation of a european energy community should be developed to achieve the objectives set out in this plan.
states must develop technologies that guarantee a stable and continuous supply of energy.
i believe that by 2050, by using up all the low-carbon electricity generation, we should have a nearly zero-carbon electricity sector and low electricity prices.
in this context, nuclear energy has a special role to play in reducing system costs and electricity prices.
− today energy policy is facing many challenges and needs to be adapted to a changing reality.
the energy roadmap 2050 goes beyond the goals established in the energy 2020 communication and provides priorities for long-term energy orientations.
targets set in this roadmap suggest a greater scope of governance than the eu actually possesses now, and establish the commitment to move to a low-carbon economy in 2050 and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from 80 % to 95 % by 2050. the roadmap also proposes measures to increase energy efficiency and places a strong emphasis on renewable sources of energy.
i welcome this report and consider that a coordinated energy policy and political commitment are needed in order to reconcile the application of the climate objectives with the necessity for energy security in the eu.
this report takes into account the changes that the energy market is undergoing now and focuses on the future of an energy market by asking the question concerning renewable energy and shale gas.
this question is particularly relevant for lithuania as the position of different stakeholders on shale gas and renewable energy is not homogenous and can be determined only in the future.
the european parliament's position that nuclear energy remains an important source of energy for reducing co2 emissions obliges the eu to pay particular attention to nuclear safety.
i believe that better protection of and data collection on vulnerable groups in society are necessary, as well as a stronger commitment by political leaders to actively uphold european values and foster a climate of mutual respect for and inclusion of persons of different religious or ethnic background, or sexual orientation.
i believe that the problem of the demographic deficit in the union should be tackled, in particular, by strengthening the european social and financial environment.
they shall operate on the principles of voluntary and open membership and solidarity of members and shall be governed in accordance with democratic principles, thereby contributing to responsible and sustainable governance.
the social economy, in particular cooperatives, plays a key role in the union economy by combining profitability and solidarity, creating high-quality jobs and jobs at local level, strengthening social, economic and regional cohesion, creating social capital and promoting active citizenship, solidarity-based social welfare and an economy based on democratic values, which puts people first and supports sustainable development and social, environmental and technological innovation.
the leadership is well aware that nuclear weapons would lose their preventive power the moment they are used and would cause irreparable damage to people, societies, the environment, property, international security and stability.
− the eu-china strategic partnership is important for finding answers to global concerns (regional security, energy security, the promotion of democracy and human rights, etc.).
these relations are important in responding to global challenges such as global and regional security, economic crisis, regulation of global finance and markets, energy security, non-proliferation and nuclear weapons, climate change, social and economic development of market economies, promotion of democracy and human rights, fight against organised crime, terrorism and piracy, and the establishment of a framework for bilateral eu-china issues.
only effective political reforms aimed at building inclusive, democratic and accountable institutions that reflect china's ethnic, religious, political and social diversity will help to create sustainable growth, stability and contain the semi-independent, despotic provincial, district and local party leaders whose abuse of power, especially in the context of highly pernicious and characteristic corruption, damages the reputation of china's national leadership both internally and externally.
the eu-china strategic partnership is of key importance for eu-china relations and is relevant to responding to global challenges such as global and regional security, economic crisis, regulation of global financial and market conditions, energy security, non-proliferation and nuclear weapons, climate change, social and economic development of market economies, promotion of democracy and human rights, fight against organised crime, terrorism and piracy, and the development of a framework for bilateral eu-china issues.
the rapidly growing chinese economy should shift its focus to low-carbon technologies and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, otherwise it will remain a climate change problem.
− i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls on all stakeholders in the cotton sector to work together, without further delay, through the international cotton advisory committee to minimise environmental degradation (water footprints and the use of pesticides, insecticides).
they are to fight for human and labour rights and environmental pollution throughout the cotton value chain.
it is therefore essential to combat human and labour rights violations and environmental pollution throughout the cotton value chain, including the textile and clothing sectors.
the sustainability of the cotton sector depends, among other things, on its producers, traders, raw material suppliers, textile producers, wholesalers, brands, governments, civil society and consumers, as fair trade systems allow for closer cooperation between consumers and producers.
the whole cotton value chain must be more sustainable, based on a long-term and coherent system.
the enhanced mandate will ensure a smooth and efficient operating environment.
regulation (ec) no 812/2004, which has serious shortcomings, focuses on the use of acoustic equipment to prevent incidental capture of cetaceans, despite the fact that those animals face various threats such as habitat destruction, collision with ships and underwater noise pollution.
the eu and the republic of mauritius maintained fisheries relations until 2007, but the parties did not renew the agreement after it expired in 2003-2007. the proposal is a new partnership agreement that will help preserve the eu's ability to fish in the east african region's fishing zones and provide a stable legal environment for eu vessels and their dependent sectors.
the new fisheries partnership agreement and the new protocol will help the eu to preserve the ability to fish in the fishing areas of the east african region and to maintain the viability of the european sector by creating a stable legal environment for eu vessels and their dependent sectors.
the new fisheries partnership agreement and the new protocol will help the eu to maintain the ability to fish in the agreed fishing areas of the east african region and to maintain the viability of the european sector by providing a stable legal environment and predictability for eu vessels and their dependent sectors in the medium term.
another important aspect is that the partnership system will be based on a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible use of fisheries resources.
it should be noted that the conclusion of this agreement will not have any negative impact on the economy, society or the environment.
it is also essential to adapt the training offered to the needs of the workforce and the business environment in the region.
it is also essential to adapt the training offered to the needs of the workforce and the business environment in the region.
it is also essential to adapt the training offered to the needs of the workforce and the business environment in the region.
− i voted in favour of this report because the eu emissions trading system is the most important tool for reducing industrial pollution in the eu in a cost-effective and efficient way.
despite the fact that emissions have decreased since the introduction of the eu emissions trading system, there are currently significant inconsistencies in the system.
the current economic crisis, combined with the large volume of external carbon credits linked to the clean development mechanism and the many regulatory provisions related to the transition to the third trading period (2013-2020), has resulted in a clear surplus of allowances.
as the surplus of allowances far exceeds demand, the price of carbon dioxide has fallen from eur 30 per tonne to eur 7 per tonne.
this decline in the price of carbon is in contrast to the significant increase in sustainable scientific and technological innovation and is therefore a disincentive to invest in low-carbon technology and a growing risk of the european union becoming dependent on carbon-intensive infrastructure.
in addition, the list of carbon leakage sectors should be revised to include energy-efficient sectors with relatively low carbon emissions.
it has long been clear that the eu's emissions trading scheme cannot function as a stand-alone economic instrument operating in a free market.
unfortunately, without it, we are left with a largely ineffective eu climate change policy.
it is noted that the excess allowances not only reduce the price of carbon dioxide but also the investment in low-carbon technologies.
timelines for the auctioning of greenhouse gas emission allowances are an effective measure that does not adversely affect the stability of the trading system and does not distort markets.
− i voted in favour of this resolution on the greenhouse gas emission allowance system.
given that greenhouse gas emissions from aviation have increased by around 100% since 1990 and continue to increase, this issue needs to be addressed.
the aviation greenhouse gas emissions trading system is too moderate, requiring other industries to reduce emissions by 21%, while aviation is only required to reduce emissions by 5%.
however, we, the members of the european parliament, support the agreement reached with the council on the temporary (up to one year) exemption from the emissions allowance system for international flights to and from eu airports.
intercontinental flights to and from the european union, involving airlines from both eu and non-eu countries, will be exempted from the emissions allowance system for one year.
i agree with the rapporteur that this decision can be seen not as a measure aimed at the application of european environmental standards at global level but as a measure aimed at identifying the most appropriate approaches to a common problem.
− i voted in favour of this proposal on a greenhouse gas emission allowance system.
the proposal aims to temporarily exempt international flights from the emissions trading scheme, allowing the international civil aviation organisation (icao) to conclude negotiations on international co2 regulation.
i support the proposals made to seek to agree in international negotiations market-based measures to ensure that the aviation sector is subject to the same pressure to reduce pollution as other sectors.
since 1990, aviation greenhouse gas emissions have increased by about 100 per cent.
the aviation sector is distinguished by its international character and a global approach to tackling the rapidly increasing pollution from international aviation would be the most appropriate, as it is the most effective way to reduce aviation emissions.
under the united nations framework convention on climate change, all countries are required to develop and implement national and, where appropriate, regional programmes that include measures to mitigate the effects of climate change.
the union is committed to reducing its co2 emissions, including those from the aviation sector.
they should understand that europe wants to reach an international agreement, is open to negotiating the best market-based measures, but does not intend to wait indefinitely for the aviation pollution issue to be addressed in the same way as other sectors.
− the inclusion of the aviation sector in the eu emissions trading scheme is a natural step towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector.
while supporting today's decision to postpone the inclusion of third country airlines in the eu atl scheme, i call on both the eu and the rest of the world to adopt as soon as possible an international agreement to combat climate change in the aviation sector.
− greenhouse gas pollution from the aviation sector is a problem not only for the eu but also for the world.
it is worth noting that the sector is experiencing rapid increases in greenhouse gas emissions, which require global cooperation.
joint research projects and measures should be developed to mitigate the climate change impact of the aviation sector.
i believe that more favourable market measures should be applied to emissions from international aviation.
it is also necessary to ensure that the regulation adopted does not have a negative impact on the environment.
currently, market access is restricted for the services listed in categories 3, 4, 5 and 7. since the opening of the market for ground services, airlines have been able to achieve steady reductions in charges for these services, but this market must be opened in a sustainable manner.
new issues related to support for development through trade, such as differentiation of development levels, support for local production, and the promotion of social and environmental standards, need to be taken more into account.
developing countries should also be encouraged to make sustainable economic development a goal that forms part of the overall set of policies, strategies and actions taken at national level to diversify their economies.
− i voted in favour of this proposal because this important trade instrument is designed to enable developing countries to participate more actively in international trade and to obtain additional export revenues and to support income growth and the implementation of their own sustainable development and poverty reduction policies.
particular attention should be paid to foreign direct investment, by creating a transparent, investment-friendly environment.
trade between the eu and developing countries should be based on the octs, high social and environmental standards.
it is necessary to help developing countries to improve their domestic business environment and to meet international standards of quality, labour and environmental protection.
− i voted for this report because trade and investment between the eu, developing countries and least developed countries is a tool to promote sustainable and inclusive growth for all countries, facilitating the transfer of technologies and skills and helping to create jobs.
in this context, it is necessary to improve the cis in order to give greater emphasis to the development dimension, to achieve a balance between the rights and obligations of states and investors, to ensure sufficient political space for sustainable development policy and to make the provisions on investment promotion more specific and aligned with the objectives of sustainable development.
it is important to emphasise that foreign direct investment does not in itself have a positive impact on development, and this requires appropriate regulation covering policy areas outside investment policy, such as trade, taxation, intellectual property, competition, labour market regulation, environmental policy and access to land, etc.
it is also necessary to take into account the needs and opportunities of the beneficiary countries and to promote processes such as regional integration, which can provide better opportunities to benefit from such interactions, and to give priority to measures aimed at promoting sustainable and inclusive development, job creation and capacity building, developing human capital and thereby reducing social inequalities, increasing resilience to economic shocks, supporting the development of the private sector, in particular micro-enterprises, as well as micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to encourage their participation in trade and investment activities at local, regional, cross-border, bilateral and multilateral levels, improving fiscal governance and combating corruption, tax evasion and tax avoidance, money laundering and tax havens, as well as providing technical assistance to ensure the control of investment and investment by firms, and facilitating the development of trade, as well as to provide the necessary technical assistance to facilitate the development of trade, by establishing mechanisms to control investment and trade flows, and by facilitating the development of trade, including the various technical measures necessary to facilitate trade.
the communication also identifies priority areas in which investment should be encouraged to create the necessary supply and infrastructure, such as support for self-employed farmers in agriculture, improvement of the business and investment environment in industry, development of legal certainty in the services sector, dissemination of good practice in administration, etc.
i believe that economic growth is inextricably linked to sustainable economic development not only in the eu but also in the surrounding regions.
eu support is essential for sustainable, inclusive growth and poverty reduction.
the agricultural, industrial and service sectors must be the basis for the implementation of measures to promote sustainable economic growth and development.
the policy of reckless austerity is not very austere in the face of an infinite society, and the same policy of reckless waste in maintaining a bureaucratic apparatus is causing difficulties for many of the population and could be the cause of the deterioration of the eu.
abuse and waste of funds must be prevented.
as regards the coordination of development aid, it is important to focus more on sustainability.
only transparent and well-functioning trade relations can ensure sustainable sources of revenue.
however, greater efforts must be made to preserve the best possible working environment for the future.
− i voted in favour of this proposal for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2011. the court concluded that there was a need to make recruitment procedures more transparent, endorsing calls for the agency to further address this issue and to report to the discharge authority on the actions taken.
− i voted in favour of certifying the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators that the agency's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented.
the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the agency for the cooperation of european energy regulators ('the agency') for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations carried out on the basis of those accounts are legal and regular.
− i did not support the proposal to postpone the discharge decision for the european environment agency for 2011. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted thereunder have been legal and regular.
− i voted in favour of the adoption of the decision confirming to the executive director of the european environment agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented.
the court of auditors did, however, state that it had received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2011 were reliable and that the financial operations carried out on the basis of those accounts were legal and regular.
the european agency, an internationally recognised organisation, is the main provider of information and knowledge on the environment, with a growing number of functions.
it should be noted that the agency's founding regulation has recently been revised and given additional tasks which can be carried out more economically at european level than at national level, thus strengthening pollution prevention in the european maritime sector.
it not only coordinates and finances the research programmes of the member states, but also ensures the security and safety of nuclear energy supply.
i believe that the new regulation will remove barriers to business innovation, ensure fair competition and strengthen the competitive environment.
its purpose is to define and implement a research agenda for the development of key technologies for embedded computing systems in a wide range of applications, with a view to promoting european competitiveness and sustainability and enabling the emergence of new markets and the application of technologies for the benefit of society.
the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy was established in march 2007 for a period of 35 years and started to operate autonomously in march 2008. i support the calls made by the european parliament for the full implementation and use of the integrated tool for budgetary, financial and operational information.
− i have voted in favour of certifying the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy that the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2011 has been implemented.
the court of auditors has informed that it has received a reasoned opinion regarding the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the financial transactions underlying them for the financial year 2011. in this case, the closure of the accounts of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2011 is also approved.
a favourable business and investment environment is one of the criteria for eu membership, and there must also be clear progress.
investment in sustainable agriculture and continued food subsidies are needed as one of the key measures to combat food shortages.
under the eu waste shipping regulation, exports of hazardous waste from the eu to countries outside the organisation for economic cooperation and development (oecd) have been prohibited since 1998. any ship carrying various hazardous materials and which is towed out of the eu for dismantling is itself a dangerous vessel.
such non-compliance has negative effects both on the environment and on human health.
− i voted in favour of this report because there is currently fierce and unfair competition between recyclers in the main recycling countries (bangladesh, india and pakistan) and their higher technical standards competitors (eu, turkey and china) and because the current legislation does not take into account the characteristics of ships and it is difficult to determine when ships become waste, which could avoid the legal obligation to deregister ships.
most shipowners try to make the most profit by selling their vessels to places where there are no labour and environmental standards and therefore they can offer the highest price.
− the proper recycling of waste, whatever its form and size, is essential to ensure a high level of environmental protection.
the dismantling of ships under conditions harmful to man and the environment must be prohibited.
in order to contribute adequately to waste prevention, the use of hazardous materials on board ships should be limited and safer and greener ship recycling operations should be promoted.
croatia's accession to the eu family is a confirmation of the sustainability and continuity of the eu's enlargement policy.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
as rapporteur for envi, i wanted to pay even more attention to the environment.
the text of the position reflects most of the proposals of the committee on the environment and the socialist and democratic group.
member states will only be able to grant licences for offshore extraction activities after an early and transparent public consultation and an environmental impact assessment.
the financial capacity of applicants to cover possible environmental and economic losses in the event of accidents will be taken into account, if provided for by national law.
complaints about safety and environmental breaches in extraction will be dealt with without prejudice to the anonymity of the reporting persons.
as rapporteur for the committee on the environment, i had to come down because the member states of the european union maintain sovereignty in the exploitation of natural resources on their territory.
however, i would call on the countries of the european union to pursue the highest possible environmental standards, both through the arctic council and through the united nations structures.
i agree with the importance of ensuring synergies with the work of the european aviation safety agency in areas such as safety and environmental issues and the establishment of a joint committee responsible for the administration and application of the agreement.
the agreement also aims to ensure interoperability with the work of the european aviation safety agency in areas such as safety-related air traffic management issues and environmental protection issues.
the main aspects of this agreement are: the confirmation of eurocontrol as the technical and operational eu body for the development and implementation of the bed project; the listing of areas of cooperation and the definition of modalities and mechanisms for cooperation; the aim of ensuring interoperability with the work of the european aviation safety agency (easa) in areas such as safety-related air traffic management issues and environmental protection issues.
the appropriations must be used only for the costs of archiving and any waste or misuse of funds must be prevented.
effective policies need to be developed in areas such as cohesion, economic governance, competitiveness, research and innovation, energy, the digital agenda, sustainable development, cultural and creative industries, new skills and employment and others.
the problems of industrial regions also need to be addressed in a way that takes account of social, economic, environmental and historical aspects.
this document is a step towards a more stringent environmental policy in the european union.
i strongly support the common position that the monitoring of safety and environmental impact of oil and gas production should be independent and coordinated between member states.
this is important to ensure a uniform level of environmental protection throughout the european union.
pollution has no boundaries.
in view of the number of accidents on oil rigs and the extent of the damage to the environment, i support the rapporteur's position that the standards for oil and gas extraction should be tightened.
it is also important to ensure that the authorities responsible for the assessment of the safety and environmental risks of operations are independent of the authorities responsible for issuing permits for drilling.
− i voted in favour of this report because major accidents related to offshore oil and gas operations can have devastating and irreversible consequences for the marine and coastal environment and can also have a significant negative impact on the coastal economy.
the aim should be to minimise the number and impact of major accidents related to offshore oil and gas operations, thereby increasing protection of the marine environment and the coastal economy from pollution, establishing the conditions necessary for the safe exploration and production of oil and gas at sea and limiting the potential disruption of the local energy production resources of the european union, and improving the emergency response mechanisms.
in line with best practice in the european union, the installation's licence holders and/or operators must establish an effective company safety and environmental policy to establish appropriate major accident prevention procedures and to identify in detail and systematically all major hazard scenarios associated with all hazardous activities that may be carried out with the installation, including the environmental impact of a major accident.
control and emergency measures are also required, with a comprehensive safety and environmental management system and an emergency plan for the installation.
a major accident at any european offshore installation can cause material losses, damage to the environment, the economy, local communities and society, and can threaten the life and health of workers.
offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production is a complex and environmentally hazardous activity, which must be carried out with environmental safety as a priority.
the extraction of thousands of tonnes of black gold must be done in a way that protects the environment.
it is very important to properly assess the fact that oil and gas operations in one country can have very serious negative effects on the environment in another country.
this is a renewable energy issue, an important issue for many reasons, and the report lists them, namely both energy independence (we currently get 50% of our energy from third countries) and energy security, low prices that can be achieved through market liberalisation and competition.
while the number of renewable countries in the european union is growing, the problems we face are also becoming clear.
the mff document, which parliament rejected, also illustrates parliament's frustration at the lack of funding for research, which is also needed for renewable energy.
− i voted in favour of this resolution on the current challenges and opportunities for renewable energy in the european energy market.
i agree with the rapporteur that the potential for renewable energy supply is not yet fully exploited at european level, that the market for renewable energy is growing and that it is increasingly important in the overall energy context.
it is therefore essential to take a structured and forward-looking approach to renewable energy sources.
by 2030, targets must be set for the use of energy from renewable sources.
each eu country must also aim to achieve a share of at least 30% of the total resource mix from green energy by 2030. i would stress that the use of renewable energy not only combats climate change and increases europe's energy independence, but also provides significant additional environmental benefits through reduced air pollution, waste generation and water use.
moreover, the strong growth of the renewable energy sector will not only have a positive impact on european industry, prices and the further development of existing and new technologies, but could also lead to the creation of more than 3 million jobs by 2030.
in writing.
the lisbon treaty gives member states the right to define their own energy mix and therefore the mix varies considerably between member states.
however, common eu objectives are being set, such as completing the internal market for gas and electricity, increasing the share of renewable energy in the overall eu energy mix, etc.
renewable energy sources can be important in the long term in combating climate change and increasing europe's energy independence, but as far as eu energy policy is concerned, i agree that it must be pursued with a constant balance between security of supply, competitiveness, economic efficiency and environmental sustainability.
− i voted in favour of this report because the eu is currently dependent on energy imports, which account for more than half of its final energy consumption.
the commission's energy action plan to 2050 concludes that any scenario for the european energy system requires a substantially higher share of energy from renewable sources.
in addition, the eu's renewable energy policy has benefited the eu economy and helped create more than 500 000 jobs.
however, the supply of renewable energy sources to the transmission grid is decentralised, remote from load centres, weather dependent and variable, and requires an energy infrastructure different from the current one, which has been developed on the basis of conventional energy sources only.
in addition, the possibility of cooperation mechanisms and trade with third countries should be explored in order to better exploit the potential of renewable energy sources.
− i supported this proposal to set binding targets for the use of energy from renewable sources by 2030 and to aim for a share of green energy in the total resource mix of at least 30% by then.
a secure, reliable, affordable and sustainable supply of energy is essential for the competitiveness of european industry and the economy.
almost half of the eu's power plants will need to be replaced over the next decade, and the energy supply system will need to be upgraded and made considerably more flexible to allow for an increase in the share of renewable energy.
the share of renewable energy in electricity generation, heating and cooling and transport should be increased in a cost-effective manner, taking into account all the benefits and all the costs associated with renewable energy, including system costs, and without compromising security of energy supply.
the increasing competitiveness of renewable energy technologies and the fact that renewable energy resources and clean technology-related industries are important factors for the growth of european competitiveness, with a high potential for creating new jobs and contributing significantly to the development of new industries and export markets, should be recognised.
renewable energy is becoming more popular and plays a greater role in the energy supply chain.
this is a great opportunity to reduce europe's dependence on conventional energy sources and to ensure a secure, reliable, sustainable and affordable energy supply.
the implementation of the renewable energy targets would be another major step towards a single internal european energy market and reduce disparities between member states.
the commission should take more active steps to set an eu-wide binding 2030 target for renewable energy sources, following in-depth analyses and impact assessment measures.
the impact of renewable energy is visible: the use of fossil fuels is reduced, global warming is reduced, new jobs are created.
the technologies used to produce renewable energy are rapidly improving.
the price of this energy has fallen considerably.
the calculations show that the most advanced renewable energy plants are able to produce electricity cheaper than new nuclear power plants.
the main challenge for the social democrats in this area is, in particular, the strong europeanisation of the development of renewable sources.
we call on the eu and its member states to invest in this energy infrastructure - the development of distribution networks and their interconnections.
this should grow into a european grid for the distribution of affordable energy.
i voted in favour of this report because it also calls on eu countries to provide more security for the private sector investing in renewable energy.
− i have endorsed this important report, which considers the commission's plan to ensure adequate, secure and sustainable pensions.
new policy solutions are therefore needed to ensure that pension systems are sustainable, secure and responsive to people's expectations.
the economic and financial crisis has been a serious test for the financial sustainability of pension systems.
it is necessary to find other ways to increase the financial sustainability of pension systems.
i believe that a sound governance framework for the public financial system is the key to achieving adequate, secure and sustainable pensions.
the european parliament calls on eu countries to reform their pension systems to make them even more secure and sustainable.
tax policy should stimulate the economy, inter alia, by creating tax structures that stimulate aggregate demand in the long term, facilitate export-oriented activities and create jobs and promote sustainable development.
progress in the implementation of the audiovisual media services directive ensures the competitiveness and sustainable financing of audiovisual media services.
the modernised customs code regulation aims to adapt customs legislation to the electronic customs and trade environment.
i believe that reforms should focus on employment, the functioning of goods and services markets, network industries, tax systems, financial stability and fiscal sustainability.
europe's fiscal capacity should be further developed and structural reforms for sustainable growth should be implemented in a timely manner, supporting the principle that action to promote greater accountability and economic discipline should be combined with greater solidarity and greater integration of decision-making in policy areas such as taxation and labour markets.
given that the eu and the us are the two most important actors in global trade and investment, all possible avenues for closer cooperation and the benefits of international trade must be exploited for a sustainable global economic recovery.
it is essential to exploit the untapped potential of a genuine integrated transatlantic market in order to create as many jobs as possible and to increase the potential for smart, robust, sustainable and balanced growth.
the economic and social crisis cannot be a justification for lower social, environmental and labour standards than those applied before the crisis.
in addition, the precautionary principle should be given particular attention when dealing with environmental and other sensitive issues, particularly those related to the use of gmos.
responsible and sustainable trade and investment, including with or by the european union, can help myanmar (burma) to fight poverty and ensure that the benefits of measures reach a wider population.
− the renewal of the gsp benefits for myanmar depends solely on the progress made by the country itself and the stability, irreversibility and sustainability of the reforms carried out.
the alpine region is multi-country, its economic capacity is diverse, and the region faces increasing environmental, demographic, transport infrastructure and other challenges.
these countries are linked by a macro-region with different economic capacities and increasing environmental, demographic, transport infrastructure, tourism and energy-related challenges, and coordination of internal and external policies of all stakeholders could yield better results and additional benefits.
such an alpine strategy would effectively address the common challenges facing the entire alpine region, exploit its significant potential in a consistent manner and meet the need to improve mobility, energy security, environmental protection, socio-economic situation, cultural exchanges and civil security in the alpine region.
the strategy will help to make more effective use of existing resources in addressing a range of issues related to demographic change, transport infrastructure, tourism and energy.
it will also allow us to respond more effectively to the emerging common challenges of climate change and the environment.
it will ultimately contribute to the objectives of the eu's europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the macro-regional strategy for the alps will help the region to find the right answer to the questions of sustainable and sustainable development.
the commission should do more to promote responsible behaviour by eu companies operating abroad and to ensure compliance with international standards and rules in the fields of human rights, labour and environmental protection.
it is essential that countries such as bangladesh properly respect the agreed labour directives and core environmental commitments and ensure transparency of labour standards at production sites, especially where european companies are present.
it should be noted that the gsp is the eu's main trade policy instrument for promoting fundamental human and labour rights and sustainable development.
firstly, it is necessary to draw the attention of member states to energy poverty, where people with housing are unable to pay their heating bills.
member states should take additional measures to reduce energy poverty through the application of social energy tariffs, the provision of social support, guarantees to households against energy supply interruptions, and the improvement of energy efficiency of housing.
in may 2012, the european commission published a draft european consumer agenda, with the main priorities of ensuring food safety and security in the areas of healthcare, energy, financial and digital products.
it is essential to include food safety and labelling aspects in the consumer agenda and to discuss the problem of food waste, considering the need to ensure the safety of the food supply chain from production to consumption.
it is also necessary to provide the user with a secure digital environment and access to telecommunications networks, in compliance with the provisions on the protection of personal data.
− i voted for this report because ensuring food safety and security in the areas of healthcare, energy, finance and digital products should be one of the top priorities on the european consumer agenda.
− i supported this proposal as the top priority of the european consumer agenda should be to ensure food safety and security in the areas of healthcare, energy, financial and digital products.
a consumer agenda is needed to reduce consumer inequalities in europe and to help build a low-carbon economy.
− i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that improvements are necessary, especially in the working environment, to ensure better health and safety protection for workers.
− i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to show how the social housing sector can help the european union overcome the economic, social and environmental crisis.
i would like to stress that member states must inevitably address energy poverty where people with housing are unable to pay their heating bills.
they should take additional measures to reduce energy poverty through the application of social energy tariffs, social support, guarantees to ensure that households do not lose energy supply, and the energy efficiency of housing.
− i voted in favour of this report because it aims to show how the social housing sector can help the european union to overcome the economic, social and environmental crisis.
i would therefore like to stress the importance of building renovation in the fight against energy poverty.
the renovation of housing will also have a positive impact on the fight against climate change, while also contributing to the regeneration of the construction sector and the creation of green jobs.
it is also essential to address the problem of 'women's waste of mind', i.e.
iuu fishing is one of the greatest threats to marine biodiversity and can cause food security problems in many coastal and developing countries.
however, illegal fishing is one of the greatest threats to marine biodiversity and can cause food security problems in many coastal and developing countries.
as they are caught in defiance of environmental, social and other standards, fishermen are usually able to sell them at a lower price.
it provides for a more predictable environment in relations between member states and more favourable conditions for the reunification of vulnerable persons, in particular unaccompanied minors, with family members or relatives.
i support the proposed amendments to ensure a more sustainable and transparent implementation of the project and the use of member states' funds.
improving the regulatory environment and access to capital for small and medium-sized issuers is an important priority that has been taken into account in the update of the provisions of the directive.
this uncertainty distorts markets, allows tax avoidance and prevents investors from being informed about the long-term sustainability of companies.
it is important to note that member states should not necessarily have more expenditure but should use the funds more efficiently and effectively in order to increase the sustainability of social investment policies.
− budgetary discipline in the euro area should be assessed not only in terms of fiscal and macroeconomic indicators, but also in terms of employment and social indicators, which should receive equal attention, and in terms of progress reports on structural reforms, in order to ensure an adequate level of social investment in the member states and thus ensure the long-term sustainability of the european union's social model.
differences within and between member states are increasing, and there is no adequate regulation to guarantee a minimum, adequate and sustainable level of social protection across the eu.
only through the proper implementation of regional policy objectives and the provision of state aid can balanced, sustainable and long-term development of the regions be ensured.
it is essential to align eu competition policy with all other eu policies, including sectoral regulation, to ensure that the internal market for products and services functions well from the point of view of citizens, the environment and businesses.
i would also like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the energy sector, which has been placed under the eu's competence following the lisbon treaty.
i believe that any further initiative for a strong ems based on stability, sustainable growth, solidarity and democracy would be implemented in accordance with the community method.
only a strong and effective epc based on stability, sustainable growth, solidarity and democracy.
it is important to remove barriers to cross-border placements in order to ensure better opportunities for young people to learn in a supply-and-demand environment and to encourage voluntary mobility of young people.
however, despite comparing different economies and growing service sectors, these countries are still exporting goods, so managing infrastructure and business environment is very important in order to achieve sustainable economic growth.
it should be noted that, despite the long tradition of regional integration, the creation of a relatively large, effective regional interregional trade, energy and transport network is an important priority.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the prevention of pollution.
the transatlantic partnership is thus based on strong political, cultural, economic and historical links, shared values and common objectives (welfare, an open and integrated economy, sustainable development, etc.).
− i voted in favour of this report, as the european union and the usa, despite economic crises, should continue to play a major constructive role in the world of politics and economics, shaping the international environment.
only then, after a political solution has been found for mali's reconstruction, will a clear and sustainable economic development strategy be developed to address unemployment and thus improve the living conditions of the population.
− i voted in favour of this resolution because the european union has supported the reconstruction and development of afghanistan since 2002 and because it continues to seek a peaceful transition in afghanistan, its inclusive and sustainable development and stability and security for the whole region.
it is linked to a host of other problem areas, such as climate change, migration, corruption, unsustainable growth and others.
international nuclear liability is governed by two instruments: the vienna convention and the 1960 paris convention on third party liability in the field of nuclear energy.
the vienna convention was adopted to provide adequate and fair compensation for the victims of nuclear accidents and it establishes a specific civil liability regime in the field of nuclear energy.
− i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to establish a civil liability system in the field of nuclear energy and to provide for compensation for the victims of nuclear accidents.
it is important to note that the provisions of the protocol adopted by the international atomic energy agency on 12 september 1997 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments affect the provisions of eu law, in particular the brussels i regulation.
international nuclear liability is governed by two instruments: the vienna convention and the 1960 paris convention on third party liability in the field of nuclear energy.
in order to promote sustainable, progressive and inclusive economic growth, state aid should be compatible with the internal market.
this is very important for the environment.
however, in order to further improve the quality of the environment, it is necessary to seek to ensure that high environmental standards are also implemented in third countries and these issues should also be included in the aviation content of the eu's external policy.
in designing, developing and implementing their national export credit schemes and in monitoring the performance of officially supported export credit activities, member states should be guided by the union's general provisions on external action, such as those relating to the consolidation of democracy, respect for human rights and a consistent development policy, and the fight against climate change.
− i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to ensure the roadworthiness of motor vehicles and to ensure its application in order to improve road safety and environmental protection.
it should be noted that in order to be authorised for placing on the market, a vehicle must meet the applicable type or individual approval requirements which guarantee an optimum level of safety and environmental standards.
the annual reports of the member states and the translation of these reports by the commission do not correspond nearly to parliament's wish to be able to assess this compliance, as there is still no agreement on the methodology for the assessment, especially on non-financial issues such as environmental impact, etc.
− the european union funds invest large sums for the benefit of society in areas such as education, research, social care and health, the environment, talent development, youth and sport, and arts and culture.
member states would have more money to spend on education, research, social care and health, culture and environmental protection.
to meet the needs of people living in the eu, strict requirements for transparency, sustainability, accountability and oversight must be applied across the eu.
ships which do not comply with the standards are not acceptable from the point of view of workers' rights, safety, security and environmental protection of the ship, and this is the responsibility of the shipowners, masters and flag states.
high standards of ship safety, environmental and social protection are key factors in achieving the objectives pursued.
this will prevent threats not only to human life but also to the marine environment.
− i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to support and ensure the application of roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles to improve road safety and environmental protection.
− i voted in favour of this report because it is important to support and ensure the application of roadworthiness testing for motor vehicles in order to improve road safety and environmental protection.
− for road safety and environmental protection, it is essential to ensure that vehicles placed on the market remain in good condition throughout their lifetime.
the commission has presented new roadworthiness rules to further improve road safety and ensure a high level of environmental protection.
for these reasons, the european commission has introduced new roadworthiness rules to further improve road safety and ensure a high level of environmental protection.
− i have voted in favour of this document, which establishes a list of chemicals that pose a serious threat to or through the eu's aquatic environment.
chemical pollution is one of the reasons for the continuously increasing impact on the aquatic environment and the availability and quality of safe and clean water.
therefore, one of the most important aspects of sustainable water management is the implementation of appropriate water chemical pollution control measures.
the commission proposal amends the water framework directive and the environmental quality standards directive in order to update the list of priority substances in the field of water policy, as required to be done at least every four years under the water framework directive.
− i voted in favour of this report because chemical pollution of water is one of the main concerns of the citizens of the european union.
it is important to note that according to the eurobarometer survey of 3 july 2012, 68% of europeans consider water quantity and quality problems to be serious, and 80% say that chemical pollution is a threat to the aquatic environment.
for these reasons, the commission has therefore proposed to raise public awareness through information and communication actions on the results and impacts of measures to prevent pollution of surface water.
measures to prevent water pollution should not just be written into eu documents but should become a common interest for all eu citizens.
− i voted in favour of this document because chemical pollution is affecting the ever-increasing impact on the water environment and the availability and quality of safe and clean water in our society.
therefore, it is essential to implement measures to control chemical pollution.
the water framework directive, adopted in 2000, sets out strategies to combat pollution, lists chemicals that pose a serious threat to or through the eu's aquatic environment, and provides for compliance standards.
the commission proposal amends the water framework directive and the environmental quality standards directive to update the list of priority substances in the field of water policy.
− the eu's environmental policy is based on scientific achievements and available information.
the strengthening of water legislation is a necessary and inevitable step in the face of the increasing pollutant levels in waste water.
on the other hand, the question of water pollution by pharmaceutical substances must also be finally resolved as soon as possible, and i hope that the commission will present a strategic approach to this issue as soon as possible.
a good quality of the water environment is a key objective not only for the eu but also for each member state.
the preservation of a balanced aquatic environment is essential for the whole ecosystem and for human health.
common, stringent measures to control chemical pollution of water must be applied in the eu.
i believe that it is appropriate to update and extend the list of priority substances in the field of water policy in order to ensure good chemical and ecological status of water.
in view of the potential threat to the aquatic environment in the eu, an assessment of the effects on humans, animals and plants should be carried out.
− many europeans consider water pollution to be one of the main environmental issues.
the water framework directive (wfd) was created in 2000 to address multiple facets of water policy, including strategies against pollution.
i support this proposal because it is important to keep our water bodies as free from pollution as possible.
therefore, even as we take new steps to reduce pollution, we must be sure that there is sufficient public awareness of how these policies are in the interest of all eu citizens.
through information and communications, people will be able to see what measures are being taken and how they impact the pollution of water bodies as well as the quality of everyday life.
these are aid to small and medium-sized enterprises, aid for research and technological development, environmental protection or employment and training, and aid in accordance with the guidelines for regional aid for each member state adopted by the commission.
these are: blue energy, aquaculture, marine and coastal tourism, extraction of marine mineral resources and blue technologies.
with a focus on smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, the commission presents blue growth as the maritime dimension of the europe 2020 strategy.
it is important to note that the establishment of an appropriate institutional framework for maritime and coastal sectors would open up many opportunities for innovation and sustainable development.
already, advanced underwater equipment is providing opportunities for eu scientists and businesses to use the sea to combat climate change, develop treatments for serious diseases, stockpile rare minerals and more.
these are: blue energy, aquaculture, marine and coastal tourism, extraction of marine mineral resources and blue technologies.
the second challenge is to ensure the integrated sustainability of blue growth, i.e.
to ensure that it does not harm the fragile marine environment and makes a significant contribution to combating climate change.
it is important to remember that a healthy and productive ecosystem is one of the key aspects of creating a competitive blue economy, and i would therefore encourage funding for blue biotechnologies, sustainable fisheries, aquaculture and the conservation of marine mineral resources.
it is worth noting that a sustainable european maritime economy is a rich source of innovation, growth and employment.
blue growth must deliver the greatest benefits and ensure high employment growth and integrated sustainability.
it is essential to reduce business costs and improve the investment environment.
it is clear that cooperatives play a very important role in the eu in terms of economic, social, sustainable development and employment, and in the implementation of social innovation.
this is essential in the implementation of both the europe 2020 strategy and the horizon 2020 programme to help achieve the objective of sustainable economic and social development of regional and local communities.
it is worth noting that in the energy sector they play a crucial role in increasing the use of renewable energy sources and improving energy efficiency.
with a growing world population, a rapidly increasing demand for food and energy resources, and a world facing a decline in natural resources, europe needs to consider a new approach to production and consumption to adapt to these new demands in an efficient and sustainable way.
the bioeconomy offers a great opportunity to address these challenges, not only by ensuring greater sustainability, but also by supporting rural development, by providing the potential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, by ensuring a more sustainable production cycle and by disseminating industrial innovation throughout the value chain.
the eu's bioeconomy sector has already reached a turnover of almost €2 trillion, with strong growth expected in sustainable primary production, food processing, industrial biotechnologies and biological processing.
i agree with the commission communication 'innovation for sustainable growth'.
it is important to note that the sustainable biomass supply of the eu will never be sufficient to meet current energy demand and growing and competing uses of biomass.
there is no doubt that new products, processes and services based on renewable resources would enable the eu to strengthen the competitiveness of its industry and to become a leader on an international scale.
the importance of healthy biodiversity and ecosystems for primary production in agriculture, forestry and fisheries should be particularly emphasised.
− i voted for this document because, with the world's population growing, the demand for food and energy increasing rapidly, and the world's natural resources declining, europe must consider a new approach to production and consumption.
the bioeconomy offers great opportunities to address these challenges, not only by ensuring greater sustainability, but also by supporting rural development and adapting and implementing environmental policies.
an economic model that delivers lower production costs, energy efficiency and a cleaner environment would also ensure more sustainable, efficient production, consumption, development and lifestyles and boost economic growth in europe.
the bioeconomy sector plays a crucial role in fostering innovation-driven growth and job creation in a low-carbon economy and in helping to reduce dependence on fossil fuels.
it is worth noting that the increasing consumption is bringing ever-growing pollution problems to the fore.
in order to ensure food and energy security and enhance european competitiveness, it is necessary to remove not only bureaucratic but also possible financial obstacles to innovation and other risks arising from the transition to the bioeconomy.
in addition, financial support measures should be made available for pre-commercial investments in the bioeconomy in order to meet the growing needs of consumers and avoid negative environmental impacts.
it is particularly needed in the field of energy security.
it is clear that the union must have a united voice, because only in this way can we guarantee the energy security of the member states.
there is another important energy issue.
but i am sure that each member of the community has been too long looking only at its own interests in energy, trade or politics.
what was observed during the last decade, and was encountered with different levels of sobriety and strength, was moscow’s overt policy of achieving energy hegemony over single member states and eventually the entire union.
it so happened that lithuania became a forerunner of the union’s policy of unbundling energy markets, turning them away from the temptations to dictate and demand obedience and towards fairness and cooperation.
europe is in a difficult situation at the moment, and there is no doubt that financial stability, energy security, economic growth, job creation and competitiveness are crucial conditions for improving people's social well-being.
a growing europe is a focus on our digital agenda, research and innovation, and an efficient single market, an energy market within the european union.
i'm talking about the taxation sector, i'm talking about the banking sector, i'm talking about the economic governance and, of course, the energy sector.
i welcome the fact that more funding is being allocated to the youth employment initiative in the first years of 2014 and 2015, but that a strong focus should be placed on 2016 as well, as additional funding will be needed to ensure the sustainability and effectiveness of this programme.
even when tackling eu-wide issues, funds cannot be diverted from areas of vital national interest, such as energy security.
the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) shall develop harmonised requirements at international level to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles of the parties to the revised 1958 agreement and to ensure that a high level of safety and environmental protection is guaranteed in the use of such vehicles.
the uniform technical standards will ensure a high level of safety and environmental protection.
the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) shall develop harmonised requirements at international level to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles of the parties to the revised 1958 agreement and to ensure that a high level of safety and environmental protection is guaranteed in the use of such vehicles.
it is essential that uniform safety and environmental protection standards are ensured throughout the union.
it is essential to ensure that technical assistance funds are used effectively, preventing any misuse or waste.
in order to strengthen the independence of olaf, to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of olaf investigations and to ensure a better protection of the eu's financial interests and to combat fraud, corruption and other illegal activities affecting those interests, the commission put forward a proposal for the revision of the current regulation back in 2006. the interinstitutional negotiations lasted for seven years before an agreement was finally reached on 25 july 2012. the new amendments would improve the functioning of olaf by providing for simpler, more transparent, shorter procedures, by defining more clearly the responsibilities and scope of the director-general of olaf, by extending the term of office of the director-general of olaf for a non-renewable period of up to 7 years, by consolidating the functions of the supervisory committee, the duration of the term of office and the powers to ensure that olaf can operate independently.
recent high-profile cases such as madoff and lehman brothers have highlighted a fundamental change in the field of ucits: the ucits provisions for depositaries have remained unchanged, while the ucits investment environment has evolved, and ucits have been able to invest in a wider range of financial assets that can be more complex, as well as issued and held in a depository outside the eu (for example in emerging markets).
− i voted in favour of this resolution and the referral back to the environment committee.
the eu emissions trading system is the most important tool to reduce industrial pollution in the eu in a cost-effective and efficient way.
in 2008, emissions fell by 10% after the start of the second trading period.
the initial objective was to create a market-based measure to stimulate the price of carbon dioxide, thereby encouraging investment in low-carbon technology and renewable energy.
however, the decrease in emissions in the second trading period could be strongly influenced by the economic downturn, which reduced economic activity and production.
as the surplus of allowances far exceeds demand, the price of carbon dioxide has fallen from eur 30 per tonne to eur 7 per tonne.
this decline in the price of carbon is in contradiction with the increase in sustainable scientific and technological innovation and therefore reduces the incentive to invest in low-carbon technologies and increases the risk of the european union becoming dependent on carbon-intensive infrastructure.
i believe that this issue needs to be considered in great detail and that an effective compromise needs to be found between the need to ensure the competitiveness of eu industry and eu climate change policy.
− i voted in favour of this report because it is a contribution by parliament to the amendment of directive 2003/87/ec to clarify the provisions on the timing of the auctioning of greenhouse gas emission allowances.
the eu emissions trading system is the key tool to reduce industrial pollution in the eu in a cost-effective and efficient way.
despite the fact that emissions have decreased since the introduction of the eu emissions trading system, there are currently significant inconsistencies in the system.
this decrease in the price of allowances is in contrast to the significant increase in sustainable scientific and technological innovation and therefore becomes a disincentive to invest in low-carbon technology and increases the risk of the european union becoming dependent on carbon-intensive infrastructure.
the report seeks to address the inconsistency in the current eu emissions trading system and proposes to adopt short-term and long-term measures.
in particular, the timing of the auctioning of greenhouse gas emission allowances should ensure fair competition.
at eu level, we need to support the development of innovative low-carbon technologies.
to address the challenges of the transition to a low-carbon economy as effectively as possible.
in addition, common measures should be established to reduce costs and carbon emissions in energy-intensive industrial sectors in a cost-effective and cost-effective manner.
only through joint efforts and effective measures will the eu have an effective emissions trading system.
this proposal for a decision builds on existing structures by supplementing them with the following measures: extension of the risk assessment and coordination measures currently applied to communicable diseases to cover all threats of biological, chemical or ecological origin; strengthening of the role of the health security committee to better coordinate crisis response measures; better preparedness for crises in the member states in coordination with the ec; possibility of recognising a european 'public health emergency' to speed up the provision of medicines needed to deal with a crisis; adoption by the european commission of emergency international measures at eu level in the event of an exceptional situation.
− latvia has successfully emerged from a severe economic recession and achieved sustainable and long-term results.
i believe that latvia will be able to continue to ensure fiscal consolidation, a stronger institutional environment and a reduction in the shadow economy.
it is closely linked to the fields of energy, environment, employment, education, youth, public health, research, innovation and technology, justice, insurance, trade and foreign policy.
it should be noted that speed is a major factor in the increase in road fatalities and greenhouse gas emissions.
however, there is a further need to strengthen the union's preventive capacity to respond to all types of natural disasters and to improve the effectiveness and coordination of the various union measures for the sustainable prevention of natural disasters.
it is therefore necessary to undertake sustainable reconstruction of areas destroyed or damaged by disasters in order to compensate for their economic, social and environmental losses.
the commission and the member states shall pay particular attention to the planning and review of sustainable land use policies, ecosystem uptake capacities and best practices, and the improvement of the capacity of flood control and drainage systems.
investments in disaster prevention support should be carried out in accordance with an ecosystem-based approach.
it is necessary to develop policies for sustainable land use, to increase the water-absorption capacity of ecosystems and to allocate funds to increase the capacity of flood control and drainage systems.
the recent floods in europe have had a devastating impact on human health, the environment, cultural heritage and economic activity.
i agree with the suggestions in the ep resolution that structural reform of the banking sector must reduce excessive risk, ensure competition, improve corporate governance and encourage banks to establish more transparent organisational structures, increase accountability and strengthen a reliable and sustainable remuneration system, and enable effective bank recovery and resolution.
in particular, fair, sustainable and more citizen-friendly tax systems are needed to combat tax evasion effectively.
it should be noted that the complex and unclear rules in place create an enabling environment for fraud.
the commission should present measures to preserve and strengthen the european model of a social market economy in order to reverse the damage caused by the long-term recession and to restore full employment and sustainable growth.
it is therefore necessary to take action and complete the current commission work programme by the end of its mandate, in particular on the single market for services, the digital agenda, the internal energy market, close cooperation and free trade agreements and the renewal of fair trade agreements.
the commission has a key role to play in ensuring that the eu's neighbouring countries adhere to the highest standards of nuclear safety and provide all requested information on nuclear energy projects being developed along the eu's external borders.
it is also time to strengthen the monitoring and evaluation of the transposition and implementation of the third energy package at eu level.
competition, adequate infrastructure and connections, smart technology, flexibility, sustainability, efficient consumption, an increasing share of renewable energy - these are the things we need to achieve in order to ensure that the eu's internal energy market meets the needs and expectations of its key players - end-users.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on promoting a european transport technology strategy for future sustainable mobility in europe.
this strategy should in particular promote quality of service, convenience for passengers and businesses, and sustainable mobility.
we, the members of the european parliament, stress the need to promote good practice in sustainable transport and to accelerate cooperation and the exchange of good practices between regions with similar development opportunities.
i agree with the rapporteur that research, innovation and investment in this area are an integral part of sustainable european mobility.
innovation and investment would allow for greater efficiency in transport technologies and economic, environmental and social benefits.
− i voted in favour of this proposal for a european transport technology strategy to promote a sustainable future of mobility in europe.
− i voted in favour of this report because it is important to have a european strategy that ensures that the balance is maintained between efforts to reduce the environmental impact of transport and those to ensure freedom of movement in the european union.
in addition, there is an urgent need to maximise the efficiency of european transport technologies to deliver economic, environmental and societal benefits, boosting sustainable growth and job creation.
the transport technology strategy should give priority to research supporting the easy, sustainable and safe mobility of the most vulnerable citizens.
− i voted in favour, as it is becoming clear that the union's targets for reducing energy consumption, noise, air pollutants, greenhouse gas emissions, accidents and land use are unlikely to be met, thus reducing the impact of transport on climate change and helping to improve the health and quality of life of eu citizens.
there is an urgent need to maximise the efficiency of european transport technologies to deliver economic, environmental and societal benefits, boosting sustainable growth and job creation.
the transport technology strategy should give priority to research supporting the easy, sustainable and safe mobility of the most vulnerable citizens.
− the european transport technology strategy is the foundation for sustainable european mobility.
progress is therefore needed in this sector to remove existing obstacles to transport development, quality of services, sustainable mobility.
in particular, the eu should operate an internal market in mortgage lending based on sustainable practices.
sustainable lending needs to be promoted continuously in order to restore consumer confidence and financial stability.
the commission intends to set, by means of delegated acts, the minimum limit value (expressed in annual co2 emissions, heat output or a combination thereof) to be applied to this exemption.
therefore, only information relating to the activities of the largest polluters participating in the eu greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme (typically those in the eu electricity sector) is likely to have a significant impact on carbon pricing.
− the protection of fish stocks in the baltic sea is one of the elements of the new common fisheries policy, sustainable fisheries.
in particular, environmental protection must be taken into account in the definition and implementation of the union's policies and activities, including in order to harmonise the regulation with the treaty of lisbon, on a case-by-case basis.
the commission has a crucial role to play in ensuring that the european union's neighbouring countries adhere to the highest standards of nuclear safety and provide all requested information on nuclear energy projects being developed along the european union's external borders.
it is also time to strengthen the monitoring and evaluation of the transposition and implementation of the third energy package at eu level.
− i voted in favour of this resolution on the internal energy market.
member states have committed themselves to completing the internal energy market by 2014 and to abolishing energy islands by 2015. as stated in the europe 2020 strategy, the internal energy market is necessary not only to consolidate the eu's overall energy security and sustainability, but also to increase the eu's global competitiveness, to accelerate economic growth and to create new jobs.
in other words, the development of local energy resources will create new trading hubs and new gas and electricity markets in the eu, creating a real opportunity for the eu and its member states to set their own energy prices.
i agree with the rapporteur that final energy consumers (individuals, small and medium-sized enterprises, industry) are the most important in a favourable and transparent internal energy market and that their information needs to be given special attention.
i would also like to stress that the internal energy market is not yet complete and that national energy markets are not meeting consumers' needs and expectations.
for example, there are unreasonably high energy prices, a limited number of suppliers or producers, a limited choice of tariffs, a low quality of service, etc.
− i voted in favour of this report because the internal energy market is essential to consolidate the overall energy security and sustainability of the union and contributes significantly to increasing the union's global competitiveness, boosting economic growth and creating jobs, as recognised in single market act ii and the europe 2020 strategy.
moreover, the european internal energy market and its respective national energy markets must be competitive and provide real choice and transparent information to all consumers, who play a key role in the energy market.
the european parliament's report focuses on the consumer, because the energy market must be consumer-oriented.
such measures will help consumers to better understand and manage their energy consumption, thereby enabling them to become more flexible and responsive (both in terms of demand and supply).
in addition, such measures can improve access to renewable energy and attract the necessary financial investments.
− i voted in favour of this proposal because an open, competitive, integrated and flexible european energy market will help to ensure security of supply and will allow for tariff reductions while providing transparency, will improve european competitiveness and will contribute to economic growth and consumer welfare, and it is therefore important to remove as soon as possible the physical, legal or regulatory barriers that hinder the opening up of the market and its effective functioning.
member states committed themselves to a clear deadline to complete the internal energy market by 2014 and to eliminate the eu's energy islands by 2015. it is necessary to modernise existing infrastructure and to develop new, advanced and flexible energy generation, transmission (in particular cross-border gas and electricity links), distribution and storage infrastructure, and to ensure that no member state is left isolated from the european gas and electricity networks by 2015.
in writing.
−the commitment to complete the internal energy market by 2014 and to eliminate the eu's energy islands by 2015 is already here.
however, the creation of an eu internal energy market requires further strengthening of cross-border cooperation and coordination of action at eu level.
it is important to ensure that member states lack the political will to fully implement the third energy package and related legislation, and to complete infrastructure and interconnection projects in a timely manner.
at the same time, it is necessary to continue antitrust measures and reduce the eu's dependence on fossil fuels by increasing the share of energy from renewable sources.
the eu must speak with one voice with third-country suppliers, both to help eu countries negotiate new supply contracts and to ensure the highest standards of nuclear safety in the eu's neighbourhood and the transparent functioning of the eu's internal energy market.
− as we are committed to completing the internal energy market by 2014 and to abolishing the eu's energy islands by 2015, it is essential to address the challenges of competitiveness, transparency and regulation in the energy sector in the eu energy markets as soon as possible.
in particular, the most cost-effective provision of flexible services in the energy sector must be ensured in order to stabilise and improve the key conditions for the european energy sector, as well as to promote sustainable energy supply.
it is necessary to reduce energy costs and prices to affordable and competitive levels and to ensure that consumers are protected from energy poverty.
it is also essential that the eu has safe, sustainable, affordable and reliable energy production methods.
− i voted in favour of this report, which calls on the countries of the european union to make every effort to complete the internal energy market by 2014. only by fully connecting all eu countries' energy networks will eu countries be in a strong position to negotiate the terms of supply of energy resources with third countries.
the commitment by eu member states to abolish eu energy islands by 2015 is of particular importance for lithuania.
investments in smart grids, renewable energy sources are still expensive, but the returns are also huge.
the international energy agency has rightly pointed out that decisive action could reduce eu gas imports by a third by 2035.
in writing.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on the implementation of energy efficiency measures and their impact on cohesion policy.
energy efficiency is a key aspect of europe's strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth - europe 2020 - and its benefits have long been recognised in the european union.
however, the eu faces major challenges in achieving its target of reducing total energy consumption by 20% by 2020. therefore, policies promoting energy efficiency could and should play a greater role.
i agree with the rapporteur that progress in energy efficiency is crucial for european competitiveness, job creation, economic growth at local and regional level and a useful tool in the fight against climate change.
for example, the majority of energy is still produced from hydrocarbons, which emit greenhouse gases when burned, and up to 50% is imported from non-eu countries.
moreover, investments in energy efficiency measures can deliver quick and tangible benefits to households and businesses.
i therefore call on the commission to disseminate more effectively to local and regional authorities practical information on energy efficiency and benefits, and on member states to encourage the exchange of best practices in setting up national energy efficiency funds.
− i voted in favour of this proposal on the implementation and impact of energy efficiency measures in cohesion policy.
the objective of the proposal is to improve energy efficiency.
i support calls for member states to set out in their operational programmes simple and non-bureaucratic procedures for the use of funds for energy efficiency improvements in housing.
it is also important to ensure that, under a decentralised arrangement, municipal authorities can directly access funding for energy efficiency improvements in housing.
i support calls for the commission to better disseminate information to local and regional authorities on energy efficiency and the benefits of investing in energy efficiency improvements.
the commission should improve the visibility of operational programmes and facilitate the access of potential beneficiaries who have proposed sustainable energy projects.
the importance of the building sector in contributing to energy efficiency should not be overlooked.
− i voted in favour of this report because energy efficiency is a key aspect of europe's strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth europe 2020 and its benefits have long been recognised in the european union.
however, the eu faces significant challenges in achieving its target of reducing total energy consumption by 20% by 2020, and policies promoting energy efficiency can and should play a greater role.
it should be noted that progress in energy efficiency is crucial for europe's competitiveness and represents a win-win opportunity in the fight against climate change.
investments in energy efficiency measures can deliver rapid and tangible benefits to households and businesses, such as cost reductions, as well as job opportunities and growth and the transition to a low-carbon economy.
cohesion policy is one of the main sources of support that can help the eu get back on track towards the energy efficiency target.
it should be noted that the commission has responded to this challenge by proposing to almost double the cohesion policy budget for climate-related expenditure, including energy efficiency, in the next programming period (2014-2020).
− i supported this proposal because energy efficiency is a key aspect of europe's strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, europe 2020, and its benefits have long been recognised in the european union.
however, the eu faces significant challenges in achieving its target of reducing total energy consumption by 20% by 2020, and policies promoting energy efficiency can and should play a greater role.
progress in energy efficiency is crucial for europe's competitiveness and represents a win-win opportunity in the fight against climate change.
investments in energy efficiency measures can deliver rapid and tangible benefits to households and businesses, such as cost reductions, as well as job opportunities and growth and the transition to a low-carbon economy.
to achieve greater energy efficiency, much greater efforts are needed to develop more efficient transport, housing and buildings.
only by stepping up financial commitments will europe be able to achieve its energy efficiency targets.
− ensuring energy efficiency is one of the necessary measures to achieve the goals of a low-carbon economy.
however, improvements in energy efficiency are often associated with costs that are often difficult to cover from own resources.
− i support the resolution presented, as much more effort is needed to achieve greater energy efficiency.
it should be noted that cohesion policy plays a crucial role in the implementation of energy policy, and therefore it is essential to reduce economic, social and territorial disparities between regions.
on the other hand, cost-effective energy efficiency improvements promote competitiveness, job creation and economic growth at local and regional levels.
therefore, more funding should be allocated to projects related to energy efficiency.
the construction and renovation of social housing should be carried out in order to meet energy efficiency objectives and standards.
it is also essential that new buildings achieve a high level of energy efficiency and that existing buildings are modernised.
the adriatic and ionian sea region, which comprises seven states italy, greece, slovenia, croatia, montenegro, albania and bosnia and herzegovina, is uneven in economic, environmental and cultural terms.
i agree with the rapporteur that closer cooperation with neighbouring countries is needed in areas such as the common fisheries management regime, ensuring sustainable use of resources, etc.
the aim of the proposal is to develop a new eu strategy for fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian seas to encourage the development of sustainable economic activities that would have a positive impact on coastal communities.
i welcome the proposals made to contribute to the eu's response to the challenges in this region, such as the development of the fisheries and aquaculture sectors, marine pollution, the economic disparities in coastal areas and the increasing urbanisation.
closer cooperation with neighbouring countries is needed to establish a common fisheries management system and ensure sustainable use of resources.
the main objective of such an eu strategy is to encourage the development of sustainable economic activities that would have a beneficial impact on coastal communities and adjacent land areas.
coastal countries share a wide range of resources, including fish stocks, and therefore all face different challenges, directly or indirectly linked to the development of the fisheries and aquaculture sectors, such as marine pollution, coastal erosion, differences in the economic development of coastal areas and increasing urbanisation.
− i have supported this proposal as it seeks to encourage the development of a new eu strategy for fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian seas, with the aim of fundamentally encouraging the development of sustainable economic activities that would have a beneficial impact on coastal communities and adjacent land areas.
this will provide the basis for the development of sustainable economic activities and employment in coastal areas.
in particular, the strategy should be implemented on the basis of an ecosystem-based approach.
the fisheries sector needs to be sustainable and productive, and therefore it is necessary to establish a common fisheries management regime and ensure the sustainable use of fish resources.
it is also essential that the most important environmental issues are integrated into the different policy areas.
statistics show that 2% of the european population is addicted to gambling, and the easy access to online gambling sites may not only worsen the situation but also create a favourable environment for criminal activities such as money laundering.
i would like to emphasise the particularly important role of enisa and the development of its competences and strengthening of its powers to ensure a secure online environment at the european union level.
− i voted in favour of this proposal on the ep's rights to appoint the executive directors of the european environment agency (eea).
using waste or seaweed.
these new rules would help to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the increasing use of land for biofuel-recyclable crops.
i support the proposals set out above to ensure that by 2020 the share of first generation biofuels produced from food crops should not exceed 5,5% of the energy consumed in the transport sector and that the share of advanced biofuels should be at least 2% of that amount.
it is also important to take into account the fact that food production is being replaced by the production of biofuels, as land is increasingly used for the cultivation of these fuels, with the consequent increase in greenhouse gas emissions.
therefore, indirect land-use change may partially undermine the environmental benefits of biofuels.
i also support the energy committee's proposal that the share of first generation biofuels should not exceed 6.5%.
i understand that this decision is not a good fit for traditional biofuel producers, who face some legal uncertainty, but i am convinced that the eu must be a global leader in sustainable energy and the fight against climate change.
− biofuels are one of the main tools to reduce the eu's energy dependence.
however, it is essential that their production is safe, does not pose a risk to the environment and is also based on a balanced approach.
it is also essential to reconcile environmental objectives with legitimate business expectations.
only by working together can we reduce the harmful side effects on the environment and people.
the implementation of these measures will reduce the adverse environmental and human side effects of production.
on the other hand, the establishment of a competitive, stable and secure energy system requires ensuring adequate project financing and maintaining a clear investment perspective.
european eel stocks are facing a number of threats: overfishing, loss of key habitats, pollution, parasites, changes in ocean currents due to global climate change, and more.
sources are not within safe biological limits and the current fisheries are not sustainable.
in writing − if you have i voted in favour of this report because there are many threats to european eel stocks, such as overfishing, loss of key habitats, pollution, parasites, changes in ocean currents due to global climate change, etc.
these recovery areas could act as marine reserves in the marine environment.
the decline of european eels is likely to be caused by overfishing, pollution or even changes in ocean currents, as eels migrate from oceans to rivers and back.
in addition, the eu-cape verde special partnership has committed the european union to a policy that goes beyond the normal donor-recipient relationship and aims to strengthen the eu's relations with cape verde, to promote good governance, security and stability, sustainable development and the fight against poverty, culture and the development of an information and knowledge society.
i am confident that the eu-malaysia partnership and cooperation agreement will provide unique opportunities to develop new bilateral relations, including cooperation in areas such as trade, energy, science and technology, migration, human rights and fundamental freedoms, social standards and working conditions.
i stress the need to intensify the eu-malaysia policy dialogue in areas such as environmental protection, green technologies and climate change.
i support the proposals to conclude the negotiations on partnership and cooperation agreements with the seven countries of the association of southeast asian nations (asean), to extend the eu's commitments in the areas of trade, energy, science and technology, migration, the fight against terrorism, human rights and fundamental freedoms, good governance, social standards and working conditions, the fight against corruption, trafficking in human beings and non-proliferation of weapons.
the eu and malaysia also need to intensify their political dialogue on environmental protection, green technologies and climate change.
− i voted in favour of this report on the negotiation of a partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and malaysia, which will provide a unique opportunity to create a new level of strategic and political foundation for bilateral relations, to extend the eu's commitments in a number of areas of common interest, such as cooperation in the fields of trade, energy, science and technology, migration, the fight against terrorism, human rights and fundamental freedoms, good governance, social standards and working conditions, the fight against corruption, trafficking in human beings and non-proliferation of weapons.
the agreement will help to intensify the eu-malaysia political dialogue on environment, green technologies and climate change.
in order to ensure human rights in malaysia, the european parliament calls on malaysia to further involve the productive and active malaysian civil society in the decision-making process and to lift the restrictions on civil society; welcomes the efforts of civil society to focus on environmental issues, women's rights, consumer protection, the rights of indigenous and other ethnic groups, media freedom, social justice, human rights and the rights of religious minorities.
the eu-malaysia partnership and cooperation agreement will provide unique opportunities to build a new level of strategic and political foundation for bilateral relations, to expand the eu's commitments in a wide range of areas of common interest, including cooperation on trade, energy, science and technology, migration, counter-terrorism, human rights and fundamental freedoms, good governance, social standards and working conditions, the fight against corruption, trafficking in human beings and non-proliferation of weapons, and to intensify the eu-malaysia political dialogue on environmental protection, green technologies and climate change.
particular attention shall be paid to the implementation of the principle of sustainable development and environmental protection requirements in addressing the issue of intensive deforestation in malaysia.
it is worth noting that a large proportion of the world's population is directly dependent on biodiversity as a source of income.
this will ensure full environmental and development policy coherence and sustainable access to genetic resources for european consumers.
the new legal framework must not only ensure adequate protection of biodiversity but also serve as a basis for developing partnerships between developing and developed countries.
to prevent the loss of biodiversity in the world, we must contribute to the conservation and sustainable use of its components.
− i voted in favour of this resolution because micro-generation is a major boost for the internal energy market.
it is important to note that microgeneration helps to control one's energy consumption, reduce one's energy purchases and thus protect against energy poverty.
it is therefore essential to implement coordinated actions and ensure uniform legal regulation in the field of small-scale energy generation.
member states should encourage the construction of positive energy buildings.
an effective eu cybersecurity policy must ensure a secure, open and trusted digital environment.
we also need to create a business-friendly environment and accelerate public sector innovation and encourage private investment.
it is essential to create a secure and reliable online environment for users and operators.
it is necessary to include unaccompanied minors in development cooperation policies, thereby contributing to the creation of a safe environment for children.
the creative and cultural sectors should be used as engines of economic and social development and should contribute to sustainable development with a beneficial social and economic impact.
lithuania has already established in its legislation the necessity of environmental impact assessment for the exploration and extraction of shale gas and i therefore welcome the intention to ensure fair and equal conditions of operation throughout the community and the strict implementation of the requirements of the european union safety and environmental legislation.
the environmental impact assessment and its optional nature should not be dependent on the planned gas production, but must be mandatory in all cases.
the extraction of shale gas is only possible if the environment and the people living in it are absolutely safe and the impact of the production on ecological processes is minimal.
and above all, we must ensure that environmental impact assessments are carried out by independent bodies, are objective, impartial and not bought-in.
in particular, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the really difficult work to systematise and update one of the main pieces of european union environmental legislation.
in general, environmental impact assessment is probably more about the assessment process itself.
the transparency and independence of the environmental impact assessment process is frequently the subject of comments or complaints.
the interested party, is responsible for both the selection and the remuneration of the professionals and experts involved in the environmental impact assessment.
although this approach was somewhat relaxed in the committee and in the negotiations between the political groups, i am pleased that the first step towards independence of the environmental impact assessment process has been taken.
shale gas is a natural resource that can ensure energy independence, including for my country, lithuania, but i still think that environmental impact assessment should be applied to shale gas extraction.
i agree that it must be ensured that the egf supports the reintegration of individual redundant workers with a view to providing them with stable employment, thus ensuring sustainable and long-term employment.
corruption undermines the distribution of resources, undermines sustainable economic growth and undermines efforts to reduce poverty.
the world, and with it the european union, is undergoing a period of rapid change and transformation, in particular in the areas of power, demography, climate, urbanisation and technology.
this is evident in the dynamics of power, demographic change, climate change, urbanization and technology.
the main goal is to create a working environment where the weaker party, typically employees, are not abused.
the eu must also provide sectoral support to enable mauritania to manage its fishing activities in a sustainable manner and to combat illegal fishing, in accordance with the principles of good governance and the rules of international law of the sea.
i believe that this fisheries protocol will not only encourage a more sustainable use of fisheries resources, but will also ensure better protection for the local community, since it will have to be transferred a part of the catch, and will create more jobs for mauritian fishermen.
the agreement also contains strict environmental rules, allowing only sustainable fishing.
i agree that concrete and more tangible action is needed in this area, in particular through the creation of an educational and public environment, the provision of specialised training and, in particular, the mainstreaming of gender genocide in the political dialogue agenda with relevant third countries and its inclusion as a key issue in the post-2015 development agenda.
in the report, parliament underlines the importance of cohesion policy as a key investment instrument, with a key role to play in tackling the crisis, reducing imbalances and putting the eu and its regions on a path to sustainable growth.
it is necessary to identify promising opportunities for national, regional and local authorities to invest in smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
i voted in favour, because the financial crisis should not detract from investing in future goals such as employment, innovation, sustainable development and the low-carbon economy.
community-led local development for local strategies to create smart and sustainable job growth is, i believe, a vital part of european goals.
the region is still characterised by illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, which is detrimental to the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks.
the eu's main objectives are to promote the social and economic development of the region through climate change adaptation and external trade policy, while promoting the sustainable use of fisheries resources through a transparent management system.
i agree that more efforts are needed at regional, national and eu level to strengthen access regulation, to establish sustainable fisheries cooperation agreements with neighbouring countries to improve cooperation and joint management of resources.
a stronger system of monitoring, control and surveillance of fishing activities is needed, in the context of a comprehensive approach aimed at enhancing the conservation of ecosystems in both basins and in compliance with eu and international law, in particular unclos, in order to contribute to the sustainable long-term use of fisheries resources and to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing more effectively.
madam president, we should all be pleased that our union is becoming a real, more consolidated union which is progressing thanks to a unified european energy policy and our common neighbourhood policy in the east.
the main aspect of the proposal is that new shale gas extraction projects would also be subject to a mandatory environmental impact assessment, i.e.
the directive also proposes to include biodiversity, the use of natural resources, climate change, and the risk of natural and man-made disasters as factors to be taken into account in the environmental impact assessment of a project.
it is also necessary to ensure that the environmental report is verified by environmental experts who are fully independent and have the appropriate technical competence.
− i voted in favour of allowing exploration and production of shale gas by hydraulic fracturing only after an environmental impact assessment has been carried out.
it is necessary to strengthen public participation in environmental impact assessment and to establish clear rules to avoid conflicts of interest.
we must conserve the soil, use natural resources, protect biodiversity.
currently, environmental impact assessment is only required for projects producing at least 500 000 cubic metres of natural gas per day.
this is particularly true when citizens' rights to a safe and clean environment are properly respected.
we must be firmly convinced that this will not lead to a particularly large and painful ecological disaster.
the obligation to carry out an environmental impact assessment should not depend on the amount of gas that is to be extracted.
it should be noted that shale gas extraction is only possible if the absolute safety of the environment and the people living in it is ensured and the impact of the production on ecological processes is minimised.
− the current process for assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment is outdated.
the original legislation needs to be modernised to include biodiversity and climate change and to bring the text into alignment with new directives adopted by the eu.
around 200 types of projects fall within its scope, making the eia a big factor in the environmental assessment process.
the purpose of the proposal is to update the existing european union safety rules and environmental requirements for vessels designed for personal use, i.e.
i agree with the main aspects of the amendment of the directive: increased safety requirements, reduced noise and pollution.
− i voted in favour of this report as it expresses parliament's position on the updating of eu safety rules and environmental requirements for vessels designed for personal use, i.e.
the main essential requirements for the ships concerned relate to stability and buoyancy, engine and electrical safety, emissions and noise emissions.
the main aspects of the proposal are the alignment of the rules with more harmonised standards, the maintenance of noise emission limits by providing for the possibility of national measures to impose stricter requirements in sensitive geographical areas in order to better protect the marine environment, the introduction of an obligation to install collection tanks or on-board water treatment systems on vessels with toilets, and the updating of the rules on emissions and noise emission.
the commission is invited to negotiate a broad-based and balanced eu-china investment agreement aimed at creating a better environment for eu investors in china and vice versa, including facilitated market access, with a view to increasing mutual capital flows and ensuring transparency in the management of both public and private companies investing in the partner economy.
the agreement must promote sustainable, inclusive and environmentally friendly investments (in particular in the extractive industries) and quality working conditions in the invested enterprises.
i therefore hope that the council will take due account of the ep's position on the environment, labour rights, intellectual property, transparency, investment dispute settlement and human rights implications when approving the negotiating mandate.
investments must not be made at the expense of the environment or working conditions.
it is also necessary to ensure that the investment agreement does not impede progress in the ratification and full implementation of international human rights treaties, international labour organisation conventions and multilateral environmental agreements between the two parties.
investments must not be made at the expense of the environment or working conditions.
it is also necessary to ensure that the investment agreement does not impede progress in the ratification and full implementation of international human rights treaties, international labour organisation conventions and multilateral environmental agreements between the two parties.
the agreement should include a strong commitment by the parties to sustainable and inclusive development in the economic, social and environmental aspects of investment.
investment agreements should take into account social aspects, environmental standards, human rights, safety, workers' and consumers' rights, public health and cultural diversity.
the agreement should include a strong commitment by the parties to sustainable and inclusive development in the economic, social and environmental aspects of investment.
- the proposal aims to amend the directive by stipulating that cadmium can only be used in portable batteries and accumulators for wireless power tools until 31 december 2015. in view of the environmental impact of cadmium, the commission proposal is welcomed.
the social and economic aspects of the ban on the use of nickel-cadmium batteries in cordless power tools and the environmental aspects of this ban were taken into account.
the extension of the exemption period by one year to 31 december 2016 would therefore be a reasonable compromise, protecting the interests of both consumers and business operators along the value chain, ensuring the protection of the environment and human health, while allowing additional time for the development of technologies, the exchange of best practices and innovation in this field.
as scientific progress leads to the discovery of products with lower environmental impact, it is also necessary to adopt legal measures allowing the use of batteries and cells with minimal impact on the environment and human beings.
ukraine still needs to improve its business climate, fight corruption and work together with the eu on fixing the bilateral trade irritants.
while i am supportive of the ukrainian willingness to sign and implement the dcfta, i worry that not all efforts are being made to actually turn the country towards a more business-friendly environment and towards resolving serious commercial issues, such as the recently-introduced car recycling fee, the delays in vat reimbursements, etc.
but the commission should make good use of the opportunity to upgrade the trade-and-investment-related provisions of the partnership and cooperation agreement and should explore the value of sectoral agreements, for example in the field of trade in energy products.
the commission will pursue macro-financial assistance in the form of structural reforms aimed at improving the overall macroeconomic governance and conditions for sustainable growth (transparency and efficiency in public financial management, fiscal reform and financial stability).
this assistance will help to meet the commission's external financing needs of the kyrgyz republic for the remainder of 2012. the macro-financial assistance and the related reform programme will help the kyrgyz republic to reduce short-term financing needs, while supporting policy measures aimed at achieving a stronger balance of payments and fiscal sustainability in the medium term and promoting sustainable growth.
in india, pakistan, bangladesh) using a shore-to-shore mechanism, which has environmental and health implications.
eu legislation has already introduced a ban on the export of hazardous waste from the eu to countries outside the organisation for economic cooperation and development (oecd) since 1998. however, according to the commission's impact assessment, this legal provision is very often circumvented due to the lack of ship recycling capacity, especially for the largest ships, in the oecd countries.
the european parliament has already made its position clear on this issue on two occasions, calling for the full implementation of the ban on the export of hazardous waste, including ship-related waste, a clear ban on the landfill method, a list of hazardous materials for all ships entering eu ports, and the establishment of a mandatory shipping industry contribution fund to ensure environmentally sound ship recycling.
- i voted in favour of this report because it is important not to tolerate the dismantling of ships under conditions harmful to people and the environment.
most shipowners try to make the most profit by selling their vessels to places where there are no labour and environmental standards and therefore they can offer the highest price.
this is a clear market failure, with negative effects on workers' health and the environment.
it is essential to ensure that recycling and waste management are environmentally sound.
− i voted in favour of this proposal because it would be unethical to continue to tolerate the dismantling of ships under conditions harmful to people and the environment.
under the eu waste shipping regulation, exports of hazardous waste from the eu to non-oecd countries have been prohibited since 1998. this prohibition is intended to implement the eu's so-called partial amendment to the requirements of the basel convention on the control of transboundary movements of hazardous wastes and their disposal.
according to the commission's impact assessment, in 2009, more than 90% of eu-flagged vessels were dismantled outside the oecd, mainly in south asia (india, pakistan and bangladesh), using the so-called 'shore-to-shore' method, which has significant environmental and health impacts.
most shipowners try to make the most profit by selling their vessels to places where there are no labour and environmental standards and therefore they can offer the highest price.
this is a clear market failure, due to the extra cost of outsourcing, with a detrimental impact on workers' health and the environment.
− the proper recycling and recovery of waste is one of the key objectives of eu environmental policy.
a more comprehensive discussion is therefore needed to ensure that such ships are also properly recycled and do not endanger people and the environment in third country ports or coasts.
i support calls for governments in the sahel region to address the root causes of the crisis through a sustainable economic development strategy that addresses political, economic and social challenges in the areas of food, education, healthcare, etc.
the sahel region is a party to most international treaties protecting human rights and the rights of women and children, but the multifaceted crises in the political, social, economic and environmental fields have worsened the human rights situation in the sahel region.
the objective of the proposal is to create a favourable environment for civil society organisations (csos) and local authorities (lgos) in the european union.
− i voted in favour of this report because the eu needs to commit itself more and more to building accountable, transparent, human rights-based and inclusive relations with partner countries, civil society organisations and local authorities to achieve more sustainable development outcomes.
− i supported the proposal as the eu needs to commit itself more and more to accountable, transparent, human rights-based and inclusive relations with partner countries, the who and the oau in order to achieve more sustainable development outcomes.
addressing the issue of supporting more democratic societies requires the eu to make a stronger political commitment to promoting an enabling environment for ngos and ngos, to strengthen their capacities and to mainstream these issues in policy and programming.
promoting a positive environment should be considered a priority issue of the eu's post-2015 development agenda and eu delegations' staff should be trained accordingly.
the eu should support a favourable environment, i.e.
− i support the report on local authorities and civil society and european involvement in support of sustainable development, as strengthening these institutions is essential to the principle of democratic accountability.
to achieve the goal of eradicating poverty, the eu should focus on creating a favourable environment at national level so human rights can be mainstreamed.
if we are to make this a reality, investing in quality education must be long-term and sustainable.
if we are to make this a reality, investing in quality education must be long-term and sustainable.
taking into account the experience of european projects already implemented, and in order to achieve more sustainable reform outcomes in the future, it is necessary to strengthen the shared responsibility through the contribution of countries to eu-funded projects, to allocate more funding in the areas of the judiciary and the fight against corruption in the common packet, to improve the administration and monitoring of funds and to ensure greater publicity and transparency.
in conclusion, mr commissioner, i would suggest that you consider whether another study should be carried out to assess the impact of emigration on the sustainability of social protection systems in countries where a large proportion of the working population leaves.
the european union's policy on the eastern neighbourhood and all other energy links and relations should therefore be calm and firm, because this is the basis of our security.
madam president, the document that we are discussing today will guide our environmental policy for the next six years.
whereas previous action programmes focused more on the protection of the environment, the current document – through its title, ‘living well, within the limits of our planet’ – reflects the principle of the integration of environmental issues into other policy areas.
this means that we must perceive our environment and its protection not as restricting the economy but as offering further opportunities: stricter rules on waste management; the protection of natural resources, including drinking water; energy saving and efficiency; renewable energy.
we should look at environmental policy from the right angle: not in terms of increased costs, but rather as presenting new opportunities for business, including the creation of new jobs and new eco-industries, based on sustainable practices.
this document does not set goals in a strict sense; rather it allows the european union to stay among the frontrunners in global environmental politics.
at the same time, i hope that representatives of my country, lithuania, will successfully complete the negotiations on the final text of this seventh environmental action programme.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. it should be emphasised that the priorities of the 2014 budget are sustainable growth, competitiveness, job creation and the fight against youth unemployment, as well as the eu's role in the world.
in its previous resolutions, the european parliament has expressed the view that the priorities for the 2014 budget are economic and sustainable growth, competitiveness, job creation and the fight against youth unemployment.
the blue economy is crucial to the achievement of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in maritime-related areas, in particular by combining knowledge and technological innovation, sustainable use of resources, competitiveness and job creation for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
− i voted in favour of this report because knowledge of the marine environment is of the utmost importance for the promotion, development and expansion of the blue economy, the maritime dimension of the europe 2020 strategy, linking technical innovation, sustainable use of resources, competitiveness and job creation.
it is important to ensure that the large stock of data available on the marine environment in europe is accessible and that these data are easily accessible in order to maximise resources and to stimulate development, innovation and job creation in the maritime and shipping sectors.
fisheries one of the main human activities in the marine environment, which provides food and which is of vital importance, especially for some coastal communities, and is therefore an essential element of an integrated maritime policy, but it is also the sector most affected by the many uses and activities of the marine environment, so that greater access to information on fishing activities can be an incentive to promote sustainable fishing practices, not only from an environmental but also from an economic and social point of view.
although the lithuanian watershed is not large, its cartographic exploration is poor the mapping carried out at a scale of 1:200 000 and only the part of the watershed between klaipėda and šventa was mapped at a scale of 1:50 000. the state geological maps of the water area drawn up here are intended to be used to solve problems of the coastal and inland industry, to meet the needs of the protection of the territorial economic zone, fisheries, shipping and other environmental protection and natural production.
in addition, the possible developments in the hydrocarbon works sector will require a thorough environmental impact assessment, which in turn can only be done with cartographic data.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on the european maritime and fisheries fund, which sets out an ambitious objective to end overfishing and to put the european fisheries sector on a sustainable and profitable business path.
i support the proposals to use the new fund to support innovative projects such as the replacement of fishing nets with more selective fishing gear, to reduce the number of fish being returned to the sea, and the development of new technologies to reduce the environmental impact of fishing and fisheries.
i support the s&d group's position that the eu's fisheries policy should be renewed to ensure sustainable fisheries and the recovery of fish stocks.
− i support the committee's proposal to ensure strict control of fishing activities in order to ensure environmentally and socially sustainable management.
i believe that structural support for the fisheries sector is needed to increase its competitiveness and sustainability.
investment in improving working conditions and safety, reducing energy consumption, reducing pollution and encouraging the use of less selective tools should also be supported.
the strategic role of ports for the competitiveness and sustainability of fishing activities and coastal areas should be taken into account.
the fund will support entrepreneurship, innovation, human capital, environmental protection, public health and the insurance of aquaculture resources.
− the eu's fisheries policy priority sustainable fisheries, based primarily on scientific data on resources.
i am therefore pleased that this position is reflected in the document we have adopted today and that we have succeeded in rejecting previous proposals to allocate a higher proportion of support to measures which do not guarantee the sustainability of resources.
in order to ensure economic and environmental sustainability, there is a need to increase support for the replacement of old vessels by newer ones without increasing fishing capacity and opportunities.
- i support this resolution on the warsaw climate change conference.
the aim of the conference is to ensure progress on the durban platform and to prepare for the conclusion of a global legally binding agreement by 2015. at the un climate change conference in durban, south africa, an agreement was reached that provided for international climate change strategies by nearly 200 countries.
90% of the world's emissions are still emitted by developing countries, which have not made any commitments to reduce emissions under the current kyoto protocol.
a new green climate fund was created in durban, which will act as one of the main channels for distributing the $100 billion that the developed world has committed to raise annually by 2020 to help developing countries implement their climate change mitigation plans.
i agree with the suggestions that the new agreement should include ambitious and sufficient greenhouse gas reduction targets for all polluters and the endorsement of appropriate policy measures to achieve these targets.
− i voted in favour of this resolution because climate change is an unavoidable and possibly irreversible threat to human communities, biodiversity and the planet, and therefore must be addressed by all countries at international level.
the widely recognised global risks and global costs associated with current emissions require not only commitments but also the political will of all actors to meet those commitments.
as governments have a collective responsibility to respond adequately to the climate change challenges facing humanity and the planet, it is essential that they receive the support of all relevant actors in their countries, including citizens and businesses.
climate change poses an extremely serious threat to a number of human rights, including the right to food, water and sanitation, and to the right to development in general, and the application of climate-related innovation in the energy and industrial sectors would be seen as an asset for the european union, as it would be the first to enter the growing international market for energy-related products and services.
sustainable innovation in the energy sector (at both production and consumer levels) is helping to create jobs, boost economic growth, increase energy independence and lead to a cleaner world, mitigate climate change and ensure energy security.
− i voted in favour of this document because it aims to ensure the necessary progress of the durban platform, to prepare for the preparation of commitments and the conclusion of a global legally binding agreement by 2015. an agreement was reached in durban that provided for international climate change strategies by almost 200 countries.
the largest share of all global emissions is emitted by developing countries, which have not made any commitments to reduce emissions under the current kyoto protocol.
a new green climate fund was created in durban, which will act as one of the main channels for distributing the $100 billion that the developed world has committed to raise annually by 2020 to help developing countries implement their climate change mitigation plans.
i believe that all polluters need to commit to ambitious and sufficient greenhouse gas reduction targets and adopt appropriate policy measures to achieve these targets.
the aim of the neighbourhood policy is to strengthen the partnership between the eu and neighbouring countries and societies in order to consolidate democracy, ensure sustainable economic growth and manage international relations.
− i voted in favour of this resolution because the implementation of the european neighbourhood policy should strengthen the partnership between the eu and neighbouring countries in order to build and consolidate a thriving democracy, ensure sustainable economic growth and manage international relations.
member states need not only fiscal consolidation but also structural reforms to deliver real, sustainable and socially sustainable growth and increased competitiveness, while taking concrete and urgent action to tackle unacceptably high levels of unemployment, especially among young people.
− i voted in favour, as the previous eu environment action programme expired at the end of july 2012. it is therefore indeed time to agree on a new common framework for 2020 and to propose an ambitious and realistic vision for 2050, in addition to the active actions to be launched at rio+20.
there are still many problems related to excessive depletion of natural resources, degradation of ecosystems, energy consumption, pollution, waste, health risks or climate change.
in times of economic crisis and austerity, it could be risky to focus on environmental policy, as it would be seen as a secondary priority or a constraint and a brake on economic growth and employment.
however, it seems more sensible to replace this short-term and divisive vision with an effective combination of environmental information and economic and industrial issues, bringing together all actors in innovative activities that promote progress.
we need an economy that uses less or better energy and raw materials, that produces and consumes smartly, that avoids waste, and that controls emissions and waste, while reducing the negative impact on the environment.
educating, informing and training citizens, enhancing their contribution to the environment in their daily lives, promoting civic engagement and access to justice in environmental matters - these are the objectives that the new eu programme must also pursue.
the objectives of the review are to provide consumers with comprehensive information on internet speed, to promote effective and sustainable competition as a driver of investment, to increase competition in the high-speed broadband market, to ensure a stable and sustainable investment framework, to ensure a harmonised, consistent application.
i believe that by supporting this report we are encouraging everyone to engage in a more active debate and to contribute to creating a favourable and competitive environment for investment.
it is good to see that lithuania will receive increased funding, which will allow the proper implementation of the planned projects, especially in the energy sector.
− i voted in favour of this report because ensuring that services of general interest are provided to the population, in particular basic services such as water supply, housing, waste management, health care, education and cultural services, remains one of the most important tasks of any government.
in many countries, public procurement is also used as a key tool to promote employment and economic activity in the region and to promote high standards of environmental protection and decent working conditions.
education and training are key components of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and of the guidelines for the member states' integrated economic growth and employment policies.
− i voted in favour of this report because the protection and promotion of creativity and culture are essential to consolidate the foundations of european integration in diversity and to secure its future, while maintaining pluralism, democracy and peaceful coexistence, and to strengthen the social model, innovation, social inclusion, sustainable development, intercultural dialogue and openness to third countries.
− i voted in favour of this proposal for a 'creative europe' programme because the protection and promotion of creativity and culture is essential to consolidate the foundations of european integration in diversity and to secure its future, while maintaining pluralism, democracy and peaceful coexistence, and to strengthen the social model, innovation, social inclusion, sustainable development, intercultural dialogue and openness to third countries.
through the 'europe for citizens' programme, civil society organisations will encourage citizens to discuss economic, employment or environmental issues that concern them.
through the 'europe for citizens' programme, civil society organisations will encourage citizens to discuss economic, employment or environmental issues that concern them.
the objective of this programme is to support projects for transport, energy and telecommunications interconnections in the period 2014-2020. it is important to note that among the many projects covered by this measure, there are also projects to reduce the energy gap in the baltic states.
given the difficult economic situation in many eu member states, it is necessary to pursue progress on both economic, social and environmental levels.
europe must remain competitive and return to sustainable and balanced growth.
− i voted in favour of a new programme for the european infrastructure networks fund, which will help to complete the major trans-european transport, energy and telecommunications interconnection projects.
the priority projects to be funded by the european union include projects to break the energy isolation of the baltic states: the baltic energy market connectivity plan and the baltic energy market connectivity plan.
of this, €23 billion will go to the transport sector (to improve crossborder connections) and €5 billion to the energy sector (to modernise, develop and increase security of supply of energy infrastructure).
i agree that projects that strengthen the energy system not just of one country but of the region and of the eu as a whole should be more likely to receive european union support.
− i voted in favour of this report because it is important to focus funds on projects that create additional european benefits in the areas of transport, energy and telecommunications, sectors which are of great importance for the future of the union and its citizens, in order to establish european integrated networks that ensure a well-functioning high-level infrastructure throughout the union.
it is also important to establish a european infrastructure networks facility (eitf) which would make a significant contribution to the objective of growth and competitiveness in the transport, energy and telecommunications sectors.
it is the eitp that can deliver the most effective eu funding for the union's key political priorities in the areas of transport, energy and telecommunications through transparent, synergistic, simplified, centralised and requirement-based management.
the european union needs to have robust, well-functioning and reliable transport, energy and telecommunications systems that contribute to the competitiveness of its economy in the world, to the sustainable and integrated functioning of the union, and to the improvement of its economic, social and environmental performance and its territorial integration.
− i supported the proposal because the new european infrastructure networks fund would help to complete the main trans-european transport, energy and telecommunications interconnection projects.
this regulation establishes the european infrastructure networks instrument, which lays down the conditions, methods and procedures for the provision of union financial assistance to trans-european networks in order to support projects of common interest in the transport, telecommunications and energy infrastructure sectors and to exploit potential synergies between those sectors.
it also lays down the allocation of resources to be allocated under the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the priority projects to receive eu funding include projects to break the energy isolation of the baltic states: the baltic energy market electricity connections plan and the baltic energy market gas connections plan.
− i support this document which proposes to create a new integrated instrument for investing in the eu's transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure priorities the european infrastructure networks instrument.
at the same time, the measure is important in that the baltic energy markets (in particular the electricity and gas interconnection plans) are considered to be a priority.
the consistent implementation of these measures will eliminate energy islands, while enhancing the quality of eu infrastructure and the energy independence of the eu as a whole.
of this, €23 billion will go to the transport sector (to improve crossborder connections) and €5 billion to the energy sector (to modernise, develop and increase security of supply of energy infrastructure).
i agree that projects that strengthen the energy system not just of one country but of the region and of the eu as a whole should be more likely to receive european union support.
it is also important to bear in mind that the climate impact of transport infrastructure is long-term and that climate impact assessments are necessary for new or upgraded infrastructure projects.
this is particularly important in the context of the enormous challenges for transport policy to reduce carbon emissions and to achieve the ambitious targets set out in the transport white paper.
the convention aims to establish a multilateral cooperation framework to prevent and control pollution of transboundary water bodies and to ensure rational use of water resources by states parties to the convention.
− i voted in favour of this report because it is essential to establish a framework of bilateral or multilateral cooperation to prevent and control pollution of transboundary water bodies and to ensure that the member states of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) use water resources rationally.
objective to establish a multilateral cooperation framework to prevent and control pollution of transboundary water bodies and to ensure rational use of water resources by the efta states.
the protection of transboundary waters from pollution is also important for the protection of waters at the eu's external border.
the eu's involvement in the international settlement of the river's pollution issues is also important, as both countries occasionally take unpredictable actions in their energy projects.
the objective of this project is to build and operate an experimental fusion reactor and thus create a sustainable energy source, since fusion generates a very high amount of energy but does not completely remove greenhouse gases.
investing in technologies that can lead to climate-friendly energy, research and development, including the development of fusion energy, is one of the eu's priorities.
by signing the agreement establishing the international synthesis energy organisation for iter, the eu has committed itself to hosting iter on its territory and to managing its construction and future operation, and i therefore support the continuation of funding for the iter project.
the iter research project is valuable in that it demonstrates fusion as a possible future source of safe, sustainable, environmentally responsible and economically viable european energy and should therefore continue to be funded.
the objective of this project is to build and operate an experimental fusion reactor and thus create a sustainable energy source, since fusion generates a very high amount of energy but no greenhouse gases.
investing in technologies that can lead to climate-friendly energy, research and development, including the development of fusion energy, is one of the eu's priorities.
this programme aims to unlock fusion and develop it as a potential future source of safe, sustainable, environmentally responsible and economically viable european energy.
the union funding for renewable energy has not been matched by the different programmes, and nuclear fission has not received a similar level of support, despite being recognised as a low-carbon energy source.
− the objective of the euratom programme is to enhance nuclear safety, security and radiation protection, to help decarbonise the eu energy system in the long term, to contribute to other research areas such as medical research, and to ensure the long-term future of european nuclear research.
whether or not a member state uses nuclear energy, it can benefit from nuclear research.
priorities for 2014-2020 would include the clean-up of mining sites, the proper disposal of spent fuel, waste management and decommissioning of installations.
new priorities for the 2014-2020 programme clean up mining sites, proper disposal of spent fuel, waste management and decommissioning of installations.
they need not only to shut down the reactor but also to remove spent fuel elements and radioactive materials, to deactivate and dismantle nuclear installations and to restore the environment of contaminated sites.
the financing is proposed subject to the condition that lithuania, bulgaria and slovakia transpose the eu council directives on nuclear safety and on spent fuel and radioactive waste management, and prepare plans for financing the decommissioning of nuclear reactors, clearly indicating the sources of financing.
this is a major achievement for lithuanian politicians and a step towards energy independence.
moreover, such travel is uneconomical, harmful to the environment and makes it difficult to organise the work of the european parliament itself.
for the efd group the main challenges for the european union as a whole next year are to revive growth in an effective and sustainable way and to tackle unemployment.
only through joint efforts will a sound and sustainable economic and financial situation be restored in the country.
these measures will help cyprus to achieve long-term growth, restore confidence in the financial markets, restore a sound macroeconomic balance and allow a return to sustainable economic growth.
it should be noted that the drought and forest fires in romania and the floods in germany, austria and the czech republic have had a significant negative impact on the living conditions, the natural environment and the economy of the population of these countries.
it is essential to ensure the financial sustainability of these pilot programmes in the future so that european industry and citizens can benefit from them.
satellite navigation systems are useful in telecommunications, transportation, and energy.
the decline in tourist and foreign direct investment flows, the increase in energy prices and the continuing disruption of natural gas supplies from egypt have slowed economic growth and, consequently, have significantly weakened the balance of payments and the fiscal position.
the european union's cohesion policy will receive €325 billion from the european regional development, social and cohesion funds over the period 2014-2020. the aim is to reduce the administrative burden on the funds and to encourage investment in innovation, research, energy efficiency and smes.
i believe that the reform of cohesion policy after 2013 is necessary to ensure a sustainable recovery of the eu economy and to promote competitiveness.
for example, funds not used for energy efficiency improvements in residential buildings are used, where appropriate, for energy efficiency improvements in public buildings.
it is necessary to make more efficient use of eu funds by focusing investment on smes, innovation and energy efficiency.
the purpose of the european social fund is to invest in workers, young people and jobseekers, so that in the future financial perspective the fund will focus on promoting sustainable and quality employment.
the european union's cohesion policy will receive €325 billion from the european regional development, social and cohesion funds over the period 2014-2020. the aim is to reduce the administrative burden on the funds and to encourage investment in innovation, research, energy efficiency and smes.
i believe that the reform of cohesion policy after 2013 is necessary to ensure a sustainable recovery of the eu economy and to promote competitiveness.
the european regional development fund supports regional and local development by co-financing investments in research and technological development and innovation, the fight against climate change and environmental protection, business support for small and medium-sized enterprises, services of general economic interest, telecommunications, energy and transport infrastructure, health, education and social infrastructure and sustainable urban development.
the european union's cohesion policy will receive €325 billion from the european regional development, social and cohesion funds over the period 2014-2020. the aim is to reduce the administrative burden on the funds and to encourage investment in innovation, research, energy efficiency and smes.
i believe that the reform of cohesion policy after 2013 is necessary to ensure a sustainable recovery of the eu economy and to promote competitiveness.
the european union's cohesion policy will receive €325 billion from the european regional development, social and cohesion funds over the period 2014-2020. the aim is to reduce the administrative burden on the funds and to encourage investment in innovation, research, energy efficiency and smes.
i believe that the reform of cohesion policy after 2013 is necessary to ensure a sustainable recovery of the eu economy and to promote competitiveness.
i therefore expect the national authorities responsible for the use of eu funds to implement only projects that contribute to improving the quality of life as well as other objectives: sustainable economic development, reducing youth unemployment.
i support the suggestions made to provide the consumer with indicative scenarios of future performance based on a multi-factor analysis, as well as to inform the consumer of the impact of the investment product in terms of environmental, social and governance criteria.
− i voted in favour, as rural development is an important part of the sustainable development of the regions of the european union.
it is important to make the best and most efficient use of the eu's limited financial resources for sustainable rural development and thus improve the well-being of the local population.
while supporting the overall concept of a sustainable agricultural policy, i would like to point out that more flexible arrangements could be made for the reallocation of funds between the individual agricultural policy elements (frameworks).
− i voted in favour of the reformed eu budget and provisions for the common agricultural policy (cap) for 2014-2020. during this period, the eu will focus more on environmental protection, make aid more equitable and help farmers to face market challenges.
the new cap will ensure a better balance between food safety and the environment, help farmers meet the challenges of the future and be fairer.
in addition, almost a third of direct payments to the eu member state will have to be linked to environmental measures: crop diversification, maintenance of existing perennial grasses and the creation of ecological zones on agricultural land.
− this regulation is one of the documents governing the new eu agricultural policy based on sustainable growth.
i agree with the view that measures to ensure sustainable agriculture (so-called 'greening measures') are necessary to ensure a high level of environmental protection, but that action must also be taken to avoid an additional administrative burden for farmers.
the new regulation sets out six priorities: promoting knowledge transfer and innovation; increasing the competitiveness of all types of agricultural activities and sustainable forest management; supporting the organisation of the food chain, including processing and marketing, and risk management; restoring, preserving and enhancing ecosystems; promoting resource efficiency and the transition to a low-carbon economy; and promoting social inclusion, poverty reduction and economic development in rural areas.
it therefore does not contribute to the sustainable management of tuna in the western and central pacific.
− we constantly talk about the need to reduce costs, optimise conditions, and strive for sustainable growth.
− the two seats of the european parliament that were considered a symbol of reconciliation in 1950 are now seen as a symbol of waste.
the eu, which is supposed to be a leader in sustainability, wastes about 19 000 tons of co2 commuting back and forth between brussels and strasbourg each month.
in order to revitalise europe's economy and emerge stronger from the crisis, the h2020 strategy focuses on research and innovation as a means to transition to a knowledge-based economy that delivers more balanced, diverse and sustainable growth.
the eu's growing innovation capacity will contribute to the development of a knowledge-based society and a sustainable, competitive economy.
the european institute of innovation and technology was established in 2008 to contribute to sustainable economic growth and competitiveness by strengthening the innovation capacity of the eu and its member states.
− i agreed, as environment and business development are important sources of growth and job creation across the eu.
− i voted for this report because it is the parliament's position on the establishment of the environment and climate action programme (life).
over the past 20 years, life has been a tremendous success as a tool for addressing environmental and climate-related issues facing european citizens.
in its report, the european parliament calls for an increase in the overall budget of the programme and for higher co-financing rates for eu environmental projects, which would increase the eu's contribution to the overall budget of the funded projects.
− financing sustainable environmental and climate projects an important element in the implementation of eu environmental policy.
however, i would also like to point out that the principle of environmental integration must also be taken into account when implementing projects financed from other sources: all eu-funded projects must comply with the principles of sustainable growth and have no negative impact on the environment.
these new rules are essential to ensure that the insurance sector is safe and sound, able to provide sustainable insurance products and supports the real economy through long-term investment and greater stability.
i believe that trade liberalisation is a very important tool for sustainable economic growth and development.
in this context, it is necessary to continuously improve the business environment and the basic conditions.
− i support the conclusion of this agreement, which is important from an economic, political and environmental point of view and is of particular importance for the eu's fishing fleet.
the eu-morocco fisheries partnership agreement will also ensure the sustainability of the stocks.
the convention is an important instrument for the protection of workers, the environment and society as a whole and must be ratified in the interests of workers' safety and health.
convention no 170 is an important instrument for the protection of workers, the environment and society as a whole.
the eu council will have to take sustainability into account when negotiating fishing quotas.
i am in favour of fishermen following the principle of maximum sustainable yield, i.e.
these criteria must include ecological, social and economic criteria.
this could be beneficial for those fleet segments that can demonstrate that they create more than average jobs and have a lower than average environmental impact.
it's a fragile environment and it won't give up if it's damaged.
the regulation aims to ensure sustainable deep-sea fisheries, reduce unwanted catches, limit the impact on vulnerable deep-sea habitats and collect more data on the biology of these species.
it is proposed to improve the licensing system and to phase out the less sustainable deep-sea fishing gear, namely bottom trawls and bottom set gillnets.
climate change may lead to more disasters in the future.
in recent years, natural and man-made disasters have increased dramatically and become more dangerous, and climate change is expected to lead to more disasters in the future.
i am in favour of the adoption of new rules to ensure a stable, integrated and sustainable housing loan market, the highest level of consumer protection, adequate information and a balanced relationship between lenders and borrowers.
ensure a high and equivalent level of consumer protection: this directive should create a more transparent, efficient and competitive internal market in the use of consistent, flexible and fair credit agreements for real estate, while promoting sustainable lending and borrowing and financial inclusion.
the eu emissions trading system is the most important tool to reduce industrial pollution in the eu in a cost-effective and efficient way.
in 2008, emissions fell by 10% after the start of the second trading period.
the initial objective was to create a market-based measure to stimulate the price of carbon dioxide, thereby encouraging investment in low-carbon technology and renewable energy.
however, the decrease in emissions in the second trading period could be strongly influenced by the economic downturn, which reduced economic activity and production.
as the surplus of allowances far exceeds demand, the price of carbon dioxide has fallen from eur 30 per tonne to eur 7 per tonne.
this decline in the price of carbon is in contradiction with the increase in sustainable scientific and technological innovation and therefore reduces the incentive to invest in low-carbon technologies and increases the risk of the european union becoming dependent on carbon-intensive infrastructure.
i agree that in order to strengthen and make the emissions trading system more efficient in stage 3, the commission needs to take concrete action by ensuring legal clarity and adapting the auction timetable accordingly.
the european union emissions trading system is the key instrument to reduce pollution from eu industry in a cost-effective and efficient way.
the current economic crisis, combined with the large volume of external carbon credits linked to the clean development mechanism and the many regulatory provisions related to the transition to the third trading period (2013-2020), has resulted in a clear surplus of allowances.
the european parliament therefore proposes to adopt short-term and long-term measures to address the inconsistency in the current eu emissions trading system.
therefore, this proposed short-term measure should not be seen as a solution to the current imbalances but as a possibility to ensure the stability of the eu emissions trading system pending the adoption of the necessary long-term structural measures.
− i voted in favour of the proposal because the eu emissions trading system is the most important tool to reduce industrial pollution in the eu in a cost-effective and efficient way.
the original policy idea was to create a market-based measure to stimulate the price of carbon dioxide, thereby positively influencing investments in low-carbon technology and renewable energy, which would reduce emissions.
the current economic crisis, combined with the large volume of external carbon credits linked to the clean development mechanism and the many regulatory provisions related to the transition to the third trading period (2013-2020), has resulted in a clear surplus of allowances.
as the surplus of allowances far exceeds demand, the price of carbon dioxide has fallen from eur 30 per tonne to eur 7 per tonne.
this decline in the price of carbon is in contrast to the significant increase in sustainable scientific and technological innovation and is therefore a disincentive to invest in low-carbon technology and a growing threat to the dependency of the european union on carbon-intensive infrastructure.
this proposed short-term measure should not be considered as a solution to the current non-compliance but as a possibility pending the adoption of the necessary long-term structural measures to ensure the stability of the eu emissions trading system.
− today we adopted a resolution of particular importance for the eu's policy on climate change.
the emissions allowance system was designed with the expectation that it would be an effective economic tool to encourage industry to reduce its pollution.
the commission's intervention in the emissions trading system must be exceptional and unique, and in the future the commission must develop new rules that provide economic incentives for companies to reduce their emissions.
− i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at a cars 2020 action plan to strengthen the competitiveness and sustainability of the industry by 2020. the automotive industry employs 12 million people in the eu, generates 4% of gdp and a trade surplus of eur 90 billion (2011).
i agree with the proposals to stress the importance of technological development and the search for alternative energy sources, to align legislation with the objectives set, to improve the links between the actors in the production chain in order to improve competition and to protect the most vulnerable companies.
in addition, the energy resources used are gradually but clearly changing as the digitisation of parts and functions takes place and the resulting production volumes increase.
the action plan cars 2020 aims to strengthen the competitiveness and sustainability of the industry by 2020. the action plan includes policy initiatives to: encourage investment in advanced technologies for clean vehicles; improve market conditions, for example by rationalising financial incentives for clean vehicles; increase industry's participation in the global market through balanced trade deals, enhanced international harmonisation of vehicle legislation and investment in new skills and training.
the european year of volunteering 2011 has four objectives: to create an enabling environment for volunteering; to empower volunteering organisers by providing them with better tools; to recognise volunteering and to raise awareness of the importance of volunteering.
the current regulation should contribute to creating a secure climate for the increase of trading and investment opportunities for europe’s goods and services worldwide, especially in areas where europe has a competitive advantage.
mr president, the european council will also discuss progress in the field of energy.
we know that the new eu budget, which we approved last session, includes a line for funding strategic energy interconnection projects, and the european commission has approved a list of energy projects of common interest.
given the current high cost of energy for the people of europe, it is essential to pay close attention to the proper implementation of these projects in order to complete the internal energy market of the european union and to eliminate existing energy islands.
the implementation of eu policies in different areas requires comparable and reliable statistical information on the economic, social and environmental situation in the eu and its various national and regional components.
it is necessary to ensure adequate living conditions, the right to be informed of working conditions by means of a written contract, uninterrupted weekly rest of at least 24 hours, protection of the minimum wage and the right of domestic workers to a safe and healthy working environment.
to set a minimum age for domestic workers which shall not be less than the age for workers in general laid down in national legislation; ensure: adequate living conditions; the right to be informed of working conditions by means of a written contract; at least 24 hours of uninterrupted weekly rest; protection of the minimum wage for domestic workers and the right of domestic workers to a safe and healthy working environment.
this agreement will allow armenia to progressively join or enhance its participation in certain union programmes, as well as to further promote links in the cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific fields, to strengthen people-to-people and sectoral cooperation and to strengthen policies and relations through the eastern partnership.
the new commission approach change agenda, which aims to focus eu assistance on fewer sectors that help to consolidate democracy, human rights, good governance and promote inclusive and sustainable growth, will be supported.
the new commission approach change agenda, which aims to focus eu assistance on fewer sectors that help to consolidate democracy, human rights, good governance and promote inclusive and sustainable growth, will be supported.
the new commission approach change agenda, which aims to focus eu assistance on fewer sectors that help to consolidate democracy, human rights, good governance and promote inclusive and sustainable growth, will be supported.
it is important to cooperate not only economically and politically but also in the fields of environment, culture, tourism, education and promoting contacts between young people.
the new commission approach change agenda, which aims to focus eu assistance on fewer sectors that help to consolidate democracy, human rights, good governance and promote inclusive and sustainable growth, will be supported.
the new commission approach change agenda, which aims to focus eu assistance on fewer sectors that help to consolidate democracy, human rights, good governance and promote inclusive and sustainable growth, will be supported.
this regulation will enhance their and mutual interests in europe 2020. the strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the external dimension.
in the face of the challenges of globalisation, in a multipolar world, the eu is seeking to develop a common approach to global issues such as climate change, energy security, the transition to a greener economy.
the new commission approach change agenda, which aims to focus eu assistance on fewer sectors that help to consolidate democracy, human rights, good governance and promote inclusive and sustainable growth, will be supported.
the new commission approach change agenda, which aims to focus eu assistance on fewer sectors that help to consolidate democracy, human rights, good governance and promote inclusive and sustainable growth, will be supported.
− one of the eu's objectives is to make an effective contribution to the reduction of poverty in the world, the elimination of the segregation of developing countries and their people, especially the most vulnerable groups such as women and girls, and the development of the most difficult economic sectors, such as agriculture, education and energy.
state aid to banks is often viewed negatively, as at the same time social services are being restricted in many european countries in order to restore fiscal sustainability, and banks receive billions in public funds.
− i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to create an accessible physical, mental and social environment for the 80 million disabled people in the european union, free from prejudices and stereotypes and free from barriers and obstacles to their full enjoyment of fundamental human rights and european citizenship.
it is necessary to create fairer trading relationships between the food and non-food supply chains and to create a better working environment.
marine energy can also help reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the european union's dependence on energy imports.
in the context of the economic crisis, high unemployment in many member states and high energy prices, the creation of sustainable jobs and the promotion of economic growth are important steps towards social cohesion.
environmental innovation is essential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to use resources more efficiently, to increase the use of recycled materials and to produce quality products with a lower environmental impact, and to develop greener production processes and services.
green innovation can be very diverse: new water filters for wastewater treatment, thinner and stronger steel to reduce waste materials, or a business model that provides repair services instead of selling products.
and call on the commission and the member states to develop new legislation in the areas of the development and use of renewable energy sources and energy efficiency and to strengthen existing legislation in these areas, ensuring legal certainty and a level playing field and encouraging public and private sector investment.
i am convinced that we will achieve better results in implementing environmental policy not by banning but by encouraging businesses to engage in this type of activity.
marine energy can help reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the eu's dependence on energy imports.
to ensure sustainable economic growth and avoid conflicts between different sectors, it is necessary to coordinate the current and future needs of the maritime domain.
we must work to secure the union's energy supply, to promote the development of maritime transport, to promote sustainable fisheries, and to preserve and protect the environment.
− i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to establish when sorted waste is not waste.
the draft of this regulation defines that paper is not waste when the sorted waste is used as paper fibre for the production of paper, i.e.
before it is processed in a paper mill, which is contrary to the current definition of recycling, according to which waste must be recycled.