this leaves the farmers' rights to use the seeds in their natural environment intact.
it will focus on changes which are expected to bring significant benefits by improving vehicle energy efficiency, connections between transport modes, as well as enforcement.
as you have just said, this directive is intended to take account of, among other things, the improvement of the aerodynamics and safety of vehicles, but also of environmental aspects, and to adapt vehicles to the current requirements of modern technology.
according to mr eickhout, the eib should be an environmental agency.
the european parliament has adopted compromise amendment no 20 in which we explicitly open up this mechanism to such bonds and also to renewable energy projects.
we know today that this project is not only a disaster for climate change and maybe our climate commissioner could give us a statement on what use there is in public european money going into a brown coal power plant which will pollute the climate for the next 50 years but it is above all an enormous risk for the eib.
the european investment bank is involved in major infrastructure projects in the energy sector both within and outside the union.
infrastructure is key to developing a functioning internal market and it is also key to integrating the technology of today, which is renewable energy.
firstly, the commissioner is right when he says that we need binding targets for 2030 for the climate, for renewable energy, and i would also say for energy efficiency.
because energy efficiency is the only realistic answer to energy poverty.
first of all, it's a huge mess for the environment.
that is why, even with gas, energy efficiency is the only answer.
your current model has two flaws in my opinion: firstly, it has not considered a scenario that is highly efficient and highly renewable, which is the most plausible scenario.
with the sun and wind we have enough energy to power the world, and i hope that you will support our call for a 100% renewable energy economy.
but being efficient will allow us to have a 100% renewable economy at lower cost.
all the studies show that energy efficiency is always cheaper than new investments, and that is why we need to complete the triangle: energy efficiency, renewables and intelligent grids, which form the link between the two.
we need a healthy mix of organic and conventional farmers, and i'm not saying that conventional farmers shouldn't make efforts to protect the environment.
but greening is pointless on land where organic farming is practiced or where there are sophisticated agro-environmental programmes, because that would be double greening, with the result that even the best pupils are punished in terms of environmental protection.
i also have to disagree with the green lobby on the ecological focus area.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire in a member state is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
the share of agriculture in gross national income is far from reflecting its importance in the economic, social, environmental and political reality of our societies.
reforming the cap means becoming a player in sustainable development.
preparing for the agriculture of tomorrow means defeating hunger through production methods that respect the imperatives of the environment.
it is farmers, ranchers and winegrowers who have shaped our natural environment.
i abstained on the tzavela report because i think the exercise of wanting to define a roadmap for energy by 2050 is very presumptuous.
no one knows what technologies will emerge during this period, nor what the energy vectors of the future will be.
shale gas, oil sands are changing the game in the global energy mix.
japan has just proved that methane hydrates can be converted into easily usable energy.
these methane hydrates are the most abundant energy source known today.
no to an anti-industrial policy i am against the backloading of the emissions trading system.
europe, whose emissions have fallen to less than 11% of global emissions, will not be able to bear the full burden of the fight against emissions.
the us congress then passed a law that forbade airlines from paying emissions taxes in europe.
sustainable value creation for companies, employees and customers is achieved only through high quality, efficiency and stable, decent wages and working conditions, not through increased competition.
while in the united states energy is getting cheaper, in europe it is getting more expensive.
we did not change in the original draft of the guidelines the treatment of large companies in the so-called ‘a’ areas (regions below 75% of average eu gdp per capita), and in our initial proposal we considered that large companies in ‘c’ areas (above 75%) should get compatible aid provided they comply with sectoral guidelines, research, development and innovation, energy and environment, broadband guidelines, risk capital guidelines and so on, and because these investments take place in an assisted region we might include an add-on with slightly higher aid intensity than if they invested in london, brussels or luxembourg.
renewable energy is a success story.
firstly, why does the commission now want to allow subsidies for nuclear power stations over 40 years, higher than 10 euro cents per kilowatt hour and at the same time take such a critical view of the subsidies for renewable energies?
secondly, you yourself say, commissioner, that energy efficiency, renewable energy and the development of networks are the 'no-return' options for europe's climate and energy.
what is happening in spain is protection of vested interests; it is going against competition in the spanish energy market, because renewables bring more competition to the market.
i am very surprised that the commission is not acting either on the competition issue or on the renewable issue.
it even intends to prolong the life of nuclear plants and it has, through the latest royal decree in february, killed what was a success story in terms of renewable deployment.
basically it is a political choice against modern energy and protecting the old interests; that is what is going on in spain.
mrs grossetête, the conclusion of the text of the council of heads of state, which will meet on wednesday, concerns energy.
the question of europe's energy dependence is not mentioned at all in this text.
do you not personally think that in this text setting out the energy priorities for the coming years, the debt and geopolitical dependence of europe should be highlighted and more emphasis should be placed on indigenous energy sources, particularly renewable energy sources?
in this respect, improving education and training systems, adapting them to the new needs of the labour market, enhancing lifelong learning and improving systems for the recognition of professional qualifications are some of the strategies that need to be implemented as soon as possible to make eu men and women increasingly competitive in a global and competitive labour market environment.
it is increasingly clear – and it is my personal conviction – that efforts to end poverty must go hand in hand with global and national action on sustainability.
global problems like climate change threaten to destroy any gains made in fighting poverty, with the poorest countries hardest hit again.
so a post-2015 framework must embody both poverty eradication and sustainable development.
it presents a vision for an eu position on the post-2015 framework that brings together the strands of poverty, sustainability, equity and security.
the development council endorsed this vision in its conclusions on 28 may 2013. environment ministers will do likewise next week before the conclusions are formally adopted in the general affairs council on 25 june.
we consider that the framework should have five key building blocks or elements: basic human development, drivers for inclusive and sustainable growth, sustainable natural resource management, good governance, and peace and security.
there are important gaps to fill, particularly when it comes to equality, quality of life, human rights and good governance, peace and security, and inclusive and sustainable growth.
we will also continue to emphasise policy coherence for development, to make sure that key policies such as trade, climate, health, education and agriculture contribute to achieving the development objectives of a post-2015 agenda.
however, it has also been very clearly stated, particularly by representatives of the poorest countries, that equality and equity are crucial and that sustainability should be addressed.
the committee on the environment has again tabled the same text with some cosmetic changes.
the energy industry accepts this and passes the extra costs on to consumers.
a tax on the carbon content of goods and services would enable the european economy to compete on equal terms with international competition.
it is wrong to say that waste products are not given special consideration in this directive.
i think we should reward them, and that's why it's right that you also incentivise railways to use renewable electricity instead of coal power.
and by the way, iluc is already being used by green activists like california and the u.s. environmental protection agency, and the brazilian government is also in the process of introducing iluc factors.
in the text of the renewable energy directive, it was already foreseen in december 2008 that we would come up today with a position on iluc.
and poland - your member state - is the country that has not implemented most of the energy directives.
that the models which are successful, such as the german eeg, are now virtually prevented, and thus also prevented from investing in decentralised energy by citizens?
the iluc/casi criterion on indirect use of agricultural land for scientifically sound assessment of environmental aspects of biofuel production in europe has serious methodological shortcomings, which have also been acknowledged by the european commission.
that is why i voted for the reasonable proposals of the committees on agriculture and industry and against the far-fetched report of the committee on the environment.
if we are to protect the environment and biodiversity, we cannot do so through absolute "preservation".
the environment and biodiversity are better off in economically developed countries than in poor countries, where people live in poverty and misery.
europe believes that the european parliament should 'lead by example' in reducing its greenhouse gas emissions.
however, these account for less than 11% of total emissions.
even if the european union reduced its emissions by 30% by 2020, this reduction would be absorbed by the additional emissions of others.
18 countries account for 75% of global emissions.
australia, which just disbanded its high commission on climate change, is about to do so.
i shall vote in favour of the energy part tomorrow, because we as a parliament have made progress on two points which we as greens consider essential.
gas consumption in europe will decline because we are investing in energy efficiency in homes and in renewable energy.
it would be a complete waste of money to invest in new gas networks now, because we will be using less gas in europe in 2030 than we do today anyway - and even the commission's projections say so.
that is why it is good that mrs vălean has stuck to her idea that most of the money from cef-energy has to be used as a guarantee through the european investment bank, because we can do so much more.
where is the irish/english project to bring offshore wind energy from the north sea to the industrial centres of europe?
mr president, of course we have to express solidarity with the people of sardinia, but we should also be aware that this cyclone was an extreme climate event, as was the typhoon in the philippines.
for the first time, we can see that global climate change is really happening, and i therefore hope that some members will reflect on the positions they have adopted on this issue.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
that will still produce greenhouse gas emissions.
energy is, of course, a very important part of our future.
with no solving of climate change and our dependency on oil, i think we will be in a bad way.
why have you, for some months now, stubbornly been attacking the intelligent energy europe programme?
changing energy – energy transition – is not only about technology, it is also about societal innovation.
we have thousands of stakeholders all over europe who know the intelligent energy europe programme, so please explain to me why you are so against keeping to running it under that name.
now, for reasons which i cannot follow, you want to drop at least the renewable part of it.
one last word – the real hero on energy in horizon 2020 is mrs carvalho, and i would like to thank her for all the support.
climate change is happening and what you are doing is cynical and irresponsible.
the segmentation of military equipment production remains a source of confusion and unacceptable waste, especially in this period of budgetary lean cows.