− tackling the challenges in the horn of africa, which impact european interests through the external effects of instability such as piracy, requires a sustainable and comprehensive engagement focused on the local population’s need for humanitarian relief and socio-economic development.
genetic resources (gr) are particularly essential for sustainable agriculture and food security.
the current loss of genetic diversity that occurs as part of the biodiversity erosion process (known as biopiracy) represents a key challenge for humanity.
such erosion of diversity sets new challenges for both holders and users of gr, the former being most often biodiversity-rich developing countries, the latter being usually developed countries.
after long negotiations, the ‘nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol on liability and redress to the cartagena protocol on biosafety’ was successfully adopted in nagoya, japan in october 2010. this legally binding instrument, largely inspired by the eu environmental liability directive (eld), would allow national authorities to act on behalf of the collective good and ask operators for remedial measures in the event of damage to biodiversity from living modified organisms.
− technical conservation measures are rules, which our fishermen throughout the european union must follow on a daily basis when undertaking a fishing expedition in order to ensure that however and wherever fishing activity is carried out it is done so in a sustainable manner.
the measures relate to minimum landing sizes, minimum net mesh sizes, zones and closed seasons, limiting by-catch, the criteria to use more selective fishing gears and measures designed to protect the marine environment and thus have a considerable impact in achieving the objectives of the common fisheries policy.
− i agree that the signing of the iepa is a necessary step towards sustainable growth in the region and highlights the importance of continued negotiations with a view to a full agreement to encourage increased trade, investment and regional integration in the region.
our group also insisted that, in simplifying the regulatory and administrative environment for smes, adequate protection for employees had to be provided in the fields of social security and occupational health and safety.
− a new strategy for jobs and growth, europe 2020, based on enhanced coordination of economic policies, which will focus on the key areas where action is needed to boost europe’s potential for sustainable growth and competitiveness.
it should ensure the recovery of fish stocks and bring an end to overfishing, ensuring that fishing and aquaculture activities are sustainable and managed consistent with achieving a healthy marine and freshwater environment, in order to provide long-term sustainable environmental, economic and social benefits and contribute to the availability of food supplies.
− traffic noise is one of the most widespread environmental problems in the eu, harming the health of more than one in three eu citizens.
− technical conservation measures are rules, which our fishermen throughout the european union must follow on a daily basis when undertaking a fishing expedition in order to ensure that how and where fishing activity is carried out, it is done so in a sustainable manner.
the measures relate to minimum landing sizes, minimum net mesh sizes, zones and closed seasons, limiting by-catch, the criteria to use more selective fishing gears and measures designed to protect the marine environment and have thus a considerable impact in achieving the objectives of the common fisheries policy.
i would add also river and lake environment.
− corporate social responsibility (csr) is indispensable if there is to be a restoration of trust in business and a sustainable economic recovery.
there are a number of members in this chamber who would be willing to do anything to disrupt european business, just so we can be green in our energy.
in developing our energy strategy for europe, it is important for us to balance three things.
on the one hand, of course, we have to reduce co2 emissions.
of course, on the one hand, renewable energy is very important today and will be even more important in the future.
of course, increasing energy efficiency, which i think is also a very important element.
− i supported the regulation establishing guidelines for european energy infrastructure and repealing decision no 1364/2006/ec, as i believe that it will give the baltic states a unique opportunity to end their isolation in the gas sector.
this legislation is a joint achievement of the baltic mps, as it is the last step in the legislative process that has made ending the baltic's energy isolation one of the european union's top priorities.
it is crucial that the baltic states agree on a joint project now, otherwise funding will quickly flow to other eu priorities in the development of energy infrastructure.
− if the new regulation is a positive and important initiative which aims at accelerating the accomplishment of the internal energy market, and at delivering on the eu’s energy policy and climate goals, then it can be efficient through the mobilisation of very significant investments, to the re-launch of economic growth and job creation in the eu.
− since the commission had received complaints that the environmental impact assessment had not been carried out, the commission started the infringement procedure.
− all economic sectors should contribute to greenhouse gas emissions reduction.
robust accounting rules for emissions and removals from land-use change and forestry activities are the first step towards achieving this goal.
− timely, transparent and comparable data on greenhouse gas emissions are necessary to know whether the eu and its member states are on track to meet their climate targets, and for developing robust new policies to combat climate change.
in assessing the sustainability of a member state's budget, recommendations will be made, if necessary, by both the european commission and the council.
− full compliance with eu environmental law is a treaty obligation and a criterion for the use of eu funding in the member states.
− in line with the europe 2020 strategy to promote resource efficiency with a view to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth for eu agricultural and rural areas, the objectives set for cap reform are clearly: 1) viable food production; 2) sustainable management of natural resources and climate actions; 3) balanced territorial development; 4) fair use of financial instruments.
− we need a clean, sustainable energy system fit for the future – to provide competiveness and energy independence, reducing imports and investing domestically.
regulation (ec) no 812/2004, which has serious shortcomings, mainly focuses on the use of acoustic devices to deter the incidental catching of cetaceans despite the fact that cetaceans face various threats such as habitat degradation, collisions with vessels and underwater noise pollution.
− the eu emissions trading system is one of the pillars of our climate policy.
backloading is only a short-term measure, which should not be seen as a solution to the current imbalances but rather as an option that ensures the stability of the eu emissions trading system until the necessary long-term structural measures are adopted.
− the eu wants to find a comprehensive way to address emissions from planes at global level.
if no agreement is reached by september 2013 at icao on a specific timetable for a global market-based instrument to reduce aviation emissions, the eu’s emissions trading scheme will be applied to all international flights again.
multinational undertakings often have a big impact on society and the environment in developing countries, and they are responsible for what kind of an impact they have on the local society: they can either help or hinder development.
the problem is that we have energy prices that are so high that we are losing our competitiveness in the world.
whereas in the united states, because they use carbon dioxide, their energy costs, the cost of electricity is three, four times cheaper than ours, we have more expensive electricity, and that means our households are paying disproportionately, our industry is paying disproportionately, and it's going to be increasingly difficult for us to compete in the global marketplace.
secondly, europe must start to speak with one voice with our third country energy suppliers.
and third, we have to use the energy resources that we have.
not only renewable resources, but also carbon dioxide exploration.
my friends, this is how we can combat high energy prices, improve our competitiveness and the well-being of our citizens.
when a natural disaster happens, when buildings are damaged, we always go back to building codes afterwards, how can we build buildings in the future so that they don't go to waste?
so we have to look at what we can do to strengthen, to transform this system so that it is more sustainable.
in a period of economic and social crisis, all resources deviated from legal activity must be recovered and directed to the real economy supporting legal, decent and sustainable work.
for example, a time-related user charge system should be applied to freight cars queuing at the eu external border crossing points with russia, taking into account the high environmental damage caused by vehicles standing in this queue but moving very slowly.
we have to put sustainability at the heart of our action both for fish caught in our waters and for fish caught in other waters.
it can play an essential role in protecting the security of the atlantic basin and developing more sustainable use of energy resources.
other common objectives could include environmental protection; fighting against human trafficking and joint efforts in dealing with the illegal immigration and the drugs trade.
− the european parliament reaffirms its continued support for the construction of an afghan state with stronger democratic institutions capable of securing national sovereignty, state unity, territorial integrity and prosperity for the people of afghanistan; it reaffirms that the peaceful future of afghanistan depends on the building of a stable, secure and economically sustainable state which is free of terrorism and narcotics and is based on the rule of law, strengthened democratic institutions, respect for the separation of powers and a strong parliament, and the guarantee of fundamental rights; it appreciates, in this connection, the important contributions made by eu development cooperation and by the eupol afghanistan mission, the extension of which is welcomed.
− on 12 september 2007 a protocol was adopted under the auspices of international atomic energy agency was adopted.
− the proposal on roadworthiness testing has the aim of further enhancing road safety and ensuring a high level of environmental protection.
− water pollution is one of the main environmental worries expressed by eu citizens.
the water framework directive is our key tool for improving the availability and quality of safe and clean water for our society by reducing chemical pollution.
the second is to ensure the integrated sustainability of blue growth, so that it will not damage the fragile marine environment.
− a bioeconomy has the potential to be used to generate economic growth and jobs and to pave the way for more resource-efficient, sustainable and innovative production and consumption patterns.
− the eu emission trading system is one of the pillars of our climate policy.
− the european parliament supported the proposal to 'freeze' the auctioning of co2 emission credits to encourage companies to invest in more environmentally friendly production technologies that would produce less carbon pollution and to promote the value of emission credits.
the european commission will only be able to take such a decision once for 900 million allowances for the period 2013-2020. a broader reform of the carbon trading system should also be urgently needed to ensure that the system operates in accordance with its objectives.
improvements in education and justice systems and lower energy prices are needed to increase the well-being of the population.
however, for growth and competitiveness to be truly sustainable, the reforms that have been initiated need to be seriously worked on in the long term.
− i supported the european parliament resolution on 'measures to ensure the functioning of the internal energy market' because it states that individual member states are 'energy islands' still completely isolated from the european gas and electricity networks.
the resolution also stresses that these member states continue to pay higher prices for energy resources due to their isolation.
− i am not sure that more europe in energy will result in security of supply, lower energy costs for consumers and industry, and a more sustainable economy.
the eu's single energy market is still far from being implemented, albeit from the point of view of maintaining the so-called 'energy island'.
the report rightly highlights that several eu countries remain completely isolated from european gas and electricity markets and continue to pay higher prices for energy resources, thus reducing their competitiveness.
− the s&d group supports all the necessary and efficient measures to be taken in order to make sure that the europe 2020 targets can be achieved and considers that energy efficiency measures via cohesion policy represent the greatest potential for this target.
the commission recently adopted a communication putting forward a maritime strategy for the adriatic and ionian seas, one of the four pillars of which covers action to promote sustainable fishing.
of course, many may not like to see the baltic states, and latvia in particular, cited as an example of a government and people who have selflessly done a tremendous job of restoring stable and sustainable economic growth.
− the report requests that the commission grant parliament the formal right to hear the candidate selected for the post of the european environment agencyʼs executive director prior to his or her appointment.
− i voted against this proposal to limit the production of traditional biofuels and to switch to new biofuel production from renewable resources.
i support the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but i believe that this proposal will place a new burden on european and latvian farmers, whose interests i have represented in the european parliament.
we must remember that the european union is a leader in reducing various forms of pollution, but we must also think about our people who need jobs and we must also think about creating new jobs.
i therefore call on the european commission and the members of the environment committee of the parliament to take a more balanced stance in the future negotiations and to take into account that the cap reform will require a number of new requirements for european farmers in the coming years.
by adopting the wording of this bill, the european parliament has demonstrated its commitment to the business environment in the european union.
it promotes good governance, security and stability, sustainable development and poverty alleviation.
in today's vote i supported the amendments tabled by my colleagues in the environment committee, which aim to strictly limit the spread of smoking, to ban menthol and other flavoured cigarettes and to cover as large a proportion of cigarette smokers as possible with informative reports on smoking-related diseases.
− the new protocol fully respects the common fisheries policy reform in terms of both environmental and financial sustainability, and human rights.
this own-initiative report seeks to cover all these aspects by encouraging, for instance, the establishment of maritime zones, in particular exclusive zones and protected maritime areas, which will not only improve fisheries conservation and management beyond territorial waters but will also promote sustainable fisheries resources, facilitate the control of and fight against illegal unreported and unregulated fishing, as well as improving marine management within these basins.
and even now, with russia's accession to the world trade organization, we are tolerating discriminatory conditions against the european union's member states in both energy and transport.
− a strengthened environmental impact assessment directive will benefit the environment, human health and the economy through more efficient, simplified procedures, and will provide a level playing field for projects and economic activities.
the new directive will improve the environmental performance of recreational craft and motorcycles by setting stricter limits on the emission levels of exhaust gases from marine engines.
the directive also sets out specific rules for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of waste batteries and accumulators.
− i agree with parliament’s view that the climate of impunity regarding the cia programmes has enabled the continuation of fundamental rights violations in the counter-terrorism policies of the eu and the us, as further revealed by the mass surveillance programmes of the us national security agency and surveillance bodies in various member states, which are currently being investigated by parliament.
− caste-based discrimination is recognised as one the most serious human-rights problems in the world today and as a main cause of poverty and inequality in the countries affected by it, severely impeding the pursuit of sustainable development and poverty eradication.
petitions about citizenship and the defence of human rights – rather than those relating to the environment – are the most numerous, reflecting the concerns of citizens.
this assistance is an exceptional financial instrument of untied and undesignated financial support, which aims at restoring a beneficiaryʼs sustainable external finance situation.
− the proposed ship recycling regulation aims at reducing negative impacts linked to the recycling of eu-flagged ships, especially in southern asia, where ship recycling practices continue to be dangerous to human health and the environment, due to the use of the ‘beaching܀ method.
the euʼs waste shipment regulation, implementing the basel convention and in particular the ‘ban amendmentʼ to the convention, which prohibits the export of hazardous waste outside the oecd, classifies eu-flagged ships going for dismantling as hazardous waste, to be dismantled only in oecd countries.
− this own-initiative report responds to two commission communications: ‘the roots of democracy and sustainable development: europe’s engagement with civil society in external relations’ and ‘empowering local authorities in partner countries for enhanced governance and more effective development outcomesʼ.
it supports the empowerment of civil society and local authorities, ensuring an enabling environment to involve them in policy formulation, programming and implementation, and in monitoring mechanisms to achieve this.
it is based on four pillars: green fisheries, green aquaculture, sustainable and inclusive territorial development and integrated maritime policy.
− a programme for the environment and climate action – life – has been the only instrument exclusively dedicated to financing environment and climate-related projects over the last 20 years.
in a period of economic and social crisis, all resources deviated from legal activity must be recovered and directed to the real economy supporting legal, decent and sustainable work.
− the programme provides an overarching framework for environment policy up to 2020, identifying nine priority objectives for the eu and its member states in order: 1. to protect, conserve and enhance the eu’s natural capital; 2. to turn the eu into a resource-efficient, greener and more competitive low-carbon economy; 3. to safeguard eu citizens from environment-related pressures and risks to health and wellbeing; 4. to maximise the benefits of eu environment legislation; 5. to improve the evidence base for environment policy; 6. to secure investment for environment and climate policy and get the prices right; 7. to improve environmental integration and policy coherence; all the points are very timely and i voted in favour.
− exposure to ionising radiation is detrimental to health; therefore we should ensure that a comprehensive range of measures is adequately in place and properly implemented, in order to ensure the highest level of protection for workers, patients and the public, as well as the environment.
and i think this synergy approach between transport, energy, and also communication has also worked.
the same applies to energy, as the connecting europe facility makes it possible to identify energy 'shortages', for example in gas supply, and to co-finance up to 50% of the project cost, or even 75% if it is really possible to break out of the gas monopoly.
the creation of a new financing mechanism connecting europe facility (cef) to finance transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure projects of eu interest is also essential.
it links the cohesion fund to allow the cohesion countries to finance transport projects, including the rail baltica railway project, with eu co-financing of up to 85% of the total costs, and energy projects with up to 75% of the total costs.
− i voted in favour because i think that smart investment in europe’s infrastructure ensures a more cohesive eu and promotes sustainable jobs and growth.
the creation of the connecting europe facility (cef) is a historic event it is the first time in the eu's history that such a large amount of funding will be provided for transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure projects of eu-wide importance.
the cef is a very important instrument in the creation of the eu single market and in the provision of modern transport, energy and telecommunications links between the eu member states.
it is essential that the cef money can also be used for projects to diversify energy supplies and in particular for the elimination of the so-called 'energy islands'.
− a better and more wide-scale global management and control of pollution in waterways is to be welcomed and encouraged through the protection.
− the general objective of the programme is to improve nuclear safety, security and radiation protection and to contribute to the long-term decarbonisation of the energy system in a safe, efficient and secure way.
− this consultation file concerns the nuclear safety cooperation part of the eu’s external aid for 2014-2020. it allocates some eur 631 million to support the promotion of nuclear safety and safeguards in third countries, in particular neighbourhood countries and seeks to ensure the eu has the capability and means to respond to assist in challenges arising in the field of nuclear safety and specifically remediation of mining sites, disposal of spent fuel, waste management and decommissioning of installations.
− this is a further step to realising an independent, precise and reliable european satellite navigation system, offering practical solutions to european industry, for disaster response, road safety, environmental protection and public services.
our group strongly supported all the new elements that made the european regional development fund even more effective in creating jobs, supporting innovation, reaching environmental goals as well as funding for sustainable tourism and culture.
gender diversity on boards leads to more sustainable decisions and therefore a more resistant european economy.
i too believe that moving from brussels to strasbourg is unproductive and a waste of time and money.
but for companies to invest in the economy, it is very important that the business environment is favourable to investment.
one of the obstacles to the business environment right now is the fact that there is money laundering and also full tax evasion.
these achievements are: ‘widening excellence’ and ‘science with and for society’; clean and affordable energy for europe; more and better participation of smes; gender equality; scientific panels; balance between small-medium and big projects.
− the european institute of innovation and technology has been set up by regulation (ec) no 294/2008 with the objective to contribute to sustainable economic growth and competitiveness by reinforcing the innovation capacity of the eu and its member states.
for more than 20 years it has brought investments for environment and climate action, including funds for natura 2000, the eu-wide network of nature reserves.
− ilo convention no 170 is an important instrument for the protection of workers, the environment and society as a whole.
− the application relates to 959 redundancies that have occurred in the solar energy sector between 15 november 2012 and 15 march 2013. of these, 875 redundant workers will benefit from personalised measures supported by egaf funding for a total of eur 2 305 million.
the report recalls the economic potential of cloud computing for both growth and job creation and its positive expected effects on various sectors of the economy, such as healthcare, energy, public services and education.
− the emissions trading system has created the worldʼs first major carbon market and an eu-wide carbon price as a key tool for reducing the industrial emissions of the eu in a cost-efficient way.
− according to article 6(1) of the waste framework directive (wfd), certain specified waste ceases to be waste when it has undergone a recovery operation and complies with specific criteria to be developed in line with the legal conditions laid down in this provision.
so both the exchange of information and the actual beneficiary are necessary for the member states' coffers to be full and for the business environment, the investment environment, to be the same for everyone.
− the aim of this oral question is to put pressure on the commission to continue informing parliament and monitoring the implementation of this new regulation on certain measures for the purpose of the conservation of fish stocks in relation to countries allowing non-sustainable fishing.
it confers international prestige, motivates citizens to implement strategies for sustainable development, boosts tourism over the long term, spurs competitiveness within the cultural and creative sectors, involves all layers of society in cultural activities, etc.