energy produced from cow manure in isolated areas of south asia.
physically raising small hamlets in low lying regions affected by climate change.
– renewable energy is one of the topics which is dominating the environmental agenda.
to give one example: one large wind turbine will produce an amount of energy equivalent to solar panels covering an area equal to the capital city of malta, valletta.
the other issue is that the manufacturing of the equipment for renewable energy was seen as a way of creating jobs.
evidently we rushed into this vital subject, creating renewable energy and creating jobs, without preparation.
i believe that to do this we need more than ever to ensure that we do not break our country's economies with excessive austerity but focus on measures of sustainable economic growth.
i voted in favour of the report on renewable energy in the european energy market because it is an important report addressing issues of how national support schemes can support this energy.
they thus underpin the need for new solutions such as smart grids, energy storage and balancing tools that help to bring a steady inflow of renewable energy into the grid, especially when considering the variable nature of renewable energy sources such as wind and solar.
the government is committed to making the energy sector one of the main pillars of economic development in the country.
renewable energy makes much more sense from every aspect, no less than from financial, environmental and health perspectives.
without the target of creating the mandatory renewable energy system by 2030, europe would be looking for the chance to turn its energy system into one that protects the environment, enhances security of energy supply and creates more quality employment opportunities in this area.
i voted against the report on adequate, secure and sustainable pensions.
i believe we must ensure that all our energy is used to tackle, among other things, the problem of poverty.
in the context of tomorrow's events, i would like to invite the high representative to establish a representation in turkmenistan, a country of strategic importance not only in energy matters but also geographically located in one of the world's 'hot spots'.
we have seen this institution strengthen, go from good to better despite the difficulties and the current economic environment.
substandard ships are no longer needed to ensure and protect workers' rights, increase ship safety and safeguard the environment.
this lack of commitment leads to certain ships sailing in poor conditions and threatening both human lives and the marine environment.
the blue growth report gives a good indication of the potential of the maritime economy in europe to create sustainable and inclusive growth that brings with it job creation.
i believe that for every policy or legislative initiative we take in the european union we should always bear in mind how it will help create jobs and increase opportunities for sustainable employment.
it is necessary to ensure that these cruise liners are 'energy efficient' and that the development of this industry takes place in a framework that respects the cultural and historical tourism plan of the port areas hosting these cruise liners.
i agree with the spirit of this report especially where it talks about the need for more resources and structures as well as the need for better coordination on measures to combat threats to citizens' health originating from chemical or environmental sources, and therefore i voted in favour.
a balance is therefore needed between adequate social services and a disciplined economic policy that is sustainable.
i agree with its assertion that a european transport-technology strategy for europe’s future sustainable mobility should first and foremost promote quality of service, the convenience of passengers and businesses, and sustainable mobility, and should be based on the union’s targets and legislation regarding the reduction of energy consumption, traffic noise, air pollutants, raw materials and greenhouse gas emissions up to 2020, 2030 and 2050, as well as improving health and quality of life, increasing the quality of services, providing increasingly customised solutions geared ever more closely to users’ needs, and enhancing safety and security; i reiterate the reports’ call on the commission and council, in view of the importance of research and innovation (r&i) to the whole european economy, to recognise the importance of the horizon 2020 initiative and to finance it adequately;
in writing.
- i voted in favour of this report because it allows, through the proposal for a regulation introducing a specific definition of inside information for emission allowances, not to hinder the climate policy objectives of the public authority responsible for reporting obligations.
it is disappointing that, at a time when the eu is facing challenges to reach its target of reducing the overall energy consumption by 20% by 2020, the funds set aside for energy efficiency from the european structural and investment funds cannot be fully exploited in the current funding period.
- mr president, i am very pleased, for many reasons, to take part in this debate on the basis of the work and report just presented, with her usual energy, by mrs corazza bildt.
we also need to focus our energy on sectors that are sometimes on the margins, little or not covered by this directive, and which are also changing: retail trade - which mrs corazza bildt is actively involved in - and online commerce.
the action plan for retail trade, which we presented on 31 january, is focused on improving the competitiveness of this sector at european level, on its economic, social and environmental performance.
like the diversity in nature, the diversity in european languages and cultures is an important part of the living heritage that underpins the sustainable development of our societies and must therefore be safeguarded in order to remain strong among us.
let me recall the main priorities for european union action in the pacific: first, sustainable fisheries in line with sound scientific advice; second, the fight against iuu fishing; and third, building the capacity of small island states to increase their good fisheries governance.
in line with our communication on the external dimension of the common fisheries policy, the commission is committed to continue promoting sustainable, responsible and transparent fisheries in the waters of its partners.
we will also promote the development and implementation of sea-based regional strategies for sustainable fisheries in the pacific.
fisheries play a key role for many small island states and the commission is supportive of their rightful ambitions, while ensuring their overriding goal of sustainable fisheries and improved governance.
the commission is committed to ensuring coherent intervention in the region, in order to better integrate fisheries development, environment, trade and other policies, to further advance the objectives of sustainable and responsible fisheries governance.
− mr president, unfortunately commissioner potočnik cannot be here today as he is on an official visit to japan and so he asked me to attend today’s debate on the revision of a key piece of european legislation, the environmental impact assessment directive.
for more than 25 years this directive has played an important role in helping public authorities and developers assess the environmental benefits and costs of certain projects.
as a result, investments have been made in a much more sustainable way.
by establishing common principles for the environmental assessment of projects, the directive has helped create a level playing field for developments right across the union.
however, the time has come to modernise the current directive in the light of new scientific developments, align it with the principles of smart regulation, and make it a more effective and efficient instrument for smart and sustainable growth.
to make the directive more effective, we need to modernise it to assess issues such as climate change and biodiversity, improve the quality of eia reports, monitor adverse impact on the environment and make decision-making more transparent.
to make the directive more efficient and predictable for developers, we need to streamline the process from the beginning, coordinate the various environmental assessments and introduce clear time frames for the key phases of the process.
in addition, scoping is now mandatory for energy projects, as recently agreed between this house and the council for the ten-e regulation.
we would agree with the purpose, as we just heard it, that if europe wants – and when some of our member states want – to do shale gas, we must be sure that we do it in a way that can be defended from an environmental point of view and we should avoid repeating some of the mistakes others have made in this field.
i appeal to you today to support that objective and work towards a modern, streamlined and more effective environmental impact assessment directive.
− as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism, i supported the changes to this directive proposed by the european commission because i believe that the environment knows no borders, as many projects at european level have shown.
yes, europe needs direct regulation on environmental impact assessments, which is strengthened in the interest of economic efficiency and for the benefit of the environment and human health.
the positive aspect is that this agreement also takes into account other things, such as greater access to justice, as well as a greater emphasis on social and environmental aspects.
a waste of time that led to the deaths of hundreds, if not thousands of people.
− i agree with the ban on placing on the market of portable batteries and accumulators containing cadmium and the call for waste batteries to be readily removable from end-of-life equipment.
the european union is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
i agree that for the benefit of the environment and for the reduction of hazardous waste, the recycling of eu-flagged ships should be encouraged through further development of framework policies.
it is always important to discuss sustainable development, the main objective of which must always be to improve the standard of living for all, but in particular for the most deprived.
we must improve it skills and create an environment which encourages investment in the technology of the future.
− there is a strong link between climate change and development because the most vulnerable groups of people are the most affected by this change.
therefore, climate change and poverty should be placed high on the agenda.
it would be good to start addressing the challenge that climate change brings to climate refugees.
unfortunately, climate change continues to weigh on those already suffering from poor living conditions.
− i welcome this report which calls for the limitation of landfilling of non-recyclable and non-recoverable waste by 2020 and introduces a binding framework beyond 2020 to enable member states and industry to make necessary investments in emissions reduction, energy efficiency and renewable energy.
this experience strengthens the professional potential of students, as well as contributing to the sustainable development of our citizens in the context of a common future for all europeans.
− the funds that are used for the connecting europe facility are aimed at investment in projects for europe’s infrastructure, in the fields of transport, energy and telecommunications.
it helps to ensure a more cohesive eu and also promotes sustainable jobs and growth.
− the connecting europe facility (cef) will be the new common financing instrument for three eu infrastructure networks: transport, energy and telecommunications.
− the trans-european transport network is there to connect europe through several networks in the areas of transport, telecommunications and energy.
− i am in favour of this report and welcome the establishment of a framework for multilateral cooperation to prevent and control the pollution of transboundary watercourses.
tourism also has a strong effect on the cohesion, dynamism and attractiveness of regions, territorial development and the environment.
the european regional development fund's support for measures to assist professionals and customers, with the aim of guaranteeing the availability and delivery of sustainable, responsible and high-quality tourism infrastructure projects, as well as practices that protect the environment, our natural heritage and biodiversity, helps to achieve the objectives of cohesion policy.
i therefore welcome the elements of the european regional development fund that make it more effective in creating jobs, encouraging innovation while meeting environmental objectives and securing funding for sustainable tourism and culture.
− with the new agreement on the cohesion fund for 2014-2020, meant to help countries and regions that are lagging behind regarding gni, many investments in the environment and the trans-european transport network will be supported.
energy efficiency will be promoted, helping the eu to reach its 2020 targets, and it will also help citizens through important elements such as cheaper energy bills, and the creation of more green jobs.
− i am in favour of this report because it broadens the scope of the cohesion fund in order to include support for energy efficiency and renewable energy use in the housing sector, as well as underlining the necessary support for high efficiency district heating and cogeneration of heat and power.
aside from practical and environmental reasons, it is not trustworthy for an eu institution to spend a significant share of its budget on logistical procedures, especially in times of budgetary constraints.
this programme will strengthen the competitiveness and sustainability of enterprises across the european union.
− i am in favour of this report because it includes a new type of project, the main purpose of which is to foster the implementation of environment and climate policies and the integration of their specific objectives into other policies.
− we need to provide economic operators with a sustainable future whilst reaching a level of activity that stabilises the economic and social environment on the canary islands.
it is understandable that the solution to emissions is not easy.
but we have to look at this area through an environmental lens as well.
this is because the latest statistics we have show that 12% of carbon dioxide emissions come from cars on the road.
therefore, while it is a step in the right direction to take steps to prevent this industry from going backwards it is also important to encourage the production of vehicles that do the least possible damage to the environment.
this means better benefits for the environment and more growth and jobs.