the eu wants businesses to reorganise to become more innovative, sustainable and competitive.
and it really shows in the report on energy policy, in the report on spatial planning and in the report on urban development that we are pursuing an investment policy together, setting up investment funds and that we are going to do things differently.
the cypriot government failed to take the necessary measures to ensure a sustainable budgetary policy and to implement structural reforms to strengthen competitiveness.
we saw last week in the netherlands in a news article about energy-efficient cars that these energy-efficient cars are not as efficient as they seem, because there is a lot of tweaking, say, of the windows, the conditions, the temperature, so that in the end what is presented to the consumer is something very different from what was actually intended.
that energy-efficient car is not as efficient as it claims to be.
i am not so much concerned with energy policy as with how you are going to make the rules work.
in this case i have just taken the example of energy, and whether it is the labelling of energy-efficient appliances, energy-efficient cars, quieter or energy-efficient car tyres, the consumer is simply being misled.
not the non-productive sectors, but simply the sectors that are going to make sure that we are going to generate sustainable growth again.
i read this report and it is quite clear that parliament is calling for a shift in taxation away from labour towards environmental costs.
yes, long-term investment is needed, but it is particularly important that the commission now tackles real issues such as tax evasion, more tax shifts away from labour to environmental costs, and away from unnecessary expenditure such as defence.
the people of iraq need a deep, sustainable democracy, based on human rights, equality and the rule of law.
it is clear that it does not contain any proposals for sustainability and respect for human rights.
we make laws about the environment.
the commission is also proposing that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
we must promote the entrepreneurial climate, deal creatively with training, etc.
how often do we see that when it really comes to improving air quality and the environment, banning controversial food additives, clearly labelling what is in food, short-term economic interests are chosen?
the fisheries policy must be environmentally, economically and socially sustainable.
they started reducing waste 25 years ago.
mr president, the fisheries sector is indeed about sustainability and at the same time about regionalisation, innovation and modernisation.
it is not just about sustainability at sea, but also in coastal zones for the people who work in the fisheries.
that's where we need to put all our energy, not in internal chatter.
when i went with a delegation from this parliament to the nagoya biodiversity summit in 2010, i was seven months pregnant.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of the environment.
over 50,000 heart attacks can be directly related to noise pollution.
we identify a theme, noise pollution, that a lot of people are suffering from.
to give hope to the youth of europe, to protect the social market economy, to create a sustainable economy which also promotes the values of europe for the next seven years.
let us not waste time on anything aiming for less.
– madam president, i would like to thank the irish presidency and the commissioner for explaining what we are going to do for europe and for the climate treaty by 2015. but i would like to stress that time is running out.
i feel that there is a lack of urgency here, on the part of the irish presidency as well, to work and to deliver on a time schedule that will enable us to have a 2030 climate package with three targets ready by 2015. i have another concrete question to the council.
it should not only be the ministers of the environment who get the blame in doha, in durban or in warsaw.
everyone is always saying in this room how important climate is.
show it in saving the emissions trading scheme, and in showing that backloading should be supported.
why can we not in parliament invite the polish minister to explain his position on climate change?
these are southern europe and of course central europe, where an incredible transition to a sustainable economy has yet to take place and where help is also needed.
but let me give a more specific example of the energy policy of the european investment bank.
the climate objectives are key to these objectives: 20% less co2 emissions, 20% renewable energy and 20% energy savings.
i don't know if you're up to speed on climate science, but it says very clearly, global emissions must be brought down, and any investment in a fossil fuel project is likely to emit co2 for decades.
but it is also about energy saving, especially in central europe.
there's a lot of work to be done to reduce energy waste.
can mr heuer explain the vision of the european investment bank for investing in renewable energy and energy saving, particularly in southern and central europe, in order to work towards the achievement of the 2020 targets, so that we do not continue to compliment each other on this in vagueness, but that we actually start working on it?
the eib is creating a problem, not only for the environment, but also for a project that is dubious.
the energy policy is currently under review.
i assume that the commission is also making it very clear that the eib should invest in sustainability and energy saving and no longer in fossil projects.
it is always strange that when mr goebbels talks about the environment, he feels that it is only the environment.
it would be nice if mr goebbels knew that environmental policy is economic policy.
but furthermore, if we increase our climate ambitions from 20% to 30%, six million jobs will be created in europe!
the 2020 targets include energy saving, renewable energy.
it is important to ensure that everyone uses the same uniform, transparent rules for the recording of greenhouse gas emissions.
what is also important, particularly in the longer term, is that member states should now also start to present the plans for the longer-term transition of their economies to an economy which emits 80 to 95% less greenhouse gases.
the council is quite clear on this point, and even the reporting obligation on: "how much money do we give to climate aid", even that reporting requirement was a big, big problem for member states like the uk and germany.
and everyone who goes to the international climate talks knows how important this is for developing countries.
what is the eu doing to help the climate?
but i would also like to conclude by saying that whenever we talk about climate, again, again in this house, people say: "slow down, we have to slow down, step by step".
and yet it amazes me again and again how we in the european parliament constantly look with fear at climate policy.
research shows over and over again that if we were to increase our climate ambitions beyond 2020 from 20 percent now to 30 percent, that would create six million additional jobs.
however, the pvv voted against the report by rapporteur morin-chartier; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment, but it is not yet ready to take action on the basis of the results of the european council in copenhagen.
the cross compliance process does not take into account all kinds of issues such as the water framework directive, such as the sustainable use of pesticides: they're not included in the greening.
i hear other colleagues talking about green and sustainable.
but farmers rely on their results when it comes to sustainability.
and give them the space to choose the sustainability path that actually fits their business.
so not a harness of impossible demands, but sustainability that fits into your business.
provide an incentive to invest in sustainability and animal welfare, for example, with sustainable stalls, with grazing, with precision farming.'
so this is a waste of time.
− i voted in favour of parliament’s resolution on the multiannual financial framework (mff) because i reject the european council’s conclusion of 7-8 february 2013 on the mff, as it does not reflect the priorities that are necessary to achieve job creation and sustainable economic development.
they see that coal-fired power plants are now the cheapest option for energy, and that is increasing in europe.
the carbon price will collapse to one euro if we vote against the backloading proposal.
then there will be no carbon price.
mr president, this is a very bizarre debate, because if there is one industry in which i believe that climate rules are almost by definition fair, it is the aviation industry.
my point about the emissions trading system is that we are not both moving away, but we are all ultimately driving in the same direction.
but i think that in the end we are better off with an ets that applies to the whole world, so to speak, than standing here and seeing our industry being hurt, that we are alone and have an emissions trading system that does not work.
president, commissioner damanaki, it was only a short time ago that we were here discussing the new fisheries policy, which must be sustainable and, on the other hand, take into account the income of fishermen.
let me focus primarily on a few individual agencies and especially on the environment agency.
she has built the environment agency into an example of how to run an agency.
i therefore strongly urge my colleagues to vote in favour of granting discharge to the environment agency tomorrow.
- i would like to focus in my closing remarks on the discharge of the european environment agency.
that is why i am so surprised that the ppe group wants to postpone the discharge of the european environment agency.
if we did, the discharge of the european environment agency would be a piece of cake.
in other words, the ppe group wants to condemn the european environment agency, the director, politically on the basis of rumours.
i find it incomprehensible that rumours, the fact that a report may be published in a few months' time which gives a negative assessment of the european environment agency, should be a reason for condemning a person and a european institution politically.
draft legislation like the legislation which is on the table in ukraine contributes to a climate where those things can happen.
i would like to emphasise that, if you want to grant discharge to the environment agency – and i urge you to do so – then you have to vote against at the next vote.
that there are institutions that say: we are not going to drill in that area, in an area that is twice as affected by climate change!
i would like to point out to the colleagues who voted against backloading emissions trading last month a number of consistency problems.
one of the reasons why it was said that 'we cannot intervene in the emissions trading system now' is because there is such a problem with emissions trading.
and it was mainly the energy-intensive industries that were opposed to emissions trading.
the energy producers are less affected.
that proves that we need an additional energy policy.
the additional energy policy means: setting a binding target for renewable energy.
those who see problems with emissions trading on the one hand, but do not want to set an additional target for renewable energy on the other, have a consistency problem.
so if you have a problem with emissions trading - and that was on this side of the house last month - vote now for real energy policy, that is, with a binding target for renewable energy.
a single energy market is also what we need to work towards, but with clear policies on what kind of energy market.
it 's very clear to me: the energy market must be renewable.
that's the only real energy option that will bring us self-sufficiency, cheap and sustainable energy.
i do not hear you very often talking about renewable energy, which is - as many colleagues have already pointed out - the success story, more than shale gas, because frankly it is not our success story.
the european success story is 'renewable'.
there are already many successes in germany, but in my own country, for example, in the netherlands, only 3.4% is renewable, whereas the ambition was to reach 16%.
we always over-invest in big renewable energy solutions, big offshore wind farms, when it is the citizen who can play a big role on a 'small scale'.
can you tell us how, if this continues, you will at least ensure that renewable energy remains accessible to the small market?
we all want a secure, sustainable and adequate pension.
the european commission now wants to improve the sustainability of the capital invested in pension funds.
when will we have a genuine single energy market in europe, with a genuine level playing field, as we want in the other sectors?
at present, the energy market is far too much nationally controlled, too diffuse and too little transparent.
because if there is one area of competence that the eu should have, it is energy.
how can we then ensure the sustainability and stability of the region?
the transatlantic trade and investment partnership should lead to a win-win situation, to fewer bureaucratic burdens, and to high standards of fundamental rights, environmental standards and consumer protection.
sadly, children are brainwashed from an early age to adopt the beliefs of their environment.
i can be brief about all the nonsense that is being said about climate, the environment and sustainability.
of course we have to facilitate trade – fair trade, sustainable trade.
i urge president barroso to take up the issues of human rights and media freedom at the highest level when he meets president aliyev on 21 june 2013. our economic, energy and strategic interests must not overshadow the great importance of human rights.
mr president, this is another of those climate fundamentalist reports on which we vote every so often in this parliament.
everything has to be carbon neutral, the usual song of the climate ayatollahs.
unfortunately, the climate atoll has succeeded today.
if you don't like the outcome of a carbon trading market, then you shouldn't make a market out of it.
apart from that, of course, i cannot repeat often enough that it is of course an illusion that with a working co2 regulatory system we can stop or reverse the supposed climate change and save the world.
what a shocking naivete of the climate fundamentalists.
reliability also means that you will continue to support the compromises we made in the committee on the environment before the summer, and that is reliability.
because it is a fact that some biofuels are harmful to the environment.
what energy was released!
because people were all saying, i'm going to build the most energy-efficient house, i'm going to build an energy-producing house.
europe, as we have just seen in the previous debate, faces many energy challenges: i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which is a very good report, and i hope that the commission will be able to support it.
the european parliament and the european commission - and i commend you for that - are also working hard on a post-2020 energy policy: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the renewal of the community's nuclear programme.
when we think of energy, we think of big.
big coal plants, so big sustainability plants.
i am not saying that we should stop, but that the real innovation, the real revolution in energy is in the small.
that's small-scale energy.
but we do see that once consumers are allowed to produce their own energy, they themselves go to extremes and that a great deal of innovative power is also unleashed.
it must be possible to produce this small-scale energy independently of the large energy companies.
we talk about energy efficiency all the time.
how can you be more efficient than if a consumer generates his own energy and thereby becomes aware of his own energy behaviour?
there is too little information about the potential, whereas studies show that by 2050 30% of the uk's energy could come from small-scale energy.
make an assessment of what the capacity of small-scale energy in europe really is and what part of our needs can be met by it.
how can we adapt european legislation so that this small-scale energy, this microgeneration, can be included in the 2030 climate and energy package, for example?
i'm looking forward to a lot of energy in the future.
i hear you say that you would like to see eu legislation implemented more quickly, so is it not a solution to make energy policy european from now on and no longer with directives, but for example with regulations?
there must be control plans and, of course, all of this must be very sustainable.
it is important that we help with the improvement of the economic situation since a stable economic environment is crucial for a stable political atmosphere.
the deadlock between those seeking access to genetic resources and those who wanted to share those resources better had suddenly gone, and we – the commission, the member states and the members of this house – applauded because it was a victory for biodiversity in the future, and ratification was the last tiny hurdle yet to be taken.
without new utilisation, are we creating a paper tiger or do you seriously believe this is a step towards improved access and better benefit-sharing and a huge step forward for biodiversity?
mr president, today we have seen once again how alien to the world the environmental fundamentalists in our parliament are.
the commission is also calling for the eu to be able to take action to combat climate change, and for the eu to be able to take action to combat climate change.
all progress and european entrepreneurship is being sacrificed by the green left to the environment.
my colleague is clearly a deeply ecological person.
as i mentioned, i support the negotiations but urge for strict criteria for transparency, respect for human rights, environmental laws and labour standards.
i therefore also think it is important to include strong social and environmental clauses in the investment agreement and to make them a condition for the signing of this agreement.
this will improve safety for users and the environment.
we are just two years away from the moment when a new climate deal should be agreed upon, and this time it should not fail, as it did in 2009 in copenhagen – sorry, mrs hedegaard, that was not meant personally.
if you look at the cumulative emissions, the ipcc clearly states that, if you want to meet the 2˚ celsius target, cumulative emissions can only reach one trillion tonnes of carbon.
we are already over half way there and, if we just follow the baseline, in three decades we will have reached one trillion tonnes of carbon.
are we serious enough about climate?
there is no ambition in the current eu climate target, so this needs to be raised as well.
– mr seeber, you say: ‘what’s the problem?’ i have to ask the question: do you not agree that the current total lack of investment in innovation in europe for low-carbon strategies is a problem?
today, commissioner potočnik made a speech announcing new commission proposals on shale gas and his colleague oettinger repeatedly indicated that he sees a place for shale gas in the energy mix.
it is clear that we are not very ambitious in our transition to truly renewable energy, and that is why i would also like to urge that this message be consistently presented at the forthcoming climate conference.
and then you put all your energy into a problem that's negligible, when there are much bigger problems to be dealt with.
it is clear that we are nowhere near achieving the 2020 goals by 2020. far deeper, concerted reform is needed if we are to move towards a sustainable economy with job-rich growth.
firstly, will the commission make environmental taxation and the elimination of environmentally-harmful subsidies a key priority in the annual growth survey?
we should reduce taxation on labour and shift it to environmental taxation.
the eurogroup has agreed not to have excessive deficits, in view of the sustainability of the euro.
- the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97).
first of all, let us become more self-sufficient in energy.
i would also like to be honest about the rather uninspiring and also misleading title of the seventh environmental action programme, and particularly the subtitle: ‘living well, within the limits of our planet’, which is far too defensive.
this is not about labour efficiency; it is about resource efficiency, energy efficiency and changing our economy from a linear to a circular one.
it is not only about resource efficiency, biodiversity, waste and a low-carbon economy, but also about improving the implementation of eu legislation.
the council no longer embraces the biodiversity strategy; and the council, together with many of the commissioners, regards sustainability as an obstacle to growth – although it is in fact a criterion for growth.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century, such as access to raw materials, sustainable energy and maintaining our competitiveness.
the european cohesion funds, as they have been called so far, are changing from compensatory funds for the transfer of money from rich member states to poor regions into a targeted investment instrument for knowledge, sustainability and jobs.
then people thought: perhaps we should start working with thematic funds for water, sun and energy.
yet another variant has emerged, with an integrated policy, indeed focused on knowledge, sustainability and jobs.
let us look at what we can do in the cohesion fund, among other things, with energy applications in housing in eastern europe.
that is a book for the epp, from the epp, but there is so much in it about greening and sustainability that i will make an attempt to beat the greens in the vote tomorrow.
first of all, young entrepreneurs are ambitious when it comes to sustainable production, but they want to be measured by results.
we need to address the fact that, in some countries, cutting a little less now might actually make their finances more sustainable for the future.
they seemed to be willing to shift the responsibility of nature and environment progress totally to the european level and onto the national allocations.
is the european commission willing to make an analysis of what we are going to spend in the next couple of years on nature conservation and see whether that is sufficient to meet our targets for the biodiversity strategy?
ms mcguinness, how can you reconcile your position now, when you talk about the importance of more sustainable agriculture in europe, with the position of your group in watering down the greening of the cap?
i would urge the commissioner to keep an eye on the human dimension, because only then will policy be environmentally, economically and socially sustainable.
i have always been very much against the emissions trading system for two reasons.
furthermore, it has not yet been clearly demonstrated that man-made co2 is responsible for global warming.
sustainability should also be integrated into development policy, including the fight against the effects of climate change.
that is why europe is investing in renewable energy, in measures that combat poverty and that are also effective in combating the effects of global warming.
there's going to be more for fair growth and jobs, more for food security, and there's going to be a little bit less focus on energy.
a europe that will direct aid to the poorest countries and give priority in the years ahead to human rights and sustainability in a just globalisation.
the commission then starts to talk about 'coordinated action' and 'sustainable development' and, by justifying its intervention with nonsense about erosion, climate change and natural disasters, it puts the whole thing to sleep.
it has an excellent effect on biodiversity.
finally, mr president, the business climate is being considerably strengthened.