we now have a very good opportunity to achieve synergy between regional policy and energy policy, we have an opportunity to pursue the objectives of both policies simultaneously, to optimise them.
this is the first time the european commission has allocated such a large amount of financial resources to the energy sector under the european regional development fund.
the report therefore stresses that energy projects financed by cohesion policy funds should primarily support the objectives of cohesion policy, namely to build regional development, increase employment and reduce disparities between regions in europe.
european energy projects can help to boost the dynamics of those regions which are underdeveloped, lagging behind and those which want to invest in decentralised energy sources.
the report stresses that the key objective of this common energy and regional policy should be to invest in decentralised energy sources on the one hand and in energy efficiency on the other.
and the development of energy infrastructure is very important, because we often think and talk about the development of energy sources, but we don't think about how to transmit this energy, how to build connections, how to get it to the consumer.
the report therefore also emphasises the development of energy infrastructure financed by cohesion funds.
some regions want to invest in building renovation, put more emphasis on energy efficiency, others again lack basic transmission networks so we need different types of projects, and what will unite them is that they are european objectives, that they will implement european policy.
in the future financial perspective, there will be much more money for energy projects, but cohesion policy cannot be seen as a piggy bank from which money will be taken for the objectives to be achieved.
i believe that now is a good time to discuss and take action to enable local cooperation mechanisms to be activated to create stability, jobs and better living conditions in their immediate environment, following the motto of the irish presidency which is 'providing stability and security leading to economic growth and increased employment in europe'.
first, we want to put particular emphasis on combating poverty, including energy poverty, as part of cohesion policy.
the application of concrete measures from cohesion policy resources should translate into equal access for european union citizens to energy in their homes and workplaces, of course at favourable prices.
secondly, we are committed to not giving up on ambitious climate policy goals.
in the european union, and especially in its least developed regions, we still need new solutions based primarily on renewable sources, which are the future of energy and the basis of european competitiveness.
at the same time, energy efficiency should be pursued, but the two objectives cannot be set against each other.
we support small, local power generation, but we don't want to limit funding for large power plants that produce energy from renewable sources.
we also do not want to close the door on energy sources such as gas or biogas, which can and do meet local needs in the poorest regions, including rural areas.
we therefore believe that cohesion policy in its energy dimension should be a package of solutions open to european diversity.
i am also concerned about the way in which european funds are allocated: if we accept the logic of the european commission, then in the future funding period in the less developed areas of the union, half of the resources of the european regional development fund will be allocated to supporting the so-called climate logic, that is, the very costly for citizens and businesses transition to a low-carbon economy.
from the perspective of countries that rely on fossil fuels, it is difficult to agree to direct subsidies only to renewable energy sources.
regions should focus on those energy sources that best suit their local conditions.
if the climate policy promoted is not stopped, it could have devastating effects on central europe: rising energy prices, industrial closures and the creation of energy poverty areas.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
the energy security of the member states depends on it.
firstly, an effective and coordinated policy towards the countries from which we import energy, with the aim of eliminating the price differences applied to individual customers.
second, to take all measures to initiate investments in indigenous energy sources through the development of relevant sectors of the economy.
we have abundant shale gas resources, the exploitation of which can translate into lower energy costs and safeguard the interests of the community as a whole.
the implementation of energy policy requires support for regional energy projects.
this also implies the need to finance those regions where the crisis has caused difficulties in the energy economy.
close cooperation in the energy field with partner countries, especially those directly neighbouring the regions of the union, is also of major importance.
i would remind you that poland already achieved the required 9.5% share of energy from renewable sources two years ago, and their development remains one of the main directions of the country's energy policy.
however, this is often not the case and agricultural regions have great difficulty in attracting new investment, so the money that will go to energy development under cohesion policy will be of great importance.
here, mr nilssen told us how the development of his region in the north of sweden was due to decentralised energy sources.
and they want to invest in different types of energy sources.
renewable energy sources, but not only, because let's not forget that gas - natural gas or shale gas - is needed, among other things, for the development of green energy sources.
the regions must have their own concept, because it is not just a matter of spending and investing in individual sources of energy.
well, the european citizens' initiative is about to start collecting signatures to re-ignite the debate on the climate package in the european union, and to this end, the initiators intend to collect over a million signatures from european union citizens in a number of countries of our community.
there is no doubt that the climate package, in view of the growing economic crisis in the european union, and in particular in the euro area, is an initiative with far-reaching social and economic consequences.
and unfortunately, that competition will leave the european union and all its countries even further behind if we do things that are irrational from the point of view of the essence of competition in global markets, if we do not take into account the competitiveness of our economy, and that competitiveness is being reduced by the additional costs that the climate package imposes on us.
this really helps us to focus this year on consolidation and on maintaining the sustainability of the decisions we took last year.
cities today form extensive archipelagos which, if they are to radiate properly to other areas, must be developed in a responsible, sustainable way.
there are many issues that need to be addressed: energy efficiency in buildings, disposal management, migration, population ageing, etc.
at the same time, the local dimension is important in this policy, as it is at this level that citizens feel more connected to the environment in which they live.
i therefore support the proposal to clarify the rules for allocating funds to create new, sustainable jobs.
like mr vaughan, i would like to stress the need to focus on the measurable effects of cohesion policy, to ensure the sustainability of investment and, therefore, the effectiveness of eu-funded interventions.
europe cannot afford to waste or overspend.
in particular, in the face of unpredictable and changing problems, such as climate change, such as the scale and specificity of natural disasters, the instruments should be regularly monitored and improved.
i therefore welcome the fact that the need for eu support for the region is not limited to a chaotic response to emerging challenges that impede sustainable development, but rather requires a strong, holistic and comprehensive approach.
it is also encouraging that we share the view that temporary, short-term humanitarian aid - although in many cases invaluable - is not the answer to long-term problems, such as the introduction of sustainable development based on peaceful, transparent, publicly trusted governance.
moreover, in the frenzy of eurofederalism, we are killing our industry: suffice it to mention the disastrous energy and climate package.
to date, the european commission has not been able to determine how many companies will move production to the eastern border, where similar climate standards do not apply.
i believe it is very important to focus on small and medium-sized enterprises, as they have the greatest potential to create sustainable growth.
the urgent task is to promote responsible business practices to increase the competitiveness of enterprises, social satisfaction and environmental improvement.
mr president, on monday the european court of auditors announced the results of an audit investigation into the way money on energy efficiency has been used in some member states.
we do not want cohesion funds for energy to be wasted.
in particular, the distribution of hazardous materials requires precise rules and labelling to ensure that it is carried out in a proper manner and without endangering citizens and the environment.
− the rules on the packaging and labelling of dangerous preparations and substances are designed to protect health and the environment.
− the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources is primarily about protecting individual fish species against 'predatory' fishing policies.
however, i hope that the changes adopted will contribute to improving the fisheries policy management system by better integrating fishermen and that the so-called ecosystem approach to fisheries will have a positive impact on the overall protection of the marine environment.
− the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources is primarily about protecting individual fish species against 'predatory' fishing policies.
however, i hope that the changes adopted will contribute to improving the fisheries policy management system by better integrating fishermen and that the so-called ecosystem approach to fisheries will have a positive impact on the overall protection of the marine environment.
they indicate the appropriate course of action in the event of a threat to biodiversity and human health.
in the european union, these regulations fall within the scope of directive 2004/35/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 2004, which applied the 'polluter pays' principle, according to which environmental damage is paid for by the entity that caused it.
it is important to adapt the cod fishing plan to the changing environmental conditions.
it is worth remembering that in the last financial perspective, the european union allocated some eur 4 billion to the common fisheries policy to ensure the sustainable development of the sector.
european energy policy should therefore be coordinated with cohesion policy.
one of the reasons for the weakening of the competitiveness of the european economy in the global context is the relatively high energy prices in europe.
if we want to maintain our position in world markets, we must make our energy policy effective.
it is not enough to call on other partners to follow our example in ambitious, noble and environmentally friendly plans for renewable energy.
that's why we should be strengthening our energy capacity.
it is much needed by countries concerned about their energy security and by all who care about a clean environment and its health.
financing this area from cohesion policy will help to increase europe's energy security and to move towards independence from external sources.
the report also focuses on the promotion of alternative and renewable energy sources.
this is mainly about exploiting the potential of renewable energy in rural areas, which could make some areas almost self-sufficient in energy.
- i voted in favour of this report because the rapporteur has raised a number of important issues in it: i agree with the statement that it is important to link energy policy and cohesion policy.
regions should be able to choose the projects in which they invest and have a strong influence on the choice of energy projects so that they are consistent with their strategy.
both cohesion and energy policies are of vital importance to the development of each of the eu's countries and regions.
the eu's energy projects include better infrastructure, alternative energy sources, lower energy prices, the fight against energy poverty and new jobs for the people of the old continent.
each region should have a say in the choice of energy projects, so that they are as well integrated as possible into its development programme.
i voted in favour of the report because it highlights three key points: the combination of energy policy and cohesion policy will stimulate growth, create jobs and reduce regional disparities.
thirdly, in the eu countries, it is very important to finance energy infrastructure.
it is not enough to build decentralized energy sources, but also to build the connections and the infrastructure that will deliver that energy to consumers.
an additional factor against emissions is that countries like greece and spain will slow down their public finance reforms.
an additional factor against emissions is that countries like greece and spain will slow down their public finance reforms.
iraq is a major exporter of fuel, which directly translates into its position in the international energy market.
the areas potentially covered by the full epa go beyond trade in goods to include services and investment, and trade-related areas such as sustainable development, competition and trade facilitation.
the european union is also committed to the development of a region in which israel, squeezed between the arab states, must make every effort to counterbalance the negative factors of its geopolitical and demographic environment.
in such an environment, any sign of weakness can become a burden to the balance sheet.
this appears to be due not only to the tightening of lending criteria by banks, but also to the reluctance of smes to borrow in the current uncertain economic environment.
on improving access to finance for smes, i would like to stress that in times of crisis the european union needs sustainable development.
only their real development and a stable business environment can guarantee the eu's exit from the crisis.
there is also a real problem with the consequences that the european parliament and the european commission are pushing for with the climate package.
he's just counting, wondering if it's worth it to produce steel in europe if energy prices are going to rise.
because there are solutions to the climate package, which, through the support of the states for the documents, inevitably leads to higher energy prices.
if the price of energy goes up, then the profitability of steel production in europe goes down, and if it does, then this man - as a businessman who is not involved in charity - will move his production where it pays more.
unfortunately, action is producing results, including action by the european parliament and the european commission, which does not take into account the real game of competition interests in the world, does not take into account that the climate package is rejected by the united states, russia, china, india or brazil.
if there is a crisis, we must help the economy, we must do everything we can to reduce regulation, we must do everything we can to reduce energy costs, we must rethink the climate package, because its effects will certainly be visible, but in terms of eliminating jobs in europe and moving other areas of production outside europe.
the need to reform the common fisheries policy is felt by all: fishermen, processors, the coastal community and the environment.
the most significant and incomprehensible effect of the current common fisheries policy is the waste of thousands of tonnes of healthy fish by the discarding of discards.
this is the biggest paradox of the common fisheries policy, which contributes to the degradation of the environment and the fishing industry.
for many coastal areas, small-scale fishing offers the opportunity to create many, many jobs while maintaining a sustainable approach.
the reform of the common fisheries policy, which is being negotiated in parliament, will improve the state of the environment and the situation of fishermen in the european union.
the european union needs reform that will protect and save the environment from destruction, while ensuring decent incomes for the fisheries and fish processing sectors.
overfishing is not just a problem for the environment, but also for fishermen and consumers.
the reform we have supported today goes a step further by committing member states to a sustainable and rationalised fixing of quotas.
the introduction of maximum sustainable yield from 2015 will help protect our seas from overfishing and provide a sense of stability for fishermen and consumers.
unfortunately, despite the long hours of work, it is still not sustainable, especially when it comes to the implementation of environmental legislation.
i believe that there is a hierarchy between fisheries policy and environmental protection, although they should be on an equal footing.
for example, you cannot make money from the european maritime and fisheries fund dependent on the administrative efficiency of the ministry of the environment.
the introduction of specific measures will compensate for the difficulties arising from the islands' isolation, insularity, small size, mountainous terrain and climate.
i believe that this will help to increase trade and improve the profitability of agricultural production, which is carried out in unfavourable conditions not only because of the particular geographical and environmental conditions, but also because of the high costs of raw materials and transport.
moreover, the lack of raw materials, as well as the unusual geophysical location (the union's external borders) and climate (dry, rocky soils) further exacerbate the problems of the local population.
- i supported the report on specific measures in the field of agriculture for the outermost regions of the european union, as i believe that it is necessary to support areas whose economic and social development is seriously hampered by their remoteness, insularity, small size, topography or climate.
smes need to have the right legal environment to benefit fully from the internal market, which will be beneficial for the european economy.
parliament therefore welcomes the steps taken by the commission within the planning of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, and in particular the new funding programmes such as cosme, which through the use of innovative financing instruments will help the situation of smes throughout europe, fostering sustainable recovery.
the main message of the growth analysis is that while ad hoc anti-crisis measures are starting to deliver positive effects in terms of deficit reduction and financial market sentiment, continued reforms are essential to achieve sustainable growth and job creation in the long term.
at the same time, in the report prepared by the econ committee, we call on the commission to put forward concrete proposals in the report to be presented to the european council, in addition to the strategy for implementing sustainable fiscal discipline, to promote private investment, to improve the efficiency of tax systems and to create jobs.
the reason for this is undoubtedly that the bear population is threatened by climate change - as my colleague said earlier - and the associated loss of habitat, and the extra extraction of bears through hunting certainly does not help the shrinking populations.
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by raffaele baldassarre, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on corporate social responsibility: accountable, transparent and responsible business behaviour and sustainable growth (com(2011)0681 – 2012/2098(ini)) (a7-0017/2013), and– the report by richard howitt, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on corporate social responsibility: promoting society’s interests and a route to sustainable and inclusive recovery com(2011)0681 – 2012/2097(ini)) (a7-0023/2013).
the commission's communication also reaffirms our commitment and my own commitment to present a legislative proposal on the dissemination of social and environmental information by companies.
we remain committed to the multilateral approach which is characterised by corporate social responsibility in our union and we want to reaffirm europe's ambition to lead the global debate on this issue, much as we do with regard to environmental policy.
corporate social responsibility is the voluntary, over and above the minimum legal requirements, incorporation of social and environmental issues into business activities and relationships with stakeholders.
the basic premise of corporate social responsibility is that business behaves responsibly and ethically towards the social groups it affects, with the greatest possible respect for the environment.
the added value of csr is its flexibility - companies can adapt their plans and ideas in this area to their business strategies, thus making an even more positive impact on the environment in which they operate.
i also think we have to finally get rid of the assumption that the activities of entrepreneurs, both small and large, are always against the interests of the local community and endanger the environment.
practice shows that entrepreneurs do not need to be persuaded or coerced to conduct their business on the basis of the principles of transparency and sustainability.
it is an important factor in the positive actions of enterprises in their social and environmental environments.
it is understandable that the common good and the health of citizens throughout the european union should be sought by limiting the noise emissions of motor vehicles used for broadly defined transport purposes, especially commercial ones.
therefore, i ask both the commission (the applicant) and the environment commissioner to make a clear statement for the future that the new noise emission limits will not apply to canoeing and other motor sports.
− the european union's development objectives are set out in the europe 2020 strategy, which is based on closer coordination of economic policies, with a particular focus on the key areas for action to boost europe's potential for sustainable growth and competitiveness.
this task is primarily to reduce the recklessly imposed administrative burdens and climate and energy policies leading to the deindustrialisation of europe.
the proposal therefore aims at adapting the directive to the current pharmaceutical environment while preserving its core foundations.
this shows the importance of the sector and its impact on other important areas such as the economy, employment and the environment.
i hope that the solutions proposed will contribute to the development of this sector, the sustainable exploitation of marine resources, the effective protection of the marine environment, and the security of the food supply.
the changes in this area would take effect from the beginning of 2014. the main objective of the regulation is to create the conditions for the recovery of fish stocks by 2020 so that fisheries in europe become a sustainable sector.
the main complications were the lack of environmental sustainability, due to the problem of 'overfishing', the vulnerability of fishing fleets to 'external shocks' (even if high fuel prices), the inability to achieve relative economic stability, the lack of social sustainability (the sector has ceased to be a source of attractive jobs for potential new generations of fishermen) and the complexity of the legal framework, which in turn closes the loop and makes it difficult to achieve the sustainable natural environment mentioned above.
it is absolutely crucial to sustainable fishing that the control system is reformed to take into account specific characteristics and sizes of different european fleets.
we have adopted a good document which takes account of the requirements of sustainable fishing, rationalization, sustainable fishing methods, and the shaping of fishing effort.
we see that the current fisheries policy has failed, with the increase in overfished stocks compared to 2002. without a sustainable fisheries policy, we would expose the environment to irreversible, catastrophic consequences, with many fish species reduced to a minimum or even extinct.
the alarming state of the environment and the difficult economic situation of fishermen and businesses prompted the commission to start work on reforming the common fisheries policy in 2011. the proposed changes are mainly to introduce sustainable fishing quotas by 2015 to restore fish stocks to sustainable levels by 2020 and to establish a discard ban for all species caught.
this will improve the environment and rebuild marine resources, while benefiting fishermen by increasing their profits and consumers by providing them with easier access to cheaper fish.
the cost of an irrational marine policy is about €865 million a year, according to biodiversity organisations, and resources have declined by 26% in the last 10 years.
i believe that the proposed changes, which aim to introduce lower limits on motor vehicle noise and new methods of measuring noise, will improve the quality of life, health and the environment.
− a report on the permissible sound levels of motor vehicles has been drawn up in the environment committee.
i congratulate the rapporteur because the subject of the work was primarily technical and the voices of citizens, industry and environmental organisations were included in the discussion.
- motor transport is undoubtedly one of the main causes of environmental noise.
improved methods of testing noise emissions, systematic monitoring of the road surface, which also contributes to vehicle noise, and better information to consumers on vehicle noise levels are certainly needed.
i am confident that the new legislation will benefit citizens and the environment and will be an important step towards reducing noise.
the commission proposal for a regulation on the sound level of motor vehicles has as its principal objective the protection of public health and the environment through measures to reduce the sound level of motor vehicles.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety wants new standards to be introduced in the setting of noise standards.
- the idea of reducing the noise level of motor vehicles is a good one, as it will improve public health and protect the environment.
the proposed increase in co-financing levels is not sustainable.
i hope that the solutions proposed will contribute to the sustainable management of fisheries resources and to better protection of the marine environment.
the changes in this area would take effect from the beginning of 2014. the main objective of the regulation is to create the conditions for the recovery of fish stocks by 2020 so that fisheries in europe become a sustainable sector.
the reform of the union's common fisheries policy aims to prevent overfishing by introducing sustainable fisheries and creating the conditions for fish stocks to be renewed by 2020. the regionalisation of fisheries management is a very important aspect of the reform.
− technical protection measures are the rules that our fishermen throughout the european union must apply every day when they go fishing to ensure that the place and the way they fish guarantee their sustainability.
this proposal is unfortunately temporary and does not provide fishermen with a clear legal position, but it does ensure sustainable fishing and allows reproduction in ecosystems.
persecution of christians takes many forms, from social and environmental discrimination to rape and brutal murder.
the fight against global warming is not a european problem, it is a problem for the whole planet and for all countries.
in such a situation, further reductions, raising the bar, not only lose their ecological meaning, but become economically unreasonable.
european industry is losing its competitiveness, companies are being moved to countries where there are no such strict rules, and our citizens are paying ever higher energy bills.
many meps are calling for the eu to take a united stance at the climate conference.
this is an unrealistic proposition, given the conflicting conclusions reached by scientists on the actual human impact on climate change and its scale, on the one hand, and the conflicting interests of the member states in this respect, on the other.
the whole european action to combat global warming is centred around reducing carbon dioxide emissions, or co2.
if, for example, in france about 75% of energy comes from atomic energy and in poland more than 90% from coal, it is difficult to expect a unified position on this matter in practice, despite sincere wishes.
even assuming a serious human impact on the atmosphere, it is not possible in the short term to demand that the national economies of many eu member states be sacrificed on the altar of the climate battle.
this will lead to an increase in energy prices in the express mode, while at the same time intensifying anti-eu sentiment.
it is not poland that is holding back the achievement of global climate goals, but the largest emitters.
poland signed the kyoto protocol and under its presidency the durban climate negotiations made the furthest progress.
the next generation wants nothing else: they want a clean environment, a healthy life, but also a job and a decent life, but in europe.
secondly, we need to make binding decisions on financial support for the poorest, those who suffer from climate change, but also those who have to adapt their industry in some way.
europe is facing many ambitious climate policy challenges.
and this question concerns the common voice of the european union at the cop 19 climate conference, the un climate conference that will be held in warsaw, which i am very pleased about and i think i can say that i am proud of.
we're cutting emissions, we're supporting renewable energy, but we have to do the same with things like shale gas.
climate change needs to be emitted by all the emitters, so there's no global agreement without countries like china, brazil, india, but we need to take effective action to do that.
maybe we should address these controversial issues, like free trade agreements and greenhouse gas reductions and development aid and the new climate agreement.
we agree that we need to fight climate change and introduce all kinds of laws and articles that will make it possible for us to simply say that we are really effective.
the problem is, unfortunately, the ideological approach which condemns coal and shale gas as the sources of energy that europe does not need.
i think that the european investment bank should - and i agree entirely with my esteemed predecessor - be involved in green, renewable energy projects, especially as some governments, like the government in my country, poland, are withdrawing from these projects and scrapping the social initiatives related to them.
- biodiversity is declining rapidly and in direct proportion to the demand for endangered animals or plants.
the proposed savings and cuts are justified wherever there is a suspicion of waste of public funds, such as the fact that two, or rather three, european parliament seats are maintained.
there is no doubt that, as a matter of principle, trade should not be detached from other eu policies, internal or external, and should in no way lead to abuses in the areas of working conditions, democratic freedoms or the environment.
modern, socially responsible companies are not indifferent to such actions as environmental protection and the introduction of special social and protection programmes for employees.
today, it is of the utmost importance that efforts, especially in the area of global business, are aligned with environmental, social and human rights standards.
i do not agree with the attempt to shift the responsibility for environmental protection measures taken by public authorities to the business community.
− promoting corporate social responsibility (csr) avoids harmful trends and tendencies emerging from the crisis in a society functioning in a particular environment.
- the concept of csr is an innovative response to various social or environmental problems.
companies want to implement csr and we need to ensure that we provide the right legal environment, but also promote a general attitude that will motivate companies to voluntarily incorporate csr into their practices.
europe, but also the international community, is faced with the need to incorporate real guarantees of sustainable development and social rights into the rules of trade in the name of cohesion.
− the annual growth survey sets out the economic priorities for 2013 and indicates that while the temporary anti-crisis measures are beginning to deliver positive effects in terms of deficit reduction and financial market sentiment, continued reforms are essential to achieve sustainable growth and job creation in the long term.
the resolution also calls on the commission to present a report to the european council on the implementation of a strategy for sustainable fiscal discipline, with specific proposals to promote private investment, improve the efficiency of tax systems and create jobs.
− the european semester constitutes one of the bases for sustainable functioning of the euro area with the aim of fostering competitiveness and convergence across the european union.
− the european semester constitutes one of the bases for sustainable functioning of the euro area with the aim of fostering competitiveness and convergence across the european union.
one of them is the tight adherence to the energy and climate package.
however, freedom as a principle underpinning the functioning of the single market should not have a negative impact on the behaviour of firms and thus run counter to consumer, worker or environmental protection rules.
the most important areas where further action is needed relate to the digital market, services and energy.
research and development, the common agricultural policy, energy policy and environmental sustainability, when setting its lending policy.
they have put together a package that is important for europe's energy strategies in a considerable amount of time.
whether you want to optimise security of supply, whether you want to use increasing shares of renewable energy in the electricity sector, whether you want to show solidarity in an emergency, whether you want to strengthen competition and thus the consumer, infrastructure is the necessary basis for this.
the new world is a transfrontier, pan-european world, which includes the member states, but also countries such as norway, switzerland, the western balkans, ukraine, turkey and other european countries participating in our energy community.
every two years we will continue the list, in close cooperation with the regulators, the transmission system operators, the national ministers responsible, the european energy industry, in order to determine in the coming years the order in which gas pipelines, electricity networks and bridges should be developed across the borders of the member states.
the question of environmental and landscape protection, the question of interference with the landscape, the distance requirement for settlements, all these questions can be resolved in three and a half years.
then there is the financing: we anticipate the necessary investment in energy infrastructure in the european union of some 200 billion euros over the next few years.
investors have offers beyond the energy sector, in real estate, in industry, in other sectors of the economy and in infrastructure outside europe.
the citizens and the investors must be made to understand that this pipeline is a business because it has become part of our european energy strategy.
in recent years we have had experience of co-financing european energy infrastructure.
we are now building on the fact that there will be more than eur 5 billion available in the next multiannual budgetary framework for connecting europe in the area of energy infrastructure.
we have now made great strides towards a pan-european energy infrastructure for electricity and gas with the package which parliament is about to adopt.
in the context of the opinion on the guidelines for cross-border energy infrastructure, the committee on transport draws attention to the european energy policy, which needs above all stability, competitiveness and security of supply of energy sources, thus ensuring benefits for the smooth functioning of the transport sector of the european union.
i believe that in order to develop energy infrastructure as well as transport infrastructure more efficiently, full compatibility between the projects of both infrastructures should be ensured.
to this end, the authorising authorities should grant permits jointly for such projects, for example in the field of the environment.
in the context of the current revitalisation and shaping of the newly created energy infrastructure, we should bear in mind that stable and flexible national transmission networks remain an important element of the development of the energy infrastructure.
− european regions must be regarded as equal partners in the process of locating and implementing trans-european energy investments and benefit from them on an equal footing at every stage.
the committee on regional development sees investment in trans-european energy networks as an important opportunity to deepen the economic integration of the european union.
it is also important for us that all forms of eu aid to project promoters be granted on the basis of the expected costs to energy consumers, in order to avoid the socialisation of costs and the commercialisation of profits.
finally, the trans-european energy networks should treat the distribution of energy from renewable sources in a non-discriminatory manner.
the same can be said of other energy sources.
− mr president, on the external dimension of energy: the geopolitics of energy are changing, new producers are emerging and resources like shale gas are become more equally distributed, more diversified and the markets more liquid.
we may soon see a global democratisation of energy, but we are not there yet, nor is the european union’s energy security guaranteed.
the eu must therefore respond to the changing energy landscape in planning its energy policy up to 2050. gas – thanks to global shale evolution – and the increasing role of energy, is likely to play a much more long-term and prominent role in europe’s energy mix than the commission assumes in its energy roadmap, also allowing for greater emission reduction.
also, the european commission’s over-optimistic assumptions on achieving globally-negotiated climate targets should be accompanied by a scenario b, in case the outcome is less positive.
the eu’s external energy policy must be reinforced.
we do have instruments like internal market competition law, the energy community treaty and the enp.
it is good that growing external energy competence is happening, but we should go further and think of coordinating energy purchasing from outside the union and even go towards joint purchasing.
so there's something for everyone there - supporters of nuclear, renewable and coal - and that's good, because that's the energy basket we need in europe.
on the one hand, we have the uncontrolled expansion of german renewable energy, which has led to a situation where many gas-fired power plants are simply shut down.
common eu rules on the power market, on support for renewable energy, and work on the communityisation of this market are needed to make this future policy also common.
this is why we cannot agree to the wording of article 91, which means a radical tightening of climate policy, which entails raising the costs for all energy-intensive industries, such as paper, chemicals, fertilisers for agriculture, glass, steel for plants that compete at the same time with similar plants in china, russia, canada or the usa.
total decarbonisation, which is mentioned in the report, is one of the european superstitions that has nothing to do with the energy reality - also in our part of the world.
analysts estimate that by 2035, more than half of our energy will come from fossil fuels.
hence, political discrimination against fossil fuels is not only unrealistic, but also has very negative consequences for our industry, blocks the necessary investment in energy, deprives the market of the necessary stability and is ultimately the main reason why energy in europe is the most expensive in the world.
the claim that renewables will account for 75 to 97% of energy in 2050 and that co2 emissions will be reduced accordingly is unfounded.
there is also no energy infrastructure project, and the legislation itself does not prohibit it.
the second objective (after efficiency) should be energy security, which has been declining in recent years, not decarbonisation.
i also think we need to pay more attention to geothermal energy.
the eu cannot create an energy sector which is already uncompetitive on a global scale and reduces our overall competitiveness.
i believe that the role of fossil fuels in ensuring the european union's energy security should no longer be marginalized.
coal should not be treated as a 'dirty fuel' but as a common good for citizens, and we should work together to optimise existing technologies and develop new ones that reduce the burden on the environment.
the european commission's approach also fails to recognise that the key pillar of energy security is the reliance on and easy access to energy resources in the eu member states.
it is therefore most rational from this point of view for countries to develop those energy technologies in which they have the greatest potential and experience.
and those that guarantee a continuous supply of stable and cheap energy.
i thank the rapporteur for reminding the european commission that it is up to the member states to define their own energy mix.
the key is to abandon the blind and ineffective energy and climate policy aimed at further reducing co2 emissions.
it is also very appropriate to call on the community to take all possible measures to prevent radioactive waste from being deposited in areas where there is a high risk of natural disasters.
the concept of sharing and implementing good practices in the field of renewable energy generation should also be supported.
on lulucf, we have, overall, been able to secure an outcome that is an important step forward in meeting our international commitments and in developing our climate policy.
the compromise meets the main objectives of the commission proposal: it is in line with the respective decision taken in the international climate talks in durban and ensures the full implementation of the international requirements under the unfccc and the kyoto protocol both now and towards 2020. it will allow harmonised accounting for the greenhouse gas emissions and removals from the lulucf sector.
including this sector in the national accounts of the member states closes an important gap and ensures that in the future all sectors can contribute to the mitigation of climate change.
this decision is also a central piece of legislation for a sustainable bioeconomy.
by including greenhouse gas accounting from the lulucf sector into eu law and setting out a roadmap to advance the methodologies and systems to track greenhouse gases related to agricultural soils, we are making sure that emissions and removal related to biomass use and carbon sequestration are fully reflected in the eu’s accounts.
the next step is related to the question of how and when emissions and removals from the lulucf sector can be included in the union’s emission reduction commitment.
to conclude, this decision on lulucf is an important milestone and fills a gap in our domestic climate policy.
it will greatly facilitate a debate on what role this sector should play in the eu’s future climate policy.
i would like to make a few remarks on the mmr, where the commission’s proposal was intended firstly to improve the current monitoring and reporting mechanism, secondly to fully implement the monitoring and reporting requirements set out in the 2009 climate and energy package, thirdly to provide a solid basis for implementation of the union and member states’ international obligations until the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, and lastly, to create the means for future monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and the further development of eu climate change policies.
in particular this is the case for some issues linked to the reporting on low carbon development strategies, climate finance, reporting frequency and a broader mandate for the adoption of delegated and implementing acts.
the commission nevertheless welcomes this compromise text because it provides the tools the union and the member states need to continue playing a pivotal role in the international effort to keep the temperature increase below 2°c, minimise the impact of climate change and ensure full and effective implementation of their international and eu obligations.
i would like to ask the honourable member, with respect for the sensitivity of the climate change issue: as a representative of the socialist group, are you not afraid and do you not see a causal link between the excessive commitment of the european union to reducing co2 emissions and the growing crisis and rising unemployment?
do you not see the link, the dependence, that large companies are moving production outside europe, to countries that are not concerned with reducing co2 emissions, such as the countries of the former soviet union, the asian countries, the usa, where europe and its labour market are losing out?
a uniform system defining reporting obligations and accounting methods for greenhouse gas emissions is clearly necessary.
in determining this type of regulation, account should be taken of the different conditions in the member states as well as their international commitments - in this case, those relating to climate conventions.
at the same time, double reporting of emissions and removals under the climate convention and unnecessary additional administrative costs should be avoided.
climate policy is becoming a key element for the development of the economies of the individual countries of the european union.
it is clear that the area of competitiveness which is the european union's concern is primarily energy costs.
the united states understands this very well, and by developing its shale gas market and implementing its climate policy, it has become a competitor to the far east.
we cannot hold back the development of countries by imposing irrational climate policies.
european energy policy still fails to meet the needs of energy security and security of supply.
the problem is the lack of full energy integration in the union.
this leads to huge and widening differences in average energy prices, with a direct impact on the costs of industry in general.
meanwhile, we're focusing on reducing greenhouse gas emissions instead of taking broad action to diversify our supply.
in supporting the resolution, i count on the benefits of accelerating the completion of the internal energy market.
this is particularly relevant for a number of countries that are dependent on one of the energy suppliers.
− energy infrastructure sharing projects are an important element in the process of strengthening european energy efficiency.
−equal access for all to sustainable, safe, secure and affordable energy is one of the great challenges uniting europeans.
despite the ambition, european energy policy is making slow progress.
although the commission has set ambitious energy policy objectives on competitiveness, security of supply, sustainability and emission reduction, we are still faced today with a lack of integration of the internal energy market, significant energy isolation of certain geographical areas, and a lack of energy supply in the union.
− once again, this report has focused too much on green energy, which is a departure from the main theme.
i'm just reminding you that there's no diversification of energy supply without building nabucco, which the author-rapporteur seems to forget.
i voted against because i don't agree with further reductions in co2 emissions and green policies instead of rational policies.
given that over 12.2% of petitions in 2011 concerned environmental risks, in particular the failure of national authorities to apply the principles of the so-called environmental directive, both the committee on petitions and the erpo should make every effort to ensure that each complaint is properly analysed and resolved.
i support the ombudsman's view that open and transparent mediation procedures should be conducted more frequently before projects with potentially significant environmental impacts on the region and the health of its inhabitants are undertaken.
the weaknesses of the current environmental impact assessment directives had been highlighted in this issue, therefore the commission proposed to correct this.
as a result of the inspection, the commission concluded that the environmental impact assessment provided for in the eia directive should be carried out.
the airport in vienna was extended without a mandatory environmental impact assessment of the investment and the inhabitants of the area around the airport.
− the agriculture and forestry sectors are important in terms of greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere.
the appropriate approach and the maintenance of biodiversity in these sectors will result in an increase in carbon uptake by terrestrial ecosystems.
promoting organic farming, maintaining or increasing the area of permanent grassland and applying the right cultivation practices - proper crop rotation, selection of crops according to soil type and local ecosystems - can help to achieve the objectives of climate change policy.
action should be taken to implement appropriate fertilisation policies, soil protection or promotion of perennial crops where this will bring tangible benefits to both the farmer and the environment.
− land use, land use change and forestry (lulucf) accounting is a key element of climate change policy.
this may contribute to, inter alia, mitigation, adaptation, the protection of biodiversity and the sustainable use of natural resources.
in this context, accounting for the lulucf sector in the european union should have three overarching objectives: - to facilitate compliance with the independent international commitments of the member states and the european union as parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc) and the kyoto protocol; - to ensure policy coherence with existing and contemplated union legislation for future coordination and integration, including, inter alia, the common agricultural policy (cap) and the renewable energy directive; and - to ensure that accounting practices and methods are consistent with the principles of transparency, consistency, comparability, completeness and accuracy adopted not only within the member states but also between them as member states of the european union.
− the accounting for lulucf in the european union should have three overarching objectives: to facilitate compliance with the independent international commitments of the member states and the european union; to ensure policy coherence with existing and contemplated union legislation for future coordination and integration, including, inter alia, the common agricultural policy (cap) and the renewable energy directive; and to ensure that accounting practices and methodologies are in line with the adopted principles of transparency, consistency, comparability, completeness and accuracy.
however, the interests of nation states, often linked to coal as the main energy source, must always be given priority.
madam president, i voted against all reports concerning greenhouse gas emissions.
the energy climate package is a disaster for europe and especially for a country like poland.
we have to get at least a million signatures in seven countries of the european union to say ‘stop the energy climate package’, so do not hesitate, do not waste your time: enter the website and say ‘stop the energy climate package’.
- although the report seems to deal only with technical issues related to the system for monitoring and accounting for greenhouse gas emissions, i cannot agree to a further step towards deepening climate policy in europe.
for the european union's unbridled ambition and drive to lead on climate change, countries like poland are already paying a huge price in rising electricity, gas and coal prices.
behind them, not only are europe's co2 emissions leaking out, but also - something we don't always remember in the environmental context - we are losing jobs in industry and its business environment.
octs located in the indian ocean, the caribbean, the atlantic or the pacific face new challenges such as the globalisation of trade, new environmental problems, risks linked to climatic anomalies, which europe must also face.
their sustainable development is therefore a necessity.
i am referring in particular to the codecision procedure, which obliges the council to take parliament into account throughout the legislative process, particularly in such an important area as the pollution of drinking water.
−safety of drinking water for european citizens is one of the main areas of concern for human health and environmental protection policy.
- the european union reviews each year the progress made towards the objectives set in 1995. the platform for action sets out a programme covering the following 12 areas: poverty, education and training, health, violence, armed conflict, the economy, power and decision-making, institutional mechanisms, human rights, the media, the environment and female children.
as the s&d co-rapporteur on horizontal regulation, i would like to reiterate and stress that the final document should contain our basic elements, our demands: transparency we are in favour of the names of the beneficiaries being published; environmental protection farmers should comply with the rules of cross compliance; protection of biodiversity change; simplification especially for small farmers, especially up to 10h; support for organic production; introduction of multiannual applications for direct payments this is also a limiting error.
we want farmers to care about the environment.
in addition, the burden on this pillar is too high for agri-environment programmes up to 25% of the funds from this pillar are to be allocated to this purpose.
because we are not economically active, we allow ukraine to look east, and thus we risk another energy crisis.
i would like to replace the word 'defined' with 'considered' because, firstly, the word 'considered' better reflects the original polish text of this amendment and, secondly, we would like to avoid a situation in which we would even have a hint that it is a definition of energy poverty.
this amendment is not about defining energy poverty, it's about raising the issue of energy poverty.
many acp countries are small economies and therefore it is very important for them to have access to infrastructure (energy, roads, warehouses, etc.)
− together with the ecr group, i voted against the changes proposed by parliament to the new eu financial perspective for 2014-2020. the compromise on the eu budget negotiated in february envisaged a focus on cohesion policy, while parliament is calling for a shift to research, climate and innovation, which will mean a reduction in funding for poland and other eastern european countries.
in many countries, the labour market situation for young people is dramatic and without support from the eu budget, public funding for activation programmes would be minimal in the current economic climate.
− the new cap should take account of the following priorities: transparency, environmental protection and simplification.
second, the protection of the environment.
in addition, farmers should respect the principles of cross compliance, such as soil and water protection, the control of animal and plant diseases, food safety, and the protection of biodiversity.
the key is to abandon the blind and ineffective energy and climate policy aimed at further reducing co2 emissions.
- action towards a low-carbon economy must be based on real conditions, not on the ambitions of euro-bureaucrats and declarations forced on us by lobby groups.
it is one thing to push for renewable energy, which i support, but it is another to push for clean and safe nuclear energy, which i support.
however, it is naive and frivolous to talk about a low- or zero-carbon economy without any economic vision for the eu countries in the perspective of 2050, and without any vision for how to use available and cheap alternative energy sources, and without any vision for the future consumption pattern.
this ridiculous project has no practical future unless it takes full account of climate justice, i.e.
the distribution of the global and eu climate burden based on per capita co2 emissions.
- i voted today to adopt the report by mrs tzaveli on the future energy policy of the european union.
the report sets targets for 2050 for greenhouse gas emissions, renewable energy, energy efficiency and indicates the benefits that can be achieved by investing in and developing these energy policy areas.
we need a clean and sustainable energy system that will lead to equal competitiveness and independence in the energy market in the future.
the development of these areas is of great importance in view of the ever-increasing demand for energy.
i also welcomed the fact that the report does not ignore the issue of environmental protection.
− the 2050 energy action plan is an important document because long-term policy strategies are essential when planning for costly energy investments.
the rejection of some of the most radical demands, such as the eu's commitment to green energy and the discrimination against shale gas, should be welcomed.
this includes underestimating the role of shale gas in building the eu's energy capacity, building an energy strategy on the assumption of a global climate agreement, lacking plans to coordinate energy purchases outside the union and lacking a credible cost analysis for ambitious energy and climate targets.
first of all, however, it is unacceptable to call for a change in the rules of the european carbon trading system by suspending emission allowances (backloading) when the price of the allowances falls.
in my view, changing the previously agreed legal framework of the scheme to manipulate emissions prices violates the principles of the eu ets as a market instrument, reduces its credibility and distorts sustainable and competitive access to energy.
− energy security and climate change prevention are of paramount importance.
energy efficiency and reducing pollution in europe are important.
is there a real chance of influencing the biggest emitters of greenhouse gases like china, india, brazil or the united states to reduce emissions and how to do that?
all the tools to prevent global warming and its negative consequences should be developed for the benefit of future generations.
− unfortunately, the report was not acceptable because of the clause calling for reform of the european co2 emissions trading system.
− in december 2011, the european commission (ec) adopted the energy action plan 2050, a long-term strategy that takes into account the opportunities and challenges associated with achieving the european union's (eu) 2050 emissions reduction target while ensuring the security of energy supply and europe's competitiveness.
the energy sector generates about 80% of total emissions in the eu.
the 2050 target is therefore a test for existing energy systems.
in particular, paragraph 91 which talks about tightening climate policy goes far beyond the previously included compromise on so-called back-loading (this is about faster extinguishing of allowances during ets stage iii).
i believe that these regulations will be detrimental to our industry, which in turn could lead to a reduction in jobs in the energy and mining sectors and an increase in the already high unemployment rate.
- the tzaveli report contains many very good solutions: it calls for diversification of hydrocarbon suppliers, greater energy solidarity and increased energy expenditure in the eu.
these are important considerations, given that the eu today produces only 7% of the world's energy, with ever-increasing demand.
so are the amendments on shale gas and green energy.
− solidarny poland, which i represent in the european parliament, is in favour of basing european energy on coal and gas - natural resources that provide a significant number of jobs and are currently the basis of the eu's energy basket.
we are opposed to the development of nuclear energy, but we leave the final decision to the member states.
we believe that any 'yes' to the atom must be backed up by a significant amount of regulation to protect the environment and people from the negative impacts of nuclear power plants.
the risk of irreversible changes in the environment and the human body is simply too high.
− recognising the high harmfulness of asbestos materials, we should make every effort to eliminate asbestos and all its derivatives from our environment as quickly as possible.
− the report of the committee on employment and social affairs touches on an important public health aspect of the removal of all asbestos-containing products from the environment.
- the problems caused by the presence of asbestos-containing products in our environment are undeniable.
we must do our utmost to reduce, in a skilful and intelligent manner, the risks to human health posed by asbestos in the immediate environment.
− the main objective is the safe disposal of asbestos-containing products and waste from the european union area.
this will be achieved by: increasing the knowledge of the population about asbestos, its safe use and disposal (eliminating the social acceptance of illegal behaviour related to asbestos, unauthorised dismantling and dumping of waste, including into forests, eliminating the creation of 'wild landfills'); creating the right conditions for the implementation of the applicable legislation and good practices related to asbestos products; creating favourable conditions for the disposal of asbestos products throughout the programme period; monitoring the generation and proper management of asbestos waste; organising the collection and disposal of asbestos waste.
china is also an aggressive player in the energy market.
beijing is not concerned with international environmental standards and continues to take no steps to reduce co2 emissions and improve water quality.
this is an environment where the stain of corruption in sports is particularly visible.
what happens in iraq determines to a large extent the situation in its international environment and vice versa.
one of the key reasons for the loss of competitiveness of the european economy is energy prices, including co2 costs.
there is no energy-intensive industry in europe, whether it be cement, gypsum, paper, chemicals, or fertilisers for agriculture, that would not protest against this policy.
environmental policy should be implemented at community level and by the member states.
the timing of greenhouse gas emissions auctions is not only a matter of environmental concern, but also of diversifying the energy mix of member states.
the adoption of backloading, according to the commission's proposal, will deepen the economic crisis and lead to higher energy prices, thus lowering competitiveness and increasing unemployment and widening the sphere of energy poverty.
the commission's proposed package of interim solutions to the emissions trading system fundamentally changes the allocation auction schedule, significantly reducing the quantities to be auctioned.
it will only cause a considerable increase in energy costs.
in most member states, emissions are declining steadily.
his main goal was to reduce emissions, and he's doing that.
the rationale for the introduction of the ets as a trading system for emissions in europe was that it was a market mechanism but also that it would have an impact on meeting the 20% emission reduction target by 2020. what's wrong, man?
the draft amendment to the directive is a threat to jobs and the risk of further increases in energy prices.
the commission report also shows that backloading will cause a continuous increase in energy prices and a major threat to the european economy.
there is virtually no progress in the global climate agreement we cannot, by ourselves, weaken ourselves.
the emissions trading border happens to be on the eastern border of poland.
this is not only the case for polskie zakłady cementowe (which have invested over eur 120 million in environmental protection in recent years), but also for 13 cement factories belonging to 9 international groups, which employ 25 000 people in poland.
so the effect will be that we will lose jobs, and the emissions will not decrease, but on the contrary, will increase, because in addition to the emissions from the production, which will take place a few dozen kilometers away, there will be co2 emissions from the transport of cement from belarus to poland.
backloading is the first step towards the permanent removal of system allowances and thus towards raising the 2020 greenhouse gas emission reduction target.
the council and parliament have agreed that the reduction target for the european union can only be increased if a global climate agreement is reached.
the implementation of the european commission's proposal will cause a sharp increase in the price of permits and will translate into further increases in energy prices in the context of the ongoing economic downturn.
the commission's proposal to change the timetable for the european emissions trading system's co2 auction, which aims to increase the price of co2 allowances, is a bad project because it upsets the balance between climate policy and the economic objectives of the member states.
it is incomprehensible that in a situation of economic slowdown and the restoration of the competitiveness of european industry, we want to inflate energy prices and weaken the pace of recovery.
the system remains fluid, so climate targets can simply be achieved at a lower cost to the economy.
this action will not change the face of the system but will contribute to increasing price volatility in the energy market.
the need for reform of emissions trading is justified and the design of the instrument itself needs to be reconsidered.
we cannot allow climate policy to be over-ambitious at the expense of the economy.
the eu's co2 emissions are about 11% of the world's.
without china, brazil or the us convinced of the merits of the eu's climate change approach, there is no chance of achieving significant emissions reductions.
european climate policy is designed to adapt the european economy to the reality of climate change.
its tool is the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions achieved through initiatives such as the ets.
emissions trading has so far been a way of curbing emissions, which has also been greatly helped by the weakening of the european economy as a result of the global crisis.
just as the economies of western europe have long since begun to shift towards renewable energy sources, the economies of the new member states have for decades been dictated by central planning, which has perpetuated their inefficient and unsustainable energy consumption.
we cannot subordinate economic growth and thus energy and consumer goods prices to a climate policy that is overriding, because this could lead to a decline in living standards and a deepening of the very unfavourable energy poverty.
the more so as the carbon market is functioning well.
chaotic market intervention reduces predictability and holds back investment in energy-intensive industries.
moreover, backloading appears to be the first step towards raising the 2020 greenhouse gas emission reduction target.
this could happen, as agreed by the council and parliament, if the next global climate agreement is reached.
i am very much of the opinion that the increase in reduction targets for europe should only be made in situations where a global climate agreement is reached.
it is based on the idea that a global agreement on emission reductions in this sector must be reached first before an emissions tax is introduced at eu level.
i regret that a similar reflection has not taken place in the european union on the functioning of the climate package, which is very damaging to our economies.
i also think that the problem is the competitiveness of european companies, both in terms of the climate package and the issue we are discussing right now.
the objective of the common fisheries policy is to exploit biological resources in water while respecting the principle of sustainable development, taking into account economic, environmental and social aspects.
− the objective of the common fisheries policy is to exploit biological resources in a sustainable manner, taking into account economic, environmental and social aspects.
− in the context of the vote on the report on the greenhouse gas auction timetable, i supported amendment 20, which rejected the ec's proposal to expect the suspension of 900 million co2 allowances from 2013. in my view, the current emissions trading system is a well-functioning market mechanism for achieving the climate targets set.
last year, greenhouse gas emissions in poland fell by a further 3.2%, and in the eu by 1.4%.
the 2008 climate package is being effectively implemented by eu countries.
therefore, the commission's intervention in the greenhouse gas auction schedule, the so-called backloading, aimed at artificially increasing the price of co2 emission allowances, is an unjustified proposal for me, especially in times of economic crisis.
on the other hand, the agreement reached in the climate package makes it conditional on the modification of the targets set therein from the acceptance of binding commitments by other countries, including china, india, russia, brazil or the usa, to a similar level of reduction.
− in the vote on the report on the timetable for the auctioning of greenhouse gas emission allowances, i was in favour of rejecting this project, although i agree with the general idea of reducing co2 emissions and moving towards a green economy.
the proposed provisions are not exclusively environmental in nature but also have an impact on the diversification of the energy structure.
for poland, which could lose up to around eur 1 042 million between 2017 and 2020. as a result, citizens would bear the costs of increasing energy prices and thus final goods and services.
according to this proposal, by the end of 2011 the surplus was 955 million and this figure will increase as the supply of allowances exceeds the demand, the carbon prices have fallen from eur 30 per tonne of co2 to around eur 7 per tonne of co2.
in order to stimulate the economy, encourage investment in low-carbon technologies and decarbonise the european union from high-carbon infrastructure, the proposal proposes that the commission may adjust the auction schedule if necessary.
− the european greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme (ets) is a highly exciting issue.
no one denies the need to fight global warming.
on the other hand, it is also clear that different countries have different carbon emissions from their energy systems.
poland's energy sector is still largely based on hard and brown coal.
the european commission's proposals to freeze part of the greenhouse gas emission allowances have therefore caused considerable excitement in poland.
in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report on the timetable for the auctioning of greenhouse gas emission allowances and, within that framework, against the commission's proposal.
we have defended our position and convinced the majority of the european parliament to adopt a sensible climate policy.
the european union is on the path to reducing co2 emissions and there is no need to artificially interfere with the emissions market, as we have proved today in the vote.
the european parliament's decision on directive 2003/87/ec on the emissions trading system means that it does not agree to unacceptable interference with the originally adopted market pricing mechanism for co2 emission allowances.
meps' rejection of the commission's initiative may also have been influenced by europe's 'isolation' in its efforts to reach a global climate agreement.
the absence of such an agreement means that the adoption of further, very costly climate initiatives is not delivering the expected global impact and is undermining the already reduced competitiveness of european economies.
unilaterally imposed environmental taxes are proving to be a major obstacle to the operations of air carriers, increasing the cost of connections.
i am in favour of the implementation of the so-called stop-clock proposal for aviation emissions trading, without any additional restrictions, as some members of the environment committee have advocated.
− i support and support the positive trend from the last meeting of the council of the international civil aviation organisation (icao) as it offers a chance to reach a final agreement in september on the enforcement of the obligations of aircraft operators for flights to and from the eu under the emissions trading system (ets).
however, a decision to suspend the system is not, in my view, a good solution to ensure that 'global' decisions are taken to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from aviation.
although the emissions of these gases under the kyoto protocol have increased by around 100% since 1990, the reference year, the aviation industry is only obliged to reduce emissions by 5% by 2020, while other industries must reduce emissions by 21%.
− under the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc) and the kyoto protocol, the parties, including the then 15 ec member states, committed themselves to reducing greenhouse gas emissions into the air.
the legal framework of the scheme was established by directive 2003/87/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 13 october 2003 establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the community and amending council directive 96/61/ec.
the trading system was intended to enable the eu and its member states to meet their greenhouse gas emission reduction commitments by trading greenhouse gas emission allowances within the union in a cost-effective and economically efficient manner.
directive 2003/87/ec was transposed into polish law by the act of 22 december 2004 on greenhouse gas and other substances emissions trading.
for some time now, they have had to pay a carbon tax on their flights.
in times of crisis, can we afford to pay higher energy prices, higher air fares and higher living costs?
i think it's time to think about the future direction of the climate commission.
this activity is aimed at achieving sustainable economic growth for all partners and serves the transfer of technology, the improvement of professional skills, the development of different economic sectors and competitiveness.
- we all know that the least developed countries need the most aid to achieve sustainable growth and development.
the emerging economies' trading capacity is in itself a driving force for sustainable growth.
the visa waiver process for ukrainian citizens travelling to community countries should not be made dependent on the political climate of the two sides.
the bop revision spells out the guidelines which debt-sustainability analysis and the macroeconomic adjustment programme should follow, stresses the importance of realistic forecasts and enhances the transparency of this process by promoting an interinstitutional dialogue on financial assistance.
− 2011 was a challenging year, with the increase in inflation compared to 2010 mainly due to rising fuel and energy prices and, to a lesser extent, food and other commodity prices.
turkey's key role in providing alternative sources of energy to russia for europe's energy supply is also important.
it is of particular importance for climate stability, as well as for natural resources and everything related to the lives of the inuit, the indigenous people of the area.
i think any decision to make changes that would interfere with that environment should be very balanced.
last october, together with colleagues from 8 countries, my party solidarna polska and the efd group started collecting signatures for a european citizens' initiative called the 'stop package' to suspend the energy and climate package.
serbia should take the necessary steps in the current situation in the areas of comprehensive and modern legislative solutions, cross-border cooperation, social dialogue, implementation of structural reforms, environmental protection and job creation.
its government, budget, energy and every other area of life depends on outside help: eu or albanian.
i would like to begin by thanking mr reul for his report, which is so sensible in its attempt to deal with the confusion surrounding renewable energy sources.
today, each country has its own policy, its own support system, and in this way it distorts the competitiveness and the functioning of the internal energy market, which is a fundamental objective of the european union.
therefore, i think it is very important to create a single european project on renewable energy and to integrate it into the eu internal market.
unfortunately, this issue is blurred in the report, but the pan-european support is also an opportunity to strengthen the cost-effectiveness of renewable energy sources that we are talking about.
we cannot agree to waste our money on national projects where, for example, solar panels are installed in regions where there is no sun and wind turbines in regions where there is no wind.
the commissioner mentioned that investors need certainty, but there is a lot of uncertainty and confusion because the commission proposes far-reaching targets, but on the other hand, when it thinks there is confusion in the market, it backloads, it reduces the use of biofuels, which are a very important part of renewable energy in many countries.
i believe that the energy sources that are important in a given area should be used.
and i might say, by the way, that just as important as the need to build infrastructure, as the previous speaker has emphasised, is the need to build infrastructure, because often the green members of this parliament are opposed to gas and the building of gas infrastructure, and it is also necessary for the development of renewable energy.
i would like to say to the member for lange, who said that tomorrow is 2020, no, tomorrow is 21 may 2013. but i wouldn't throw out this present-day baby with a bathtub, and as a renewable energy enthusiast, i wouldn't want to do it at the expense of people working now, at this moment.
i want to emphasize the cost-effectiveness of renewable energy.
in discussing the reula report, all announcements of new targets for 2030 that are decisive for renewable energy should be treated with great caution, as they must be preceded by appropriate analyses and a review of the effectiveness of the current directive.
any reference to the energy roadmap 2050 should clearly indicate that it is only one of many documents presented during the discussion of the new energy and climate policy and cannot be the basis for further action and for the eu to make unilateral commitments without a global agreement in this area.
in the context of the discussion on res, it is also worth considering the potential directions of development of this energy sector.
the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
the need to increase the share of renewable energy sources is unquestionable.
however, it should be noted that, due to the nature of renewable energy sources, the increase in their share cannot take place without a parallel investment in energy infrastructure.
the development of transmission and distribution networks is necessary to ensure the smooth and uninterrupted flow of energy, both between member states and within member states.
i also believe that setting far-reaching binding energy targets is risky at the moment and requires further comprehensive analysis.
the european parliament's proposed resolution opens a discussion on the future policy framework for the development of renewable energy after 2020 and further promoting the integration of renewable energy in the eu's internal energy market.
currently, with the increasing share of wind and solar energy, which are highly volatile energy sources, renewable energy sources (res) only supplement the eu's energy balance and at the current level of development of these technologies, it is necessary to maintain reserve capacity based on conventional energy.
i believe that in the process of making renewable energy competitive, a strong emphasis should be placed on reducing its costs, rather than artificially raising the price of conventional energy through energy taxes or modification of the ets.
such actions by the european commission may lead to a deterioration in energy security in countries currently relying on fossil fuels.
the european commission should take into account the diverse potential of member states in the field of res and the development of energy infrastructure.
it is therefore necessary to prepare appropriate analyses of both the potential of res in individual countries and the impact of an increase in the share of res in the energy mix on their economies.
the 2030 renewable energy targets res share of 40-45% should be set after global agreement, while res support schemes should remain the responsibility of member states.
the european union is faced with the choice of an energy model that responds to the needs of a european economy operating in a globalised world.
renewable energy should be an integral part of this model, and we need to systematically increase its share to meet the real challenges of climate change.
however, a policy to promote renewable energy sources cannot be driven solely by a climate perspective, but must take into account a number of other dimensions.
first, investments in renewable energy must be subordinated to global investments in european competitiveness.
following the example of the us, the union should boldly pursue a deep transformation of its economy towards renewable or low-carbon sources based on the highest innovative technologies.
secondly, it is necessary to ensure that the use of renewable energy does not contribute to the increase in energy prices and thus to the deepening of the energy poverty of the population.
third, union policy should aim to strike a balance between all types of support to both small and large renewable energy producers, while appealing to the principles of global competitiveness, energy efficiency, promotion of local initiatives and equal opportunities.
only through such a comprehensive approach can the eu's energy policy have a chance to deliver added value.
until the czechs re-confirm their desire for this opt-out, it is a waste of all the institutions’ time and money to continue work merely for the sake of formality.
the determinants of energy policy have become very dynamic.
the diversification of sources of origin has increased significantly, new raw material areas have emerged and energy efficiency has increased significantly.
this creates new conditions for defining and reviewing the tasks and objectives for 2020 and beyond for 2030. we need to take into account the ongoing economic crisis and re-examine the assumptions of climate policy and the share of renewable energy.
a major problem for the eu, which makes it difficult to compete on the global market, is that energy prices are very high compared to other countries in the world.
today, energy prices in europe are twice as high as in the united states, and gas prices are four times as high.
it should be borne in mind that high energy prices mainly affect the poorest households.
we have what is called energy poverty.
in poorer member states, some households spend as much as 22% of their budgets on energy.
europe cannot therefore close the door on the opportunities offered by the non-conventional energy sources available on the continent.
it should be stressed that the debate on climate policy is not really about the environment, but about the competitiveness of economies.
without the extensive system of high tariffs for the polish economy, which are de facto introduced as part of the ambitious eu climate plans, electricity production in poland would be several times cheaper than energy production through technologies imposed on us by the european union (e.g.
wind turbines or nuclear energy).
if the eu succeeds in pushing through a restrictive climate policy, we will have to buy almost all of these technologies in the coming years for hundreds of billions of zlotys from international companies that do not pay taxes in poland.
currently, 90% of poland's energy is generated by coal combustion in technologies that protect against harmful dust and chemicals.
the adoption of the conclusions effectively represents the political agreement of the member states to the commission's initiative of the following new normative acts: structural amendment of the ets directive to increase the price of carbon dioxide emission allowances by withdrawing 2 billion allowances from the market new emission reduction targets.
this agreement shall specify the principles and mechanisms of such cooperation, while strengthening eurocontrol's role in the union's system of enforcement agendas, and focusing on safety and environmental issues.
the european union points out that the best solution would be to introduce a global aviation emissions trading system based on the principle of non-discrimination.
the single european sky project tripling airspace capacity, improving safety by a factor of ten, reducing the environmental impact of aviation by 10% and reducing air traffic management costs by 50%.
the key recommendations of the report include the development of effective policies in areas such as cohesion policy, economic governance and competitiveness, innovation, research, the digital agenda, sustainable development, the creative and cultural industries, new skills and jobs.
developing smart specialisation strategies is also important, and the success of regions depends on sustainable development strategies that are tailored to their needs.
− eu cohesion policy funding should complement national funding and contribute to the faster implementation of eu legislation on renewable energy and energy efficiency.
it is important to promote rational, long-term and cost-efficient strategies for energy and resources and a green economy.
local and regional authorities in industrial centres should seek to exploit the synergies between national and union public funding and private investment in energy and infrastructure projects to support innovation, research and development.
it was recognised that planned strategies should aim to protect and respect the environment and physical space, while at the same time being more efficient and environmentally sustainable.
certainly, actions to protect the environment in connection with the extraction and exploitation of natural resources such as gas and oil are important.
this is demonstrated by the various cases of major disasters which have had a very negative impact on the quality of the environment and, moreover, have subsequently entailed serious costs associated with restoring the environment to its previous state.
the european parliament passed a resolution in the previous term of office that was critical of the construction of this pipeline for environmental reasons, and then it was approved as if the resolution had never been passed.
there is no doubt that energy consumption needs to be gradually reduced and that energy production, transmission and use needs to be made more efficient.
renewables can certainly contribute to increasing europe's energy independence, improving climate conditions and also delivering a number of savings.
some have been investing in renewable energy for a long time, while others may be doing more harm than good at this point.
but it is worth taking a closer look at some of the indigenous energy sources, such as geothermal and shale gas.
however, in appreciating the value of energy from different sources, including renewable energy, many of those working on the report overlook the fact that renewable energy is twice as expensive as coal-fired energy.
it so happens that the whole world is basing its production on the cheapest energy and therefore competing with european industry.
if this energy costs much more, we should be able to allow countries to use it more flexibly, rather than rigidly, with very serious economic and social consequences.
often it is the 3 million new jobs that will be created by green energy, but to this we must add the other side namely 6 and perhaps 10 million jobs that europe will lose in the years ahead precisely because of this irrational, unwise policy that turns a blind eye to the much higher prices of renewable energy than traditional energy.
− renewable energy is one of the european union's main areas of interest, as it is of strategic importance for the development of the community as a whole and of individual countries.
there is no doubt that the supply of stable energy at competitive prices is crucial for the rapid development of the industry.
to prevent the negative effects of regulation on renewable energy in rural areas, the european union should define a clear and predictable framework that does not negatively impact food production and does not increase the cost of energy.
the situation of the internal energy market in the european union must change if the economies of the community countries are to remain competitive.
it is therefore necessary to introduce both a new perspective on renewable energy and projects currently under discussion such as iluc.
− regulation of renewable energy in the european energy market is undoubtedly important, but it also requires a lot of thought.
the question is not whether we should use renewable energy at all, but how quickly we can develop this form of energy, especially in times of crisis and with no clear prospects for getting out of it.
i voted against the first amendment, specifically against the provision that would suggest renewable energy at 40 to 45 percent by 2030. this objective seems unrealistic, especially in the polish economy.
- renewable energy has been and continues to be a source of great hope, but also of great controversy.
this does not mean that the production of such energy should not be financially supported.
the european commission estimates that investments in renewable energy can create an additional 3 million jobs.
but we have to ask ourselves, will more people lose their jobs as a result of the decline in competitiveness of the low-carbon economy?
energy production is a long-term investment, so we must set realistic targets, and i repeat: realistic targets!
the key will be the planned completion of the internal energy market by 2014. this would allow for more efficient deliveries and lead to lower prices.
the production potential of energy, in particular renewable energy, should take into account the local conditions of each country.
finally, i would like to say that in the context of renewable energy policy, it sounds strange to announce the decommissioning of 5-7% of agricultural land as part of the cap reform between 2014 and 2020, with the simultaneous intention of reducing the production of first generation biofuels.
the socialists demanded that 45% of the energy come from renewable energy sources (res), but this provision was rejected.
− i believe that renewable energy contributes to solving the climate change problem, increases europe's energy independence and brings additional environmental benefits reduces air pollution, waste generation and water consumption, and reduces the risks associated with other forms of energy production.
in addition, i believe it is appropriate to put in place a process of coordination at eu level to help member states to develop sustainable and secure pension systems.
according to the oecd's report on addressing the issue of tax base erosion and profit shifting, the most important policy issue to be addressed is that common international rules defined on the basis of national experience in the allocation of tax jurisdictions have not kept pace with the changing business environment.
that legal framework introduces a simplified regulatory environment for products and allows for a more consistent application of technical standards, which will help to improve the functioning of the single market by ensuring equal treatment of non-compliant products and economic operators, as well as equal assessment of notified bodies within the eu market, and reduce the number of non-compliant and dangerous products on the market.
the carpathian region needs immediate transport, infrastructure, environmental and support for local entrepreneurship.
− the modernisation of the existing eu customs code is of the utmost importance for the proper functioning and management of the electronic environment for customs and trade.
the country maintains macroeconomic stability, and extensive investment is being made in transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure.
a major achievement would be to improve transport on a sustainable basis, leading to a reduction in the cost of air travel.
unlocking the untapped potential of a truly integrated transatlantic market is essential for the eu and the us to maximise job creation and to stimulate lasting, strong and sustainable growth potential.
the commission was called upon to ensure strict compliance with all legal obligations, in particular international standards and regulations in the fields of human rights, labour law and environmental protection.
in the current economic climate and in the context of deficit reduction policies, social investment is also crucial.
it is also pleased that the report pays considerable attention to food and food waste issues.
the risks to consumer interests in the electronic environment are a very topical issue.
− maintaining fishing mortality rates at sustainable levels based on scientific advice should allow fish stocks to be rebuilt.
the new projects aim to reduce cod catches as well as discards while maintaining sustainable levels of catches of target species.
− although the cod recovery plan is mainly focused on the north sea and celtic sea, the sustainability of fisheries and the recovery of cod stocks is of great importance for poland and the other member states.
member states should give priority to a sustainable management plan (including the protection of stocks against overfishing) and to the development of tools to eliminate illegal fishing practices.
criminal organizations are increasingly active in such areas as public procurement, international transport, waste management, illegal trade in natural resources, and gambling and prostitution.
in addition, by designing energy-efficient, low-maintenance buildings using renewable energy sources such as solar or wind energy, member states will contribute to improving the environment and achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate action plan, including the implementation of the union's climate action plan, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate action plan.
the union cannot afford to waste their potential.
a sophisticated toll service for light private vehicles could be a tool to put a price tag on pollution, land use, accidents and noise.
the commission's proposal for a directive on annual accounts is the next step in the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy to create a sustainable and more business-friendly economy in the union.
they have a huge impact on the environment, reducing fish stocks and destroying habitats.
i believe that creating conditions for social entrepreneurship increases the chances of creating new, sustainable jobs and is an important element in preventing poverty and social exclusion.
the objectives of the single energy market are still not fully achieved.
by promoting efficiency, it contributes to smart and sustainable economic growth across the european union.
the inclusion of other atlantic countries can have very positive consequences for the promotion of democratic ideals, the fight against climate change and maritime security.
in the past, preferential access to the european market has not translated into sustainable growth or sufficient integration of the acp group of countries into the world economy.
the report recognises that there should be a single, comprehensive and integrated framework with clear benchmarks covering key issues related to sustainable development.
the global goals post-2015 should also include what will be a continuation of the millennium development goals and the sustainable development goals.
the development goals and the sustainable development goals, on a global scale would be a mistake.
in this parliament we agree that the eradication of poverty, which is the main and treaty objective of eu development cooperation, and the achievement of sustainable social and environmental development should become mandatory priorities on the global agenda.
and i'm also convinced that without good governance, we're not going to be able to achieve our primary goal of ending poverty on a sustainable basis, and the positive examples that we've seen around the world have mostly been in countries that have been very good governance.
i'm going to mention them because they address the needs that we've seen in this room: poverty eradication, achieving gender equality, providing quality education, ensuring healthy lives, food security and good nutrition, sustainable energy, job creation, growth for all, sustainable management of resources and raw materials, good governance and effective institutions, stable and peaceful communities, global and long-term financing.
the countries of the region are important exporters of a wide range of essential raw materials, including energy.
the report also highlights the need to jointly tackle threats to global security, including cybercrime, piracy, trafficking in human beings, arms and drugs, and the moral imperative to commit to tackling climate change.
in a globalised world, therefore, the eu and the us should play a key role in shaping the international environment and jointly resolving regional conflicts and tackling global problems.
with that being said, it is important to “take into account the lessons learned from the current mdgs and, at the same time, consider that the global landscape has dramatically changed over the last decade: poverty is taking on new dimensions, differences between developing countries have increased, several countries have become donors, while others, facing high levels of inequality, continue to be highly vulnerable to crisis shocks (climate change, food crises, demographic changes, refugees, etc.).
the nabucco pipeline, which is under construction, if it is built, will play a vital role in improving the energy security of the european union.
azerbaijan plays an important role in the region, it is also an important economic partner of the european union and hopefully it will become more important, especially in terms of diversifying the supply of energy resources.
the first example from the shore: we have guaranteed the principle of european energy solidarity in the lisbon treaty.
meanwhile, the largest country in the european union, germany, has broken the principle of energy solidarity by driving the nordstream gas pipeline from russia to the bottom of the baltic sea, paying three times the price.
i believe that the adoption of legal instruments without these types of vehicles will not bring about a significant improvement in safety and environmental protection throughout the union.
i would like to draw attention to the difficult situation of the energy-intensive industry in poland.
the current high energy prices and the real threat of higher energy prices will lead to the bankruptcy of many factories, increase already very high unemployment and cause a drastic increase in the cost of living.
in this plant, energy costs in some departments exceed 50% of production costs.
therefore, any climate policy action cannot be separated from the different economic and social realities of the individual countries of the european union.
in this situation, a renewed attempt to push backloading and the consequent drastic increase in energy prices will further weaken the competitiveness of energy-intensive industrial sectors.
it is an initiative of the european commission which aims to raise the price of greenhouse gas emission allowances by artificial administrative methods.
but what is nonetheless important, and perhaps even paramount in this case, is the fact that unfortunately the case will have far-reaching repercussions in terms of the situation of households and the european economy, because this initiative will inevitably lead to an increase in energy prices, which will be reflected on the accounts of both ordinary european consumers and those who are engaged in production.
and another thing: it's striking that economies that compete with us, like the united states or the far east, have much lower energy prices, even half as much, and these changes will cause energy prices to rise and will further reduce the competitiveness of the european economy.
the ever-growing world population, the rapidly increasing demand for food and energy, and the scarcity of the world's natural resources all require new systemic solutions.
one of them is certainly the bioeconomy, which, by promoting sustainability, can contribute to rural development, sustainable and smart growth, food security and employment.
to achieve the desired results, the harmonization of agricultural, industrial and environmental policies, combined with research and innovation, should be pursued.
an efficient bioeconomy is a highly effective tool for creating sustainable growth and increasing social activities while reducing environmental impact.
this is followed by the use of mineral resources, demographic changes, and environmental devastation.
to ensure that future generations can continue to enjoy the wonders of nature, action must be taken to balance development and ecological processes.
the institution is active in the fields of scientific research, environmental protection, education, sport and culture.
their activities play a significant role in sectors such as scientific research, culture and the environment.
it aims to improve workers’ rights, ship safety, security and environmental protection.
− the new rules on roadworthiness testing are designed to further improve road safety and ensure a high level of environmental protection.
− the three proposals in the roadworthiness package present new technical inspection rules to improve road safety while ensuring a high level of environmental protection.
they not only create congestion, pollution and accidents but they also damage road infrastructure.
therefore, i voted in favour of this regulation which enhances road safety and ensures a high level of environmental protection.
- i voted in favour of the report by mr richard seeber today because i believe that the european union must strengthen its measures to control chemical pollution of waters.
however, we must not forget that the efforts of governments and ngos (which play a huge role in raising public awareness of the harmful effects of chemicals on aquatic ecosystems) will not be enough if we do not respect and care for the environment ourselves.
the promotion of sustainable maritime development, maritime transport and tourism is a crucial element in the reconstruction of the european economy.
in offshore wind energy, submarine cables and pipelines, maritime transport, fisheries and aquaculture, but insufficient coordination can lead to competition for space and put pressure on valuable resources.
as part of the minimum requirements of the proposed directive, member states will have to ensure that their maritime spatial planning and coastal zone management promote sustainable growth, while involving relevant stakeholders and cooperating with neighbouring countries.
democratic governance, common equity and budgetary control make this form of economic activity sustainable and efficient.
the proposals in the report are clearly conducive to achieving smart and sustainable development in the european union, which will help to strengthen the community's position as a world leader in the bioeconomy.
they will lead to more efficient mechanisms for sustainable growth and will contribute to the proposed bioeconomy.
europe will soon face new realities that will seriously challenge our ways of living and working, including the growing world population, increased demand for food and energy, and the scarcity of resources.
this report, which paves the way for a more innovative, resource-efficient, competitive and, above all, food security and sustainable development society, must be supported.
- explanation of vote: report on innovation for sustainable growth: the bioeconomy for europe.
in europe, despite its low population density, the number of citizens is increasing, which may lead to food and energy shortages.
new ways of developing the economy are therefore needed to ensure that production is not increased at the expense of the environment and quality, and that healthy, organic food is widely available.
with european support, it will be possible to develop organic production, a market for healthy food using renewable energy.
energy security is one of the most important challenges facing the developing union.
as an energy importer, poland must develop new forms of production to become independent from its neighbours.
− with the world's population continuing to grow, europe has decided to change the course of its economy towards more sustainable use of renewable resources.
such activities will enable us to have a more innovative and low-carbon economy and reconcile the need for sustainable agriculture and fisheries, food security and the sustainable exploitation of renewable biological resources for industry, while protecting biodiversity and the environment, and that is why i am in favour of this.
big business hates you for having to rebuild the country after the socialist government taxed energy companies, hypermarkets, banks, foreign capital.
europe is regularly hit by severe flooding; climate change only makes this situation worse.
as of this year, we have in place a framework for adapting to climate change.
i am also pleased that the presidency is tackling the issue of transeuropean energy and transport networks.
strategically located, lithuania seems to understand the importance of connecting the continent through new transport corridors and unifying the energy transmission market for european integration.
but the energy issue could be an even more important sign in a long-term perspective of your presidency.
two points are of crucial importance i encourage myself to give you advice as i am the rapporteur for the internal energy market in this parliament.
stop energy islands in the european union.
let us build a true european energy community.
to restore growth and work on sustainable jobs is our common top priority.
i am absolutely convinced that your presidency will show the same energy and efficiency.
i wish you success both in the eastern partnership area and in the common energy policy.
secure access to energy at the lowest possible cost is the key to the future and competitiveness of the eu economy and to new jobs.
president, madam president, i heard with great pleasure that one of your official priorities of the lithuanian presidency is to furthering the better coordination in the external dimension of eu energy policy.
as was underlined at the european council in may, the external dimension of energy policy must be reviewed and expanded and strengthen.
we must especially ensure a level playing-field vis-à-vis third country energy producers and our energy contracts.
this is especially important in light of the next european council meeting dedicated to energy in december and any possible reform of the treaties in 2014 and beyond.
once again, i congratulate you on making energy one of your priorities.
lithuania's priorities for the eu presidency are primarily the eastern partnership, strengthening the position and activation of the baltic sea countries, strengthening the external borders of the european union, and ensuring energy security.
energy policy and energy security for lithuania the most energy dependent country in the european union is a priority.
in the coming months, the presidency will focus on the creation of a common energy market.
the european council also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
all of this is the result of high energy prices.
today, the price of energy, for example in huta częstochowa, is 50% of the total production price.
unfortunately, the increase in energy prices that this decision will cause will contribute to an even greater weakening of the european economy and to even greater redundancies.
− the report on the timetable for auctioning greenhouse gas emission allowances was again on the agenda.
i say, in the name of the climate dogma, which unjustifiably links climate change to anthropogenic co2 emissions.
the ets is intended to provide a sort of 'leave' for a new 'climate religion'.
− this is one of the most controversial reports, as it deals with a key issue for countries whose energy system is based on hard coal.
from my point of view, this is a drive to artificially inflate the price of emissions trading.
i understand the genesis: the root cause of the problem is the reckless political agreement of the state authorities in 2007, and then the situation worsened in 2008, accepting these 6 instruments, among them the emissions trading.
the european commission's proposal on backloading is a dangerous precedent for the development of a community approach to energy security.
- i voted against matthias groote's report on the one-off intervention in the carbon market.
the emissions trading scheme was designed to gradually reduce carbon emissions by 2020. a sudden reduction in emission allowances will hit those countries that, despite the process of switching to so-called green energy, still rely on coal for their energy.
− once again we voted in favour of changes to the functioning of the european emissions trading system.
this fact alone proves that this is a matter of enormous importance, both for the european economy and for efforts to protect the environment and adapt to climate change.
since the kyoto protocol was implemented, the european union has made significant progress in reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
the ets has introduced emissions limits that are disproportionate to those imposed on their industrial sectors by other major emitters: china, the us and india.
the ets is a model for the functioning of the emissions trading scheme.
however, this is an imperfect mechanism which allows us to be satisfied with a superficial reduction in emissions on the one hand, but on the other hand it is not a solution that treats all emitters equally, both geographically and sectorally.
moreover, the new countries of central and eastern europe, whose economies are still based on fossil fuels through no fault of their own, bear a disproportionate burden of reducing emissions compared to western european economies.
the future solution in this area would probably be to introduce a universal emission tax, applicable to both energy and industry as well as transport.
− my abstention is a signal that both i and my europa plus group support a progressive energy policy based on the long-term interests of society.
instead of blocking eu climate policy indefinitely, poland should consider how it can benefit from its implementation.
the introduction of backloading will raise energy prices in the eu, raise production costs and reduce the competitiveness of european industry in the context of the ongoing economic downturn.
it should be noted, however, that today's decision is not final and does not presuppose that energy prices in europe will automatically increase.
it is therefore necessary to extend the means of assessing biological, chemical and environmental hazards.
this is all the more so as the risk of flooding due to climate change, which is resulting in rising sea and ocean levels, is expected to increase in the coming decades.
− global climate change is often cited as the main cause of the increase in the frequency and size of floods.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european strategy for the environment, based on the commission's communication of 25 june 2013 entitled 'towards a sustainable and sustainable energy future - the eu's energy strategy for the 21st century'.
finally, as regards the issue of enhancing fair and sustainable competition, which is a problem today, we can safely say that it is essential to maintain a healthy banking sector and also allows the financing of the real economy through universal access to banking services.
changes are therefore necessary to reduce transaction errors and the risk of waste of funds.
i see the digital single market as an opportunity to reduce red tape, to internationalise smes, to improve the legal and administrative environment in which they operate.
the digital single market offers an opportunity to reduce red tape, to internationalise smes and to improve the legal environment in which they operate.
the review of the renewable energy directive and the fuel quality directive should ensure, in the view of the committee on development, that firstly, the eu's biofuels policy does not undermine food security, but fully respects the human right to food, and secondly, does not deprive people in difficulty of their livelihoods by depriving them of land use rights or otherwise.
once again, we are witnessing a significant divergence of opinion within the environment and industry committee responsible for the subject of our debate.
the main objective is to determine the level of the share of energy from renewable sources, including biofuels, in the transport sector by 2020. the eu's renewable energy directive, which set a target of 10% renewable energy less than four years ago, has been a catalyst for the development of the biofuel industry in europe.
the production of biofuels has developed very rapidly in our polish environment, which has allowed the development of large agricultural areas and has contributed to the diversification of energy sources.
the european parliament has recently taken up the issue of withdrawing its previous positions on the limitation of co2 emissions permits.
the amendments proposed to the plenary session effectively limit the share of conventional biofuels to 7,25% by introducing a 2% target for advanced biofuels and 0,75% which could be achieved by using advanced biofuels or renewable energy in electric transport or using hydrogen in transport.
both the discussion so far and the analyses presented by the european commission indicate that there are very large discrepancies in the assessment of emissions caused by iluc factors, which makes this mechanism extremely controversial and unclear.
decisions to develop the biofuels sector in the european union were intended to help reduce co2 emissions, ensure diversification of energy sources and help farmers by providing them with a steady source of income and the possibility of replacing imported high-protein feed.
the reduction of the threshold for the use of conventional biofuels by half in order to meet the 10% target for the share of energy from renewable sources in transport by 2020 will require a change in the production process and a reduction in the expected production.
the main thrust of the original biofuels regulation was to achieve synergies between two objectives: protecting the environment by using biomass for energy production and promoting innovation and entrepreneurship.
this is all the more so as the waste generated in the production of such biofuels can then be successfully used as a valuable native component of protein feed.
this solution not only helps to exploit europe's ecosystem potential in this area, but also primarily drives innovation and entrepreneurship, especially in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mr buzek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the completion of the internal energy market (com (2012) 0663 - 2013/2005 (ini)) (a7-0262/2013) and the question for oral answer by mrs sartori, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on micro-generation (o-000074/2013) (b7-0217/2013).
if we want to get out of the crisis, we have to be competitive, and the competitiveness of the economy depends very much on energy prices.
the common market offers opportunities for producers and suppliers of energy to compete and thus to lower prices.
at the same time, we must remember that our citizens are waiting for the opportunity to reduce energy prices.
finally, this common market also allows us to maintain a stronger position in energy price negotiations with external suppliers.
the report also stresses that member states will use all the energy sources available on their territory, such as hard coal and brown coal, which are present almost everywhere in europe, using the latest low-carbon technologies.
finally, the third benefit is the more optimal use of renewable energy, as well as the implementation of all regulations on energy saving, energy efficiency.
we need to gradually harmonise the ways in which renewable energy is supported and the scope of support for renewable energy if we are to trade renewable energy in the common market.
they need to be able to choose a manufacturer, an energy supplier, they need to understand the bills.
and of course, as a fifth point, we need to implement eu legislation as soon as possible, especially the third energy package and energy efficiency solutions.
finally, i would like to remind you that since may 2010 we have been implementing the idea that i put forward with jacques delors, which is called the 'european energy community'.
i think the citizens are waiting for some kind of energy supply, possibly cheap energy.
secondly, we want the rules of the third energy package to be applied strictly, particularly to foreign investors.
this is the biggest factor in changing the energy market and our silence on this subject is making us, parliament, look ridiculous.
we as conservatives are totally opposed to the idea of taxing energy consumption in article 27. the next charge from consumers is the worst possible signal we can send to consumers and industry.
they are already paying enough for europe's experimentation in energy policy.
i agree with him completely that there could be dangers, from some points of view, in the creation of an internal energy market.
regarding the free trade agreement with the united states, this is possible only if we can achieve competitive and affordable energy prices.
this should be stopped but of course step by step, so as to take into account vulnerable energy consumers.
we could also check our energy market in central europe, in the scandinavian countries and in regional markets.
lastly, i would like to declare my full support for the european commission, and for commissioner oettinger, in the implementation all the rules in the internal energy market.
is the launching of the energy market in the union for the purpose of harmonising prices and increasing competitiveness, or is it solely for the purpose of ensuring energy security for the citizens of the member states?
the creation of a proper european energy market, not just for citizens but also for industry, is a matter for the future, especially as the eu's energy policy is heavily influenced by post-industrial fiction and climate doctrine.
i think that the current and fundamental objective of this policy should be to create interconnections between the individual national energy systems, that is, to build energy security for citizens.
the question that needs to be answered is whether energy policy in the common market makes sense in isolation from industrial policy and, consequently, whether the current economic misery of the union could not be overcome by a better customs policy for energy fuels.
the root cause of mass unemployment in the union and destructive industrial relocation is linked to the wto-imposed free trade principle, which in practice promotes unfair competition and social and environmental dumping, and this also affects the shape of the energy sector.
i note that the main objective of the internal energy market - i.e.
energy security for my country, poland, but also for several other member states - requires support for coal mining and coal-fired power.
in launching the internal energy market, we must not only be concerned with security but also with the re-establishment of the competitiveness of our part of europe on the global market.
the european commission has calculated that since 2005, energy prices in the european union have increased by 37%, while in the us they have fallen by 5% in the same period.
completing the energy common market and implementing the third energy package is needed to ensure security of supply, to better negotiate with external partners, and to bring down prices and make more efficient use of environmentally friendly energy sources.
the report by president buzek stresses the need to develop own resources and to exploit the full potential of unconventional energy sources, which will help protect our consumers and businesses and increase competitiveness on the global market.
the european commission has reviewed the actions already taken and those needed in the near future to achieve the european council's objective of completing the internal energy market by 2014 and eliminating energy islands by 2015 by developing the necessary energy infrastructure in the eu.
the report by jerzy buzek continues the path towards ensuring the supply of energy from local sources.
the key to the creation of a common market is to focus on cross-border interconnections, the need to modernise and develop energy infrastructure between member states and national energy networks, the consistent application of the internal energy market rules, including the third energy package, to eu and third-country operators operating on the eu market, and the inclusion in future actions of the solution to the problem of disruption of electricity networks caused by unplanned flows of energy from renewable sources.
the strong support expressed at the eu summit on 22 may, where member states confirmed their readiness to create a common energy market by the end of 2014, leaves us with a lot of work to do in terms of implementing previously adopted rules and arrangements, but also new investments.
i thank the rapporteur for his report on the crucial issue of the completion of the internal energy market.
i am glad that we are supporting activities which do not go against the trend of using only renewable energy sources.
we are thinking of the interests of individual member states, which could decide for themselves how to produce and process energy and use their own energy resources, such as natural resources, to increase the eu's competitiveness on the world market.
i support projects that are also crucial for poland, and do not exclude energy produced from coal.
competitive supply and lower energy costs, taking into account the decline in wholesale energy prices, are key issues.
it is therefore important to take account of the regulation of energy prices on the market.
- the report we debate tonight assesses the current results of cohesion policy measures targeted at energy efficiency.
energy efficiency is an increasingly important part of the cohesion policy, especially in the forthcoming programming period.
however, in the current period, the effectiveness of energy efficiency projects under cohesion policy has been minimum and we should consider how to avoid such failure in the future.
these recommendations will hopefully bring some clarity to how improve the compatibility of intertwined european, national and regional cohesion policy objectives with the energy efficiency goal.
- i voted in favour of the report on supporting a european transport technology strategy for future sustainable mobility in europe.
– a european transport-technology strategy should promote quality of service, the convenience of passengers and businesses, and sustainable mobility, and should be based on the union’s targets and legislation regarding the reduction of energy consumption, traffic noise, air pollutants, raw materials and greenhouse gas emissions, as well as improving health and quality of life, increasingly customised solutions and enhancing safety and security.
we therefore need to ensure its sustainable development, and because it is global, effective action requires close international cooperation.
a well-functioning internal energy market can be a win-win for consumers and industry.
it covers the development of trans-european energy networks, with a view to removing barriers and implementing smart infrastructure.
it is important that such a mechanism works effectively, contributing to energy competitiveness and enhancing the potential of the community as a whole.
the rules on the internal energy market should further strengthen the union's position vis-à-vis third countries, in particular with regard to powerhouses such as russia.
the exploitation of the raw material deposits of certain member states is also of vital importance for the european energy market.
i am pleased that the report by mr buzek on the completion of the internal energy market has been adopted by parliament.
as the report rightly points out, the completion of the internal energy market is essential not only for the union's global competitiveness, growth and job creation, but also for europe's overall energy security.
the report also highlights the importance of regional energy projects.
the adoption of today's report underlines the importance of energy investments within the union and their importance for the energy security of the member states.
- i support the report by mr buzek on the completion of the internal energy market.
the creation of a common energy market will be based largely on the rational exploitation of energy resources, which will enable consumers to pay less for energy and make the european union's economy more competitive.
as the energy market is constantly changing, the european union must engage in new technologies such as smart grids, energy storage and clean coal technologies.
i believe that the creation of an internal energy market would have a positive impact on the quality of life of the citizens of the european union and would provide better conditions for both producers and final consumers of energy, and that new energy technologies would contribute to improving the environment.
− the launch of the internal energy market is a step both towards europe's energy security and towards the integration of the continent.
this is also important from an economic point of view, because cheaper energy is an opportunity to generate economic growth and new jobs.
a good sign is the concern for consumers and their commitment to local alternative energy sources.
if you take an energy map of europe and look at it in detail, you will see an interesting fact.
for energy at least, the berlin wall did not fall in 1989. here east and west europe still exist: west europe with dense energy networks, east europe where all major pipelines go one way.
mr buzekʼs report is clear: only the completion of the internal energy market can truly unite europe.
a fully connected europe, based on solidarity, is vital not only to our economy, but also to our energy security and social welfare.
to build a single physical european energy infrastructure that will remove the barriers left by a divided history.
for political will: we need a new european energy community as the report says.
- i voted in favour of this report, which i consider important because of the impetus it gives to the internal energy market, a crucial instrument for meeting the challenges of an increasingly expanding market which has until now been dominated by certain non-european competitors.
it is important to harness the leverage of renewable energy, and to make the internal energy market effective by 2014, as planned.
- energy and transmission networks, including cross-border ones, are one of the keys to economic success.
the rapporteur drew attention to the fact that the launch of the internal energy market would bring many benefits, including, in particular, increased security of energy supply, lower energy costs for consumers and industry, and help to build a more sustainable economy.
the report devotes a great deal of attention to renewable energy sources and energy efficiency.
these issues are important not only from the point of view of environmental protection but also from the point of view of the need for diversification of energy sources and the aforementioned security of energy supply.
however, it should be borne in mind that consumers should be at the centre of energy policy and that the most vulnerable should be protected so that they can all have access to the energy they need to function normally.
the original draft of this report went far beyond regional policy to address climate change objectives.
the significant and constantly growing demand for energy in the european union requires precise measures to be taken to efficiently manage its own energy resources.
the commission is proposing to increase the cohesion policy allocation for climate issues.
this is certainly important, but equally important are investments, also at regional level, in the exploitation of existing energy sources such as shale gas.
– i voted for the establishment of a new eu strategy on fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic-ionian sea basin, with a view to giving a major boost to the development of sustainable economic activities which will have a beneficial effect on coastal communities and adjacent inland areas.
the increase in jobs depends on the overall state of the economy and an environment that is friendly to entrepreneurs, because they are the ones who create jobs.
in view of the ever-decreasing stock of european eel, the protection of eels and the promotion of their reproductive succession is a very important element for the sustainability of the fisheries sector.
i therefore appeal to you, mr president barroso, and to the lithuanian presidency, represented here by the foreign minister, not to waste the opportunity of the eastern partnership summit in vilnius to sign and immediately, even provisionally, implement an association agreement with ukraine and to start a similar process with the other eastern partnership countries.
this was of course influenced by lower labour costs and lower energy prices, but it was also supported by the active attitude of local authorities at all levels.
we should therefore focus on creating conditions for those who will in turn create sustainable jobs.
the actions presented in the report are to focus on, inter alia, funding language protection programmes, combating discrimination on the grounds of language and ethnic minority, promoting multilingualism and ensuring language sustainability by encouraging children to learn an endangered language as their mother tongue.
− i voted in favour of this report which seeks to correct an anomaly by which parliament does not possess the formal legal right to require candidates for the post of european environmental agency (eea) executive director to attend a hearing before the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the document would essentially limit the share of agricultural bio-based components from 10% to 6%, with the remaining 4% to be made up of 2,5% advanced biofuels and 1,5% biofuels from other renewable sources.
- the european parliament adopted a controversial climate and energy package in the previous term, but life has shown that we were wrong.
first generation biofuels - bioethanol added to petrol, biodiesel (methyl ester) - which were supposed to replace at least 10% of the energy contained in fuels, have been shown to increase total co2 emissions.
i don't think we can replace 10% of traditional fuels by 2020 and achieve a 6% reduction in co2 emissions.
this is because the production of bioethanol does not take into account the co2 emissions during fermentation and the agricultural by-products, and the fact that dehydrated spirits contain less energy than petrol and need to be used twice as much, which leads to an increase in the fuel consumption of petrol engines, which means an increase in co2 emissions.
methyl bio-esters, on the other hand, also contain about 20% less energy than regular petroleum.
to get the right engine power, we'll increase fuel consumption and co2 and particulate matter emissions.
i do this because i hope that the other elements of the climate and energy package will also be changed accordingly.
the target for biofuels in final energy consumption in transport was set five years ago.
it cannot be changed when the entrepreneurs, on the basis of the law adopted, are in the process of implementing investments, including many co-financed by union funds, including those that were conditional on the sustainability of the project.
second generation biofuels, from organic plants or waste, are not yet produced on an industrial scale and therefore cannot be an alternative to first generation biofuels in the near future.
− i thank the rapporteur for the proposals on the quality of petrol and diesel and the promotion of renewable energy.
in view of the eu's policy to promote renewable energy sources, it is gratifying to see that the biofuels industry is also having not only positive but also negative effects, for example on the food industry.
as an opponent of co2 caps, i believe that sustainable action should be taken and that the good and interests of all member states should be taken into account.
the factors contributing to such a drastic decline include overfishing, climate change, significant pollution of water, and the construction of new dams and dikes that prevent eels from migrating freely.
the adopted report by the committee on the environment, approved unanimously in the committee, strictly limits the delegation of powers, ensuring that annexes relating to descriptions, definitions or names of products are considered as essential elements and can only be changed by way of the ordinary legislative procedure.
on the contrary, i believe that only profound changes in education systems and the rules for setting up and running businesses can bring about lasting change and lead to the creation of new, sustainable jobs.
as we know, this is due to a number of factors, not only the economic situation of individual countries, but also adverse economic conditions, an unfavourable environment for the creation of new businesses, too high labour costs and often the gap between employers' expectations and the needs of the labour market and the education of young people.
the key is to adapt to the ever-changing environment.
it is therefore gratifying to see that action is being taken to improve the social dimension of the legislative environment.
easier market access for smes and self-employed people also provides an opportunity to create stable jobs, foster innovation or improve competitiveness, thus contributing to a sustainable market economy.
the current shape of the agreement covers issues such as: broadening the scope of joint action in the fields of environment, technology, climate change and maritime safety.
the current economic and financial environment does not favour member states’ efforts in the defence domain.
these include, for example, our technical dialogues on economic and financial issues and also the environment.
we hope that the eastern partnership summit in vilnius will provide such an opportunity, and that is why, as the epp, we will support the proposal negotiated and proposed by mr paleckis, believing that this time the belarusian authorities will not waste the opportunity that the european parliament and the european union are giving, are creating on the occasion of the eastern partnership summit in vilnius.
fourthly, we should help the countries under pressure by delivering energy, opening our market to their goods and building infrastructure.
the report also considers potential threats at sea, including terrorism, international crime, piracy and environmental degradation, and develops actions to prevent them.
the document also draws attention to the aspects of economic and energy cooperation, dialogue with civil society and cooperation in border management.
but when it comes to europe and the ets, as you know, the commission already in the summer of 2012 undertook steps to correct the shortcomings of the eu emissions trading scheme and strengthen it, based on a two-step approach.
on the one hand we should in the short term slow down the increase of supply/demand imbalances by backloading part of the auction supply and, on the other hand, we should identify structural measures to enable the eu ets to address the imbalances in a sustainable manner.
this was done through the carbon market report that should have come out only this year, but we brought it forward and sent it out in november last year with six structural options included.
in order for the eu ets to reduce emissions in a cost-effective manner beyond 2020, the ongoing work on the 2030 climate and energy framework obviously is also central.
in relation to the part of the question on promoting linking, the commission very much supports global cooperation on climate change, including on trading systems as well as other means of carbon pricing.
as a first example, the eu and switzerland will envisage a full link to start on 1 january 2015. linking different emissions trading systems, however, is challenging, as significant differences in the design of such systems exist, for example on the acceptance of international credits.
of course i regret that parliament did not adopt a motion for a resolution on the report on the state of the european carbon market in 2012. for the reform to work, we will need to work together so that we can find constructive solutions, but i also heard from mr florenz that there is still a will to try to do this.
given the many controversies, the european greenhouse gas emissions trading system certainly needs to be discussed.
i regard the rejection of the proposal to tighten climate policy by parliament in the april plenary vote as the right move.
unfortunately, in july, a majority of meps voted in favour of intervention on the emissions market to suspend the auctioning of 900 million allowances.
restrictions on the emissions trading system constitute a rare interference with the free market.
backloading also means increased costs for all energy-intensive industries and coal-fired power plants.
in the parliamentary committee on the environment, public health and food safety on 18 september, we rejected by a majority the draft resolution on co2 emission allowances.
the draft permanent reduction of allowances in the emissions trading scheme was therefore not accepted.
once again, i am firmly opposed to any administrative interference with the emissions trading system, which was supposed to operate on the basis of free market principles.
it should also be stressed that any efforts to tackle climate change will be ineffective without a global agreement on the issue.
that's why the climate summit is so important.
the mass flight of our emissions out of europe is also dangerous, and we are therefore seeing an industrial withdrawal from europe.
i fully support the changes to the european emissions trading system after 2020. however, i believe that we cannot change it before we have decided on the eu's 2030 climate and energy targets.
the impact of the emissions trading system on the functioning of the european market will be very different depending on whether the union decides on targets 25, 30 or 40, and as we see different countries are now putting forward different proposals.
the impact will also be different if we decide on a single co2 target or if we decide on several targets, including renewable energy and energy efficiency.
the shape and direction of the eu's environmental policy, particularly in the energy sector, has so far had little impact on global climate policy.
environmental protection yes, but the economy and the protection of jobs are also important.
in a break with previous agreements, the european commission is proposing further changes to regulations on biofuels, the emissions trading system, and co2 reduction.
first, it was to simplify and second, to shorten the procedures involved in the environmental assessment.
the obligation on investors to refer to concepts such as biodiversity or a baseline scenario is not only disproportionate, but also not legally defined, bringing huge potential for legal uncertainty.
the tightening of administrative sanctions for the exploration of oil and gas from unconventional sources gives the impression of deliberate, politically motivated discrimination against a chosen technology a technology that has been present in europe for years and is subject to environmental assessment under the current regulations.
parliament is trying to create a bureaucratic nightmare for more than just the energy industry.
i can't think of a more vivid example... (the president cut off the speaker)
legal certainty, process efficiency and procedural abbreviation are the basis for effective environmental protection.
they also enable investment in energy and innovation, contributing to the european union's energy security and climate protection.
the introduction of an additional, unjustified distinction between conventional and unconventional wells is directly aimed at the development of this sector, which the european union cannot afford to do in the face of rising energy prices for industry and end users.
one of the errors is the provision that requires an environmental impact assessment to be carried out for the exploration phase of unconventional hydrocarbons.
it is difficult to understand the intentions of the rapporteur, since no studies have been published to date confirming the negative environmental impact of exploration for unconventional hydrocarbons.
it is also unjustified to distinguish coalbed methane from other fossil fuels and to require its extraction to be subject to an environmental impact assessment.
could europe, which is setting itself increasingly ambitious climate targets, not take a cue from the us?
this country, which has been exploring shale gas on a large scale for a long time, is becoming a real winner not only in terms of access to cheap fuel, but also in terms of reducing emissions fairly easily.
the same should apply to those member states whose economies are based on high-carbon technologies and which have large shale gas reserves, which are much less polluting.
mandatory environmental impact assessment of all stages of activities related to unconventional hydrocarbon deposits is decidedly far-reaching and unauthorised.
european experience to date and environmental studies carried out in the member states most advanced in the work on unconventional hydrocarbon deposits show that exploration and production activities in compliance with current legislation and best practices are carried out in an environmentally safe manner.
i believe that the european commission's new initiative on environmental impact assessment should include a comprehensive and balanced set of rules for industry in europe that will clearly facilitate the development of this industry rather than hamper it.
it aptly describes the world in rapid transition undergoing fundamental changes in power, demography, climate, urbanisation and technology, and the need for policymakers to invest greater efforts in monitoring these global trends.
the agreement thus reached would allow these areas to be developed in a sustainable way, both environmentally and economically.
these measures should be aimed at building a society based on the principle of gender equality, where educational materials would strengthen women's chances of living in an environment that respects gender equality and where stereotypical perceptions of the roles of women and men would appear as an archaic and unnecessary concept.
the commission's proposal aligns the existing legal regime with safety and environmental requirements, including noise and exhaust emissions.
- the directive in question concerns issues related to shale gas extraction, which remains a strategic energy objective for my country.
these solutions are a threat to the eu economy, contrary to the energy security strategy and to europe's competitiveness.
above all, they are contrary to the interests of citizens, depriving households of the possibility of significantly reducing the cost of energy.
the obligation to carry out a full environmental impact assessment of shale projects at the exploration stage is, in my view, highly detrimental.
− i consider it extremely important to monitor the environmental impact of investments in the oil and gas sector from unconventional deposits and to subject them to strict procedures at the extraction stage.
however, the current shape of the draft amendment to the directive on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment raises a number of concerns, including the obligation for investors to carry out a full environmental impact assessment of shale gas exploration projects using hydraulic fracturing.
the amendments voted in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, especially nos 31 and 79, seem to be an attempt to curb the growth of this industry under the pretext of environmental protection!
the commission has also proposed that the environmental impact assessment procedure be extended to include the assessment of the environmental impact of the site.
the introduction of disproportionate administrative and financial burdens on the oil and gas sector from unconventional deposits will have disastrous consequences for the european and polish economies and will render many energy investments unprofitable.
the european parliament voted by a small margin on a proposal for, inter alia, a full environmental impact assessment of shale gas exploration by hydraulic fracturing.
studies have shown that shale gas is safe, and well-run hydraulic fracturing does not harm the environment.
in future, a full environmental impact assessment is to be mandatory for all projects related to the extraction and exploration of unconventional hydrocarbons (shale gas and oil, coalbed methane, etc.
the environmental impact assessment (eia) directive covers a wide range of projects, both public and private.
i am in favour of environmental protection and sustainable development, but i cannot accept that the same criteria apply to exploration and research as to the regular exploitation of the resource.
− a report on the assessment of the environmental impact of certain public and private projects is important and necessary.
it should be stressed that these provisions were not the intention of the european commission and are not justified by environmental considerations, and moreover, they concern only parts of the member states.
the exploration of alternative hydrocarbons can be a chance to reduce co2 emissions and support the economy.
the amendment to the environmental impact assessment directive proposed by the european commission was designed to simplify and streamline the directive.
the commission's original proposal was designed to reduce red tape and improve environmental protection.
instead of this noble goal, the environmental protection committee has added a lot of bureaucratic regulations that will make it difficult to develop investment projects in europe.
they do environmental impact assessments at the early exploration stage, before we even know if shale gas is present in a particular location.
but it's clear that there's no point in doing an environmental impact assessment if it turns out that shale gas isn't there and we're not going to extract it.
the amendment cannot help to assess the environmental risk associated with shale gas extraction.
− the future of the european union's climate and energy policy is a matter of wide controversy.
in response to climate change, europe is working to develop and promote new renewable energy technologies.
i support this trend as it is an expression of concern for the environment and a tool to support technological innovation.
however, countries like poland see their chance of reducing emissions, becoming more energy independent and lowering energy prices in unconventional fossil fuels such as shale gas.
i naturally support the need for a thorough environmental impact assessment of all mining projects.
this is not justified in limiting the negative environmental impact of these activities and may effectively hamper any work on the possibility of shale gas extraction in poland.
− this report modernises the current safety regulations, while also addressing the environmental impact of motor boats.
with regard to environmental issues, the emission ceilings for marine engines have been significantly raised, while a balanced transition period for changes has been guaranteed.
the new requirements for on-board sewage tanks and wastewater treatment systems should also help to reduce environmental risks.
− there are several million recreational craft in the eu and their placing on the market should be subject to current regulations, including safety requirements; the commission proposal is just adapting the existing legal regime to safety and environmental requirements, including noise and exhaust emissions.
− i supported this report because it seeks to modernise existing rules on safety and environmental performance requirements for watercraft designed for private use.
i think it is appropriate to indicate in the report the need to change the limits for engine exhaust emissions, whereas it is technically impossible at present to introduce limits that are too strict.
the commission resolution also called for the inclusion of a corporate social responsibility clause and social and environmental clauses as part of the sustainable development chapter (in the event of an effective conclusion of the agreement).
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the report covers the full range of issues that meps tackled in 2012, from genetically modified food to waste disposal.
the committee received 1986 petitions on fundamental rights, the environment, the internal market, economic and social affairs, of which 1406 were considered admissible.
− european parliament legislative resolution of 10 october 2013 on the proposal for a directive on portable batteries and accumulators containing cadmium for use in cordless electronic devices (com ((2012) 0136 c7-0087/2012 2012/0066 ((cod)) i voted in favour of the resolution for the health of our citizens, as it is proven that cadmium has negative effects on the environment and human health, especially since when it accumulates in the environment or in the human body, it becomes toxic and can often cause irreversible damage.
we must continue to work toward providing a safe environment in which our citizens can live and prosper and this document fulfills that pursuit to the fullest.
i also believe that an enabling environment should be fostered for civil society activists and human rights defenders who work with people affected by caste discrimination.
i also believe that an environment that is conducive to civil society activists and human rights defenders working with people affected by this problem should be promoted.
the applicants stress the shortcomings of the legal acts in relation to the environmental risks they consider to be caused by the fracturing technology.
but under different assumptions, this climate summit will end up being another failure.
so i agree with you, commissioner, that without active, maybe even aggressive climate diplomacy, without un-level agreements and great policy, our politics will be very fragmented.
we're emitting 11% of our co2 emissions, but it's only 11% and the planet is at stake.
the idea of a global agreement of all parties should be consistent with the principle of equity and shared but differentiated carbon responsibility.
the agreement will only have a measurable and tangible environmental impact if it is shared and enforceable, not just declaratory.
despite the decline in emissions in europe and the united states, the international energy agency reported in its 2012 report that global co2 emissions were increasing.
i therefore believe that the latest position and conclusions adopted at the council meeting are moving in the right direction, are an example of a common sense compromise and of the community's response to the challenge of climate policy.
the european union, as one of the leaders, should focus on energy efficiency, energy security, competitiveness and solutions to reverse the trend in energy prices and costs, which are also becoming a global problem.
the companies are also responsible for climate policy.
poland is preparing to host the climate conference for the second time.
under the kyoto protocol, agreed in 1997 and in force since 2005, countries that have acceded to it will work towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
its validity has been extended until 2020. a new global agreement must affect all countries to reduce carbon emissions globally.
the european union, as a global player, must realise its potential and promote energy security, competitiveness and energy efficiency.
poland is preparing to host the climate conference for the second time.
the kyoto protocol, negotiated in 1997 and in force since 2005, commits the countries that have signed it to reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
it was supposed to expire last year, but at last year's climate summit in qatar, it was decided to extend it until 2020. this new global agreement, if it is to be concluded at all, must have real added value.
the global agreement that is being negotiated must involve all countries and mobilize all countries to work together to reduce co2 emissions.
the problem is that the european union has a much more restrictive approach to climate policy than the world's major economies.
it is important to remember that the eu's extremely costly climate policy is in line with global trends.
migration, demography, climate, energy and economic problems are increasingly being caused by events that take place far from where we live.
sustainable development work in developing countries therefore has an impact on the quality of life in different regions of developed countries.
skilled workers should be europe's greatest asset and the opportunity for sustainable economic growth and a competitive position on the global market.
the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: today's vote will mean that european ships will have to be dismantled in recycling facilities that comply with european standards, while safeguarding the health and safety of workers, combined with the need to protect the environment, a need highlighted in mr schlyter's report.
- the ship is a very complex structure in addition to steel, other metals and plastics it contains waste oils, lubricants, etc.
we recycle used ships, which can contain a wide variety of solid and liquid waste that is harmful to the environment and human health.
these facilities often lack the environmental and safety measures necessary to handle hazardous materials contained in decommissioned ships.
this situation results in high accident rates, risks to workers' health and significant environmental pollution.
the report focuses on the negative impact of ship recycling on human life and the environment.
the key to the proposed convention is to take care of the entire process of both building and stocking ships to ensure social and environmental safety.
regular ethnic conflicts are not conducive to the pursuit of sustainable development.
- i voted in favour of the corina creţu report on local authorities and civil society: europe's commitment to sustainable development.
local authorities, which ensure the proper development of the regional economy, also have a very important role to play in ensuring a coherent policy for sustainable development.
i believe that active cooperation between these organisations, regional institutions, private partners and individual citizens will contribute to building sustainable development at social, economic and cultural levels.
− i voted in favour of adopting the report on local authorities and civil society: europe’s engagement in support of sustainable development, because it is my belief that there is still a lot to do in the civil society building process.
the recommendations outlined in the report could allow for strong and wide networks being developed between local authorities and civil organisations which could contribute to the sustainable development of the eu.
my duty as a member of the european parliament is to support all activities which could provide a positive impulse for sustainable development.
a thoughtful approach and sustainable educational solutions are needed to prepare learners for the challenges of a constantly changing labour market.
improving patient safety requires improving a comprehensive, nationwide system that includes a wide range of measures to improve efficiency, environmental safety and risk management, including infection control, safe use of medicines, equipment safety, safe clinical practice and a safe patient care environment.
dishonest advertising is sold in the form of erroneous payment forms, entries in business directories and is also very common in the domain environment, thereby negatively affecting competition in the internal markets.
the shape of the sea will determine the future and the sustainability of european fisheries.
aquaculture is the most efficient source of protein, with the least environmental impact compared to other types of farming.
for example, everybody agrees that we have to spend more money – in a careful way, of course – on collecting data on sustainable fisheries, controls, new gears, a new environmental approach to the preservation of stocks, training for young fishermen and helping them to enter the profession.
we have discussed aquaculture a lot, and what we really need here is to promote sustainable aquaculture that is very environmentally-friendly and does not undermine the living conditions of the coastal regions.
the common fisheries policy addresses the problems facing europe's seas, such as overfishing and pollution.
as a result, fleets such as poland's are now among the oldest in europe, reflected in their inability to conserve their catch, increased greenhouse gas and pollution emissions and, above all, the danger to fishermen.
only by harmonizing these bases will we be able to guarantee the fullest possible knowledge of the marine ecosystem.
it will help to protect the marine environment more effectively, while at the same time reconciling the needs of marine fauna and flora with the interests of fishermen and processors.
implementation of this directive offers the opportunity to fill the gap in scientific research into the marine environment, which is the biggest pain point of the common fisheries policy and leads to wrong decisions.
i have to say that i'm not always a fan of the methods greenpeace uses, although i'm very appreciative of the fact that the organization and its members are pointing out certain problems, places in the world where there are threats to the environment, and bringing them to the attention of the public and the media, and by doing so, they're getting us politicians to start taking an interest in them.
greenpeace activists are protesting against oil drilling in the barents sea because of the extreme climate conditions in the region, which makes the likelihood of an accident and spill very high.
i am pleased that the committee on industry, research and energy has decided to review the implementation of the regulatory framework for electronic communications, as it shows any shortcomings that we should correct as soon as possible.
progress so far has included the establishment of innovative transnational projects, the creation of interconnections in the fields of energy and transport, the creation of joint measures to limit environmental risks, investments in education and training, and support for smes and new technologies.
commissioner, only actions based on building bridges between the individual countries of the union and the union as a whole, based on tools such as the carpathian strategy, will allow for the sustainable development of this part of europe.
i therefore voted in favour of the report by mr cadec, in which the emff is called upon to achieve environmentally sustainable fisheries management, taking account of climate change, and at the same time to develop employment in coastal areas, in particular by supporting investment in young people and their entry into the fishing industry.
one of the conditions for receiving such aid was to reduce the energy consumption of such a vessel by 40%.
i hope that, as this year's forum is taking place in warsaw, poland's strategic climate interests will be reflected in the decisions taken at the forum.
the controversial provision calling on the community to increase its carbon dioxide emissions reduction to 30% by next year has been removed.
the more difficult it is to accept the demands of some groups, such as the unilateral target of reducing emissions by up to 50% by 2030. given the current economic situation in less prosperous member countries, such rigorous proposals cannot win wide approval.
− cop 19 is the conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change.
the treaty, which has been ratified by 195 parties, sets out a framework for international cooperation on the issue of climate change on earth.
we voted on the resolution which will be the position of the european parliament at cop 19. the draft resolution put to the vote proposed that provisions be included which would lead to a sharp increase in energy prices.
the adoption of such legislation is very unfavourable for poland, as it threatens to increase unemployment and energy poverty of families.
and i also made seven amendments to the bill itself, all of which were designed to prevent the greenhouse gas reduction targets from being raised.
- i am in favour of supporting clean energy sources, preceded by an environmental analysis for shale gas.
i see the potential value of unconventional hydrocarbon deposits, including shale gas, which can contribute to the diversification of energy sources, in line with the eu's climate policy guidelines.
renewable energy sources should be used on a preferential basis so that poland's energy balance corresponds to the objectives set by the european union.
low-carbon fossil fuel-based sources such as shale gas should be included in the energy mix in order to balance market demand and reduce the risk of energy price increases and energy poverty.
- at the heart of these negotiations is the world's largest energy transition to date.
the first source of energy was firewood, which was used until the 18th century, when it was replaced by coal.
in just one century, the rapid pace of technological development has replaced coal as the primary energy source.
climate change has forced a shift to renewable energy and increased energy efficiency.
we have an obvious challenge of capital circulation in our existing energy systems, and time is not our ally.
scientific research shows that global greenhouse gas emissions cannot be higher than they are this decade, but must fall rapidly.
moreover, if we are to reduce the costs to humanity, the peak of emissions must come soon.
cooperation in ensuring the security of energy supply is one of the priorities of the eastern partnership and the european neighbourhood policy 2014-2020 and the vienna summit should therefore provide an impetus for closer cooperation in the energy sector as well.
- we debated the amending budget number 6 in a very tense environment.
this action programme can support the european union on its path towards a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy by 2020. we also agree with other meps that to increase the benefits of eu environmental legislation, its implementation needs to be improved.
this should be the main objective of the next environmental action plan.
ensuring compliance with the current environmental legislation in force in the european union will bring much more benefits than adding additional instruments and increasing bureaucracy.
we also call for a stronger scientific and evidence base for environmental policy.
i am particularly critical of russia's policy of using trade and energy instruments to exert pressure and blackmail in international relations.
− computers and networks can be used to support the distributed activities of high-energy physicists in many ways.
physicists can then work and teach at their home institutes, keeping the environment in touch with the latest research.
the connecting europe facility covers major investments in transport, energy, telecommunications and digitalisation and responds to market needs while maintaining the cross-border dimension and synergies of all three areas.
a good example is sustainable transport, which aims to solve the communication gaps between different parts of the eu and to provide better access to transport networks for citizens in different countries.
what is positive, what is encouraging, is first of all to maintain some consistency in cohesion policy, especially in the 12 new countries that have started their transformation in infrastructure, energy, etc.
economic disruption and the irresponsible management of the structural funds in some member states in the past are certainly hindering sustainable development and reducing the effectiveness of new investment.
given that the agreement entered into force many years ago, it is necessary to modify it in order to adapt it to the changing trade environment and to make it more attractive to states.
changes to the existing agreement were also necessary in view of the changes in the general trading environment.
in addition, the revised rules introduce a reference in line with eu public procurement directives to technical specifications, which enables contracting authorities to include environmental considerations in technical specifications.
in these times of economic and social crisis, it might seem that investing in culture or cinema is an excessive waste of money.
the union should create an environment conducive to innovation and creativity, in particular by encouraging the development of knowledge-based enterprises and providing financial support to the cultural sector.
the development of european transport, energy and telecommunications networks is the easiest way to achieve the economic integration of the member states.
our great opportunity is to enable high-speed transportation by road, by rail, by connecting seaports, by connecting the missing links of the energy grid and the internet.
this market should have smart, sustainable and fully interconnected transport, energy and digital networks.
the connecting europe facility will fund projects that fill the missing links in europe's energy, transport and digital fabric, which is crucial to improving the functioning of the eu's internal market.
in the context of energy infrastructure, this instrument will contribute to achieving greater independence from the supply of energy to the union.
− i voted in favour of this report because i strongly believe that concentrating resources on projects in the field of transport, energy, and telecommunications infrastructure will help create integrated european networks that ensure the high-performance of that infrastructure throughout the eu.
i believe that this is important in the field of energy in particular.
we must focus on solidarity in the field of security of eu energy supplies and on launching intelligent and better performing energy-saving networks.
we have seen how energy can be used as a political tool.
− the connecting europe facility is the main instrument the eu has to finance all those projects that contribute to growth and competitiveness in the transport, energy and communications sectors.
i voted in favour because i believe it is essential to provide the public transport engineering sector with the means to implement infrastructure projects, as well as to stimulate research, innovation, technology transfer and development; finally, i believe that we must aim at achieving ambitious goals in the field of transport, energy and telecommunications systems which are sound, efficient and reliable, and which will enable the union to compete with the emerging powers.
− the connecting europe facility aims to finance investment in transport, energy and telecommunications from the eu budget between 2014 and 2020 in the form of grants and financial instruments that will support projects that are key to infrastructure development.
nine key multimodal transport corridors will be established, covering sustainable transport modes such as rail, inland waterways and 'motorways of the sea', and the integration of ports, airports and logistics platforms will be strengthened.
it is the most important precondition for generating sustainable, balanced and smart growth, not only for all member states but also for all social groups.
the cef regulation aims to create a new, integrated instrument to support investment in the eu's priority transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure.
the mechanism creates 'european added value' by contributing to the construction of railways, airports, ports, maritime transport links, energy networks, gas and oil pipelines, as well as to the construction of intelligent transport systems and high-speed transport networks.
the connecting europe initiative also aims to build the missing network elements and remove barriers to long-distance transport, energy and telecommunications flows, which is a priority for poland's development.
it is a special instrument which will finance the construction of a pan-european transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure from next year.
a functioning trans-european transport network will allow the free movement of people and goods to be fully realised and will also be a tool for sustainable economic growth and regional cohesion.
− europe must build missing links and remove bottlenecks in transport infrastructure, and strive to ensure sustainable transport for future generations.
finally, the priority european corridors for transport, energy and telecommunications were defined.
the energy efficiency of the reactor is to be 10. it's the first reactor that generates more energy than it consumes.
as a proponent of energy from natural sources such as coal and shale gas, i believe that the extraction of energy from atomic sources poses a potential threat to the health and life of the public.
as an opponent of nuclear energy, which poses a potential threat to the lives and health of the population, i believe that the highest priority is to ensure maximum safety.
first of all, it does not bring any direct benefits, but rather harms both the financial, economic, environmental and social situation of these countries and the energy sector.
the treatment and management of radioactive waste, which poses an immediate threat, is also a matter of concern.
energy from natural resources such as coal, shale gas and natural gas is also undoubtedly more profitable and, above all, less expensive.
they also indicate that the issue of reducing low emissions is becoming one of the key policy issues in the next programming period.
another important element of the regional development fund is the new element that has emerged in this programming period, namely the large increase in the importance of the so-called urban dimension both investments in cities, issues of revitalization, environmental protection, housing construction and in particular the energy efficiency of buildings, but also new methods, new instruments such as iti investments, which are linked to integrated territorial development.
we have also put a lot of energy into developing and supporting new solutions, strengthening the impact of this policy on the ground.
a lot of that energy was directed at the question of ex ante conditionality, which, i am sure, will pave the way to better and more targeted use of the funds.
i wanted to stress that the european social fund will not guarantee us new jobs, because it is a tool that can help create them, provided that its resources are used wisely, that we do not waste millions of euros on programmes that benefit only companies that provide training and not the unemployed, that we reduce bureaucracy, simplify the rules, as all the beneficiaries have called for.
i would like cohesion policy to focus more on energy efficiency, renewable energy and the creation of infrastructure for common energy security.
we are introducing environmental commitments and at the same time mandatory premiums for young farmers.
the greatest opportunity to improve the well-being of europe's rural population lies in multidimensional and sustainable rural development ranging from increasing the competitiveness of agricultural and processing production, improving agricultural markets, to developing non-agricultural activities and enhancing the overall economic prospects of rural areas.
i believe that agriculture is so dependent on climate that the necessary intervention measures should have been left to the developers.
we don't need new directives on shale gas, new requirements on environmental impact.
we need predictability for investors in the energy sector.
the policy of high energy prices in europe, particularly in the context of the free trade agreement with the united states, must be abandoned as a matter of urgency.
given the importance of smes for the labour market, i hope that the communication on the results of the refit programme, published in october, will enable the commission to remove administrative barriers and simplify procedures in order to create new, sustainable jobs.
a common set of rules will maximise the effectiveness of all instruments under cohesion policy, the full operation of which ensures a sustainable economic recovery and enhances competitiveness.
interestingly, several new investment priorities are proposed, such as energy efficiency in large enterprises, railway rebuilding, urban regeneration and e-culture.
the main emphasis is on supporting innovative tasks in the field of sustainable urban development.
particularly aimed at increasing the sustainability, efficiency and safety of transport through its concentration, such as urban park and ride systems.
in this context, the funds will enable integrated, sustainable urban development.
in this respect, improving coordination between systems was key, precisely to deliver investments for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in line with the europe 2020 strategy.
today's europe needs a new european regional development fund, which provides flexibility for regions to adapt to their situation and needs, while at the same time forcing a concentration of resources on several thematic areas, such as research, technological development and the transition to a low-carbon economy.
it is worth noting that over the next seven years, up to €300 million has been earmarked for innovation activities in the framework of the sustainable development of europe's cities: this will ensure a stronger focus on the development of urban areas at a strategic level.
first of all, much of the space is devoted to low-carbon policies aimed at reducing greenhouse gases, which is a disadvantage for poland, given the role of coal as the main raw material in energy production.
however, it should be ensured that each country is able to decide, inter alia, on its own energy infrastructure, which best corresponds to and serves the interests and security of the country concerned.
the cohesion fund is intended to provide financial support for transport investments, environmental projects and innovative energy projects.
the cohesion fund is part of the package of proposals governing cohesion policy for 2014-2020. its adoption opens up the possibility of a number of new investments in roads, railways as part of the trans-european transport networks, subsidies for low-emission transport systems, additional investments in the water sector and in the urban environment, the creation of a network of 'smart cities' and many other projects.
the cohesion fund is therefore one of the key instruments to bridge these gaps by providing financial support for large-scale investments in infrastructure development or modernisation or environmental protection.
the social fund primarily finances investments in the modernisation of railway lines, the improvement of drinking water quality and the management of municipal waste.
the amendments will also facilitate territorial cooperation in areas such as public transport, energy and water supply, health, education and vocational training by being open to all public utilities.
the euct is very important in strategic areas of cooperation such as transport, education, energy and health.
in addition, a common list of indicators to objectively assess the effectiveness of the cap in meeting food production, sustainable management and environmental objectives should be considered.
the new cap especially in the case of a country like poland will provide significant support for rural areas and their sustainable development in the coming years, although overall the budget has been reduced by as much as 11%.
this is one of the key factors for rebuilding rural jobs and sustainable development.
it focuses on sustainable development, innovation and improving the competitiveness of farms, especially smaller ones.
in addition, the agricultural funds are concerned about proposals that may have excessive environmental burdens that many farms, especially in poorer countries, may find difficult to cope with.
member states will be able to prepare programmes tailored to their specific needs within the framework of union legislation, focusing mainly on improving the competitiveness of agriculture, sustainable management of natural resources and climate action, and sustainable territorial development of rural areas.
the priorities of the eafrd include support for knowledge transfer, the promotion of innovation and modernisation in agriculture and forestry, improving the functioning of the agri-food chain, increasing the competitiveness of farms, support for producer organisations, environmental protection and climate change action, and broad economic development of rural areas (infrastructure investment, education, culture, support under the leader programme, etc.).
the instruments available under the second pillar of the cap will give member states greater freedom to support their own regions, ensuring sustainable rural development.
the rapporteur proposes to extend the rural development actions under the current axis i and ii (competitiveness and environment and land management) which could be applied for in 2014. as the current funding period has been exhausted, new actions will be able to be financed from new envelopes already earmarked for the next financial perspective.
ending the multiple seat arrangement is the way forward to ensure greater efficiency and responsibility of our institutions, in both budgetary and environmental terms.
in addition, consideration should be given to the environmental costs, the time lost in travelling and commuting and the logistical organisation.
at a time of crisis and looming demographic, environmental and technological changes affecting our labour markets and social protection systems, such legislation is very timely.
i hope that the new programme and the combination of progres, eures and the microfinance facility will prove in practice not just a bureaucratic simplification, but a real tool with tangible benefits for the beneficiaries, contributing to the effective dissemination of a high level of sustainable employment.
it's very good that the second climate protection sub-programme has been set aside.
we know that there's a climate summit going on right now, and many of the problems that we have, perhaps, by paying attention to it, will be solved.
the natural environment is a priceless asset and we in europe should protect it.
however, the european union's approach to so-called climate policy must be assessed with utmost criticism.
it will lead to the fact that jobs will now be moved out of the european union to those regions of the world that are not concerned about climate change and that do not intend to participate in or commit themselves in any way to reducing carbon emissions.
so, if we are aware that the european union is only responsible for 11% of the carbon emissions of the world, even if the european union were to reduce its emissions by 80%, it would not change the overall situation in terms of global emissions, because if we look globally, there is no limit to the atmosphere, emissions in china or in europe are the same, so there will be no effect other than a significant weakening of the competitiveness of the european economy.
as a result, if we want to make rational climate policy action, we have to do it together, and if there is no will to act together, we have to abandon ineffective, irrational, absurd climate policy, which will have no effect other than to weaken the european economy - the economy of the european union - significantly.
research and innovation are the ways in which europe 2020 sees sustainable and sustainable growth.
eu cooperation with member states in science is an opportunity to maintain industry leadership in innovation and to achieve sustainable development.
access to finance for smes should be facilitated, an enabling environment for new business creation should be created, entrepreneurship in europe should be promoted and the competitiveness of the european economy should be strengthened.
− the global economic crisis has re-examined the approach to climate policy of the countries most important to the global economy.
the previous climate summits in durban and ad-dauschedausche were a complete failure of european climate policy.
this is because of the unrealistic and economically disruptive assumptions of the eu's climate policy.
− life is the continuation of the life+ programme, which ran from 2007 to 2013. it is the only fund devoted entirely to environmental protection in the european union, and is the main instrument for direct financing of community environmental policy.
there is no doubt that the eu must support action on biodiversity, the environment and resource efficiency, as well as environmental management and information.
climate action to mitigate and adapt to climate change, and the management and information of climate action are also needed.
the challenge is to implement such a policy to protect the environment and combat climate change without damaging the economy and reducing european competitiveness.
− as an opponent of drastic cuts in carbon emissions and restrictions on the extraction and use of natural resources as energy sources, i believe that actions to protect forests, among other things, as natural carbon sinks and to preserve biodiversity are a step towards preventing environmental degradation.
the key issue is the fight against fraud, which in the current economic climate contributes to the financial losses of the states.
however, it is entrepreneurship that has the potential to restore sustainable and balanced economic growth in the european union.
it has to be sustainable.
the current common fisheries policy has been met with general criticism from all fisheries communities and a number of environmental organisations.
i am pleased with the solutions that have been developed, because they show that the european union is at the forefront of sustainable development, environmental protection and the needs of society.
we have managed to introduce rules on the maintenance of fishing capacity in individual member states and to regulate the issue of fishing in third countries and the impact of respect for human rights on the sustainability of agreements.
this is a good result because it is a step towards sustainability, regionalisation, and a better external aspect of the policy.
it was devastating to the environment and to fish stocks in europe and the world.
the sector is now set to benefit from new regulations that aim to restore sustainable fishing and put an end to uneconomic practices.
this is very important in view of the many endangered fish species and the decline in the diversity of the aquatic ecosystem.
this will allow for faster implementation of those elements of the eu environmental directives that are related to fisheries.
the criteria for the allocation of responsibilities should include environmental, social and economic criteria.
this will help to increase employment and reduce environmental degradation.
deep-sea fishing, above 400 m, can certainly be a threat to the environment.
member states will be responsible for assessing the impact of fishing on the state of the marine ecosystem before renewing the authorisation for further fishing.
all of this ensures that the principle of sustainable development is being implemented.
this is particularly important in the context of increasing fishing areas with mutual benefits and the sustainable exploitation of natural resources.
the agreement will bring economic benefits while maintaining appropriate fishing standards and environmental consideration.
it is worth noting that this mechanism is not limited to the protection of people, but also concerns the environment and cultural heritage.
− a transparent legal environment and an efficient judiciary are the key to the stable development of the european economy.
in addition, the parties undertook in the protocol to respect democratic principles, to respect human rights and to fish in accordance with the applicable strict sustainable exploitation standards.
i therefore strongly believe that the adoption of this agreement will bring tangible economic, social and environmental benefits to both parties.
the overall objective is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the kingdom of morocco and to establish a framework for a partnership for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the moroccan fishing zone, which is in the interest of both parties.
- i voted in favour of the report on denmark's application for aid from the egf to the danish company vestas, active in the wind energy sector.
satellite monitoring of climate change may even help to prevent disasters.
the two most important projects we support in the space policy are the copernicus programme (formerly known as the environmental and safety monitoring programme gmes), whose main task is to prevent emergencies, and the galileo programme, which will soon allow us to use our own satellite navigation system, controlled by civil authorities.
the benefits to our aviation, logistics, emergency response and energy sectors, for example, will be enormous.
i believe that the cap as it is today has not met its objectives, and that the union needs a new, reformed policy to manage fisheries resources in a sustainable way.
in my view, the reform of the common fisheries policy in the form proposed will guarantee the sustainable development of the aquaculture sector, thus ensuring food security.
i believe that a common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products is needed in the european union to improve the profitability of the sector, to ensure better sales of these products and to ensure sustainable fishing.
catches at this level will allow this stock to reach its maximum sustainable yield (msy) by 2015. the commission also proposes to increase the tacs for two stocks of redfish in the western waters (west of scotland and ireland respectively) by 20% and 5%.
− global warming caused by the emission of harmful pollutants into the atmosphere, especially co2, is one of the major challenges facing developed countries.
the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) has reduced co2 emissions by more than 10% since 2008. the economic crisis, combined with the planned transition to the third accounting period (2013-2020), has resulted in a significant surplus of allowances, leading to a decrease in carbon prices from eur 30 to around eur 7 per tonne.
the fall in prices is affecting the lack of use of innovative low-carbon technologies and the commission has therefore proposed the so-called ets backloading, i.e.
just as i support strengthening climate policy and investing in renewable energy, i am opposed to similar interference in the emissions market.
the sharp increase in their prices may have a direct impact on even higher electricity prices for households and industry, especially energy-intensive sectors.
analysis shows that the coal-based energy sector in poland will generate costs of around eur 1 billion in 2013-2020, which will be borne by ordinary citizens.
− the greenhouse gas emissions trading system (ets) is designed to reduce the negative environmental impact of european industry.
unfortunately, for countries whose economies are largely based on coal, such interference with the ets can cause a dramatic increase in energy prices.
the integration of the co2 market, which the eu says is intended to increase the price of emission allowances and thus encourage companies to invest in low-carbon technologies, is, in my view, another step towards the union's suicidal climate policy, which reduces the competitiveness of european economies.
environmental protection cannot be at the expense of the proper functioning of our industry.
that's why i've consistently opposed interference with the emissions trading system.
the commission is clearly determined to do harm to the economies of the most economically weak countries in the name of a climate dogma that unjustifiably links climate change with anthropogenic co2 emissions.
we should move away from the ets because this european system has not passed the practical test and is inconsistent with the kyoto decisions on this issue (for example, regarding the emission limits imposed by the ec between 2008 and 2012), and does not take into account all market elements, such as the absorption capacity of agriculture and forestry and the monetization of these sectors of the economy on emissions trading.
the objective of directive 2003/87/ec is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, not the high price of emission allowances themselves.
emissions have already been reduced to the level that was supposed to be reached in 2020, and so by 20 percent last year.
i'm not sure that the continent's economy is prepared to raise energy prices and reduce its competitiveness, especially at such a volatile time of emerging from the crisis.
this is all the more so as the unforeseen decline in carbon prices has not worked to support sustainable scientific and technological innovation and has contributed to reducing incentives to invest in low-carbon technologies and even to making the european market dependent on infrastructure that generates even higher co2 emissions.
regardless of the amount of carbon dioxide emissions at which they occurred.
− the report on emissions trading was already debated in the european parliament this year.
this is one of the most controversial reports, because it addresses a key issue for countries whose energy system is based on hard coal.
from my point of view, this is a drive to artificially inflate the price of emissions trading.
i understand the genesis: the root cause of the problem is the reckless political consent of the state authorities in 2007, and then the situation worsened in 2008, accepting these 6 instruments, among them the emissions trading.
the eu's emissions trading system, which once again fails, is a pillar of the eu's strategy to combat climate change.
there should be no agreement in this house to turn the current emissions trading system into a tool for artificially raising the price of allowances, which will in turn lead to higher energy prices in europe.
it will lead to an inherently energy-intensive and high-emission industry with higher operating costs, making production in europe even more expensive.
− europe needs an eu climate policy and it is always worth striving for ambition.
as an organisation of industrialised countries, the european union has a duty to combat the negative effects of climate change and to set a good example of sustainable development for the world to follow.
for these reasons, i support european climate policy.
withdrawing part of the greenhouse gas emission allowances from the market will increase their price, which may lead to curbing of the emissions themselves.
climate policy cannot be an automatic policy; it must always go hand in hand with concern for the employment and well-being of europeans.
i am convinced that just as today the majority of germans, french and swedes support the reduction of industrial emissions in the eu, i hope that in the near future the majority of poles will also support this.
− the european greenhouse gas emissions trading system (ets) needs to be reformed.
this central instrument of eu climate policy was adopted to promote emission reductions.
the prices of allowances reflecting the cost of greenhouse gas emissions from electricity generation and industrial production are set in a market-based manner.
at the beginning (in 2005) they were around eur 30 per tonne, but recently they have fallen even below eur 3. the economic slowdown, the increase in energy efficiency and the share of cleaner fuels in the energy mix, as well as the accumulation of additional allowances from previous years, have led to a surplus and, consequently, to a large fall in prices.
low prices mean that it is not profitable for companies to switch to cleaner fuels or invest in low-carbon technologies.
this undermines the credibility of the eu's flagship climate policy instrument.
the european commission's cars2020 plan is right to focus on maintaining the global competitiveness of european car manufacturers and to recognise the need to innovate in order to produce safe and energy-efficient vehicles that reduce co2, noise and other pollutants, and to make it easier for smes in particular to access credit to finance innovation and research.
- i voted in favour of the report on the action plan for a competitive and sustainable automotive industry in europe.
the proposed cars 2020 plan envisages the promotion of new and advanced technological solutions in the automotive industry and the introduction of clean energy vehicles on the market.
the solutions resulting from the european environmental objectives are a great opportunity to create sustainable competitiveness.
the union's automotive policy should take into account, through the liberalisation of the production of low-cost spare parts, the improvement of environmental performance and the purchase of cheaper, quality-compatible and safe automotive products.
however, the sector has been particularly hard hit by the economic crisis, which is why comprehensive action is so important for a competitive and sustainable automotive industry in the european union.
common technical standards, rules on road safety and product safety, and noise and pollution emissions provide a high level of protection for over 500 million european consumers.
this will give the eu car industry opportunities, accompanied, however by strong pressure to improve sustainability and face increasing global competition.
the most important issue is reinforcing the automobile sector as this mean creating jobs and wealth in europe through increasing competitiveness, innovation and the increasing adoption of a sustainable approach towards mobility.
this is why it is so important to create an enabling environment for volunteering and its widespread availability in all eu member states, and to promote it especially among pupils, students and young people, especially as the role of volunteering is crucial in gaining experience and skills that will then help them to find their place in the labour market.
the european year of volunteering has shown how much energy and potential there is in volunteering.
the activities initiated then and continued have helped to improve the climate around volunteering and to draw public attention to the importance of volunteering.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
from the point of view of the committee on industry, our neighbourhood in the east and the south is of great importance, particularly in the field of energy.
energy is crucial for competitiveness, for small and medium-sized enterprises, for the economic development of these countries.
the benefits are of course mutual, on the one hand we have the potential to tap into their energy resources, both conventional and renewable, on the other hand they have the potential to influence the diversification of energy supplies and sources for the european union.
all this must be done in compliance with our acquis communautaire, the third energy package, the energy charter, the energy community treaty, our legal acquis.
it is important that countries have the opportunity to use this instrument to strengthen civil society, and in particular the role of young people, in building democracy and to create an enabling environment that will improve the conditions for political dialogue.
− the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument (enpi) is an initiative of the european commission whose main objective is to develop cooperation between the european union and non-eu partner countries by ensuring integrated and sustainable regional development.
if such incidents occur, the transport of radioactive material should be stopped immediately, all countries where such transport was foreseen should be notified of the risk and the carrier should be required to comply with strict transport rules, as this is fundamental for the safety of people and the protection of the environment.
i therefore believe that a specific programme to support the dairy sector in less-favoured areas is necessary to prevent negative economic and environmental impacts in these areas.
the small variation in agricultural activities due to the terrain and climate, the higher production and transport costs and the specific infrastructure are challenges that producers in disadvantaged areas have to deal with on a daily basis.
further action at european level is necessary to ensure a secure future for this sector and to avoid the rural depopulation and the negative economic and environmental impacts.
they are the result of ongoing irreversible climate change, improper land use or environmental degradation.
usefulness comes also from the capabilities it offers for environmental protection.
the position of the parliament was formed through close cooperation between members of the committee on transport and tourism and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the green infrastructure project, which was prepared by the european commission and for which salvatore tatarella was responsible in the environment committee, is a very important project.
nature has not only aesthetic value, but is also the element behind such sensitive parts of our lives and economy as providing drinking water, retention, purifying the air from pollutants or regulating the climate at a local level.
this is why this eu project, which involves the sustainable use of nature in infrastructure projects, is so important.
the projects under discussion may be part of a wider eu policy to reconcile economic development with environmental protection.
this document should be an inspiration for regional policies in europe and should be the subject of debate amongst those politicians and citizens who will be involved in the development of sustainable development agendas in urban and municipal policies.
− given that a clean and healthy environment is one of the european union's priorities, support for eco-innovation is essential to achieving this.
environmental challenges such as climate change and limited resources require change and radical action, in which green technologies can play a key role.
eco-innovation is not only beneficial for environmental reasons, but also a response to the crisis that is engulfing europe, especially among young people.
−eco-innovation is a form of innovation that aims to make significant and visible progress towards sustainable development, with the aim of making more efficient and responsible use of natural resources.
environmentally friendly innovation aims, for example, to reduce co2 emissions and to use resources such as water and other natural resources more efficiently.
this is further supported by the fact that eco-innovation generates environmental benefits and can play a significant role in an efficient, low-carbon economy, thereby addressing global challenges such as climate change, scarcity of natural resources and other food security issues.
in order to accelerate the development of green innovation and to better exploit its potential, further action is needed in various areas, such as strengthening the legal framework for sustainable development in different sectors, investing in education, training and retraining, facilitating access to finance through better use of existing financial instruments.
improving the use of resources and energy and engaging in a wide range of innovations will improve the environment and lead to new industries and new jobs in the coming years.
the resolution calls on the member states to open up to ukraine by strengthening cooperation in research, youth exchanges and increasing the rates of available scholarships, and further emphasises that further steps should be taken to integrate ukraine into the internal energy market.
how to reconcile economic development with increasingly stringent environmental requirements is a crucial issue today.
eco-innovation aims to introduce new products that not only benefit producers and consumers, but also drastically reduce the negative impact on the environment.
this eu project, which is designed to support entrepreneurs in all sectors, will, however, place particular emphasis on the following sectors: waste, construction products and food products.
research and development funding can help to remove barriers to competitive business solutions that are sustainable.
at the same time, i believe that support for this type of innovation can have a positive impact on the eu's wider climate goals.
investments, if properly targeted, can bring potential emissions reductions and energy efficiency gains to the union economy.