only the restoration of economic activity will create sustainable jobs, but in this area another level of policy guidance is required from the eu and the country to reverse this job-destroying trajectory where young people are most affected.
at the same time, the largest personal fortunes in portugal increased by 13%, and energy and telecommunications companies posted profits of over eur 1.240 billion.
in the context of global changes in land use, climate and other factors, biological diversity is a key factor for ecosystem resilience.
the diversity of crop plants in particular is crucial for food security and environmental reasons.
the new cohesion policy programming should develop territorial governance actions that take the issue of social sustainability and urban transformation as a priority theme, which should provide growth instruments for the quality of life, valuing the identities, memory and history of the territories.
in the light of the current economic climate, it is clear that funding under political cohesion is becoming increasingly important in europe's regions and that there is a growing need to ensure that money is spent more effectively so that citizens can benefit fully from european funding.
the new programming of cohesion policy through this structural approach should develop territorial governance actions that take the issue of the social sustainability of urban transformation as a priority theme.
the promotion of urban regeneration and regeneration (creating wealth and opportunities) is therefore one of the challenges to which the union must respond by promoting a genuine model of sustainable urban development.
special attention should also be paid to environmental problems, such as the increase in green spaces, air quality and, in particular, the management of urban waste.
- europe, in addition to the crisis it is going through, is experiencing a process of population loss only mitigated by immigration, which will, in the very near future, determine the sustainability of european social security systems.
this approach envisages an interconnection of the natural and environmental system with the cultural-historical and the productive partnership, also referring to the importance of developing access to public services, improving urban spaces and the growth of the economic fabric, residential works and infrastructure.
this own-initiative report aims to guide european policies so that they are sustainable and smart.
urban planning, which seeks to create an attractive urban environment, can become an important factor in economic recovery by enabling improvements in mobility in urban centres, the energy-efficient upgrading of obsolete housing stock and the creation of new social housing as a more urgent response to poverty.
- around 80% of europeans live in urban areas, where the effects of the economic crisis are largely concentrated and where the challenges of combating climate change, job creation, well-being and quality of life are most acute.
i think it is therefore essential that a reserve of at least 5% of erdf funds be set up, allocated directly to the municipalities and allocated to integrated actions for sustainable urban development.
this approach envisages an interconnection of the natural and environmental system with the historical-cultural and socioproductive, also referring to the importance of developing access to public services, improving urban spaces and the growth of the economic fabric, residential works and infrastructure.
− in the light of the current economic climate, it is clear that funding under political cohesion is becoming increasingly important in europe's regions and that there is a growing need to ensure that money is spent more effectively so that citizens can benefit fully from european funding.
reducing waste, making access more flexible, coordinating support and monitoring its use are key ideas that should guide european action.
understandably, in the current political climate characterised by a difficult budgetary situation in many member states, it is difficult to move forward with a proposal that entails additional costs.
in view of the trend towards an increase in the number and intensity of natural disasters as a result of climate change, it is urgent to simplify and adapt procedures in order to enhance the effectiveness of the eusf.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
a restructuring process can only be successful in an economically and socially responsible way if it is integrated into a strategy that ensures and enhances the long-term sustainability and competitiveness of the company and at the same time protects the interests of its employees, and the dismissal of employees should be considered only as a last resort.
i believe that the creation of a european framework for restructuring should help to create a climate of mutual trust, and i therefore support the creation of urgent and concrete measures in this area, such as monitoring measures for the activities of companies, in order to prevent any abuse which particularly harms workers.
such recommendations on the proposed legislative act shall address the object, definitions and scope of the proposed legislative act, as well as long-term strategic planning, adaptability and employability, anticipation of employment and skills needs, information and consultation on business decisions, minimisation of internal social costs through a social plan, agreements on the management of restructuring processes, minimisation of external economic, social and environmental impact, public and financial support, and the designation of relevant public authorities.
- i welcome this report, considering that it is by addressing the challenges in the horn of africa, which impact on european interests through the external effects of instability such as piracy, that we can effectively resolve the situation, which requires a sustainable and comprehensive commitment focused on the needs of the local population in terms of humanitarian aid and socioeconomic development.
the region is also frequently the victim of famine and serious diseases caused by environmental disasters, but also by the insufficiency of production to feed the population of the region.
the implementation of the eu strategic framework for the horn of africa, which is based on the following points, is of crucial importance: (i) building strong and accountable democratic political structures in all countries; (ii) working with the countries of the region and with regional and international actors and organisations in conflict resolution; (iii) ensuring that the insecurity in the region does not pose a threat to the security of other neighbouring states; (iv) supporting efforts to promote economic growth and poverty reduction; (v) supporting regional political and economic cooperation; (vi) highlighting the importance of promoting sustainable economic growth and poverty reduction in the region, while responding to the basic needs of the population.
genetic resources are particularly essential for the sustainability of agriculture and food security.
as such, it is imperative to combat the current loss of genetic diversity that occurs through the process of biodiversity erosion, better known as biodiversity piracy.
this kind of piracy, which is a challenge to humanity today, is a new challenge for both the owners of this biodiversity and its users, who are generally the rich countries.
i therefore believe that the international institutions within the framework of the policy of cohesion for development should support and not contradict the nagoya protocol, considering it to be an effective tool to combat piracy in the field of biodiversity.
genetic resources (gr) are particularly critical for sustainable agriculture and food security.
biopiracy should therefore be one of the major challenges facing the european union, as such practices run counter to the eu's commitments to eradicate poverty and protect europe's biodiversity.
genetic resources are particularly critical for sustainable agriculture and food security.
the loss of genetic diversity resulting from the process of erosion of biodiversity is therefore a key challenge for humanity.
states and international organisations should apply the principles set out in the un convention on biological diversity and in particular the nagoya protocol to combat biopiracy, restore equity in the sharing of genetic resources and contribute to more sustainable agriculture and food security.
− genetic resources (gr) are fundamental to sustainable agriculture and food security for all, but are of particular importance for developing countries.
the loss of genetic diversity resulting from the process of erosion of biodiversity therefore poses a challenge to humanity.
gmos are essential for sustainable agriculture and enhance food security.
genetic resources (gr) are particularly critical for sustainable agriculture and food security.
the loss of genetic diversity resulting from the process of erosion of biodiversity is therefore a key challenge for humanity.
this erosion of diversity poses new challenges for both the holders and users of gmos, the former being more often developing countries rich in biodiversity and the latter generally developed countries.
biopiracy, that is 'the commercial practice of privatising and patenting traditional knowledge or genetic resources of indigenous peoples without the corresponding authorisation or award of compensation to the countries of origin', is manifested as a practice contrary to the union's commitments in terms of poverty reduction and eradication, protection of biodiversity and the principle of policy coherence in a development perspective, as it criminally prevents the equitable sharing of the benefits resulting from the use of traditional knowledge originating in developing countries.
genetic resources are particularly critical for sustainable agriculture and food security.
a joint issue of stability bonds must be based on rigorous criteria: a sustainable budgetary framework with strict discipline and good economic governance, guarantees and incentive systems that prevent speculation and moral hazard.
the reduction of taxes on labour for companies, which threatens the sustainability of social security systems, the increase in the retirement age, the linking of wages to productivity, i.e.
the 1999 directive thus sought to approximate the rules in force in the member states in this field in order to establish a level playing field essential for the proper functioning of the internal market, while seeking to ensure a high level of protection for the general public, consumers and the environment.
in this connection, i voted in favour of the report on the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea, taking into account the need to adapt the regulation to the new provisions introduced by the treaty of lisbon.
- i voted in favour of the report on the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea, taking into account the need to adapt the regulation to the new provisions introduced by the treaty of lisbon, in particular as regards the new legislative powers conferred on the european parliament by the treaty.
- the mediterranean sea is undergoing a high fishing pressure which may jeopardise the sustainability of its fisheries resources.
the mediterranean sea is a unique environment, with a rich diversity of habitats and ecosystems.
we all know the biodiversity that this sea contains and the threats to which it is subject.
management measures to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources in the mediterranean sea are therefore urgently needed.
because i believe it is essential to adopt a sustainable management plan that will help member states to benefit from this means, i voted in favour of the report drawn up by my colleague anna rosbach on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1967/2006 on the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea.
- this is another report which seeks to amend the regulation (of 2006) on management measures for the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea in order to bring it into line with article 290 tfeu as regards the delegation of acts to the commission.
we cannot agree more on the need for sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
however, we believe that it is mainly through local management - involving the sector and the communities in the definition and implementation of measures - that this sustainable exploitation can be achieved.
- the text adopted today concerns a matter of paramount importance: the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources in the mediterranean sea.
it is therefore very important to find quickly appropriate legislation for the mediterranean sea, accepted by the member states and all stakeholders, taking into account the specificities of the sea basin and ensuring at the same time the effective sustainability of fisheries and the protection of resources and the environment.
− regulation (ec) no 1967/2006 on management measures for the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea is one of the first fisheries sector documents to be aligned with the new system of delegated and implementing acts, and it is therefore of the utmost importance to find a sound and well-founded legal solution to safeguard the rights conferred by the lisbon treaty on the european parliament.
given the relevance of these legislative measures to the sustainable management and exploitation of fishery resources in the mediterranean sea, i voted in favour of this report.
in the hope of seeing an improvement in the implementation of this regulation and of efforts to achieve sustainable management and exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea, i voted in favour of this report.
− under council regulation (ec) no 1967/2006 on management measures for the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea, it is proposed that certain powers be delegated to the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that it is effectively implemented.
- this is another report which seeks to amend the regulation (of 2006) on management measures for the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea in order to bring it into line with article 290 tfeu as regards the delegation of acts to the commission.
we cannot agree more on the need for sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
however, we believe that it is mainly through local management - involving the sector and the communities in the definition and implementation of measures - that this sustainable exploitation can be achieved.
the importance of this protocol is particularly high, since it allows national authorities to act in the name of the common good and to claim compensation from operators for damage to biodiversity.
- i voted in favour of this report because i consider that this international treaty provides a framework, based on the precautionary principle, for the safe transfer, handling and use of living modified organisms (lmos) resulting from modern biotechnologies, which may have adverse effects on the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity or involve risks to human health.
- i voted in favour of the report on the 'celebration of the nagoya-kuala lumpur additional protocol on civil liability and indemnity to the cartagena protocol on biosafety', because it will make a major contribution to the achievement of the objectives of the convention on biological diversity, particularly with regard to civil liability and compensation for damage to biodiversity caused by living modified organisms.
the convention on biological diversity (cbd) entered into force on 29 december 1993. the cartagena protocol on biosafety was adopted on 29 january 2000 as a complementary agreement to the cbd and entered into force on 11 september 2003. this international treaty provides a framework, based on the precautionary principle, for the safe transfer, handling and use of living modified organisms (lmos) resulting from modern biotechnologies, which may have adverse effects on the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity or involve risks to human health.
in the context of the cartagena protocol, the nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol on civil liability and indemnity, annexed to the cartagena protocol on biosafety, focuses mainly on the procedures and requirements for the intervention measures that it is required to take in the event of damage caused by lmos that may have adverse effects on the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity or involve risks to human health.
in the spirit of the european union directive on environmental liability adopted in 2004, this supplementary protocol specifically addresses civil liability and compensation for damage to biodiversity caused by lmo.
in the spirit of the european union directive on environmental liability adopted in 2004, this supplementary protocol specifically aims to ensure civil liability and compensation for damage to biodiversity caused by living modified organisms.
the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's environmental policy is not distorted by the use of chemical weapons, and calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's environmental policy is not distorted by the use of chemical weapons.
− the nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol on civil liability and indemnity aims to contribute to a greater and more efficient conservation of the biodiversity of planet earth.
the document contains important provisions on international rules and procedures for liability and compensation for damage to biodiversity resulting from the transboundary movement of living modified organisms.
the signature of the convention by the eu and its member states (except the republic of estonia, the hellenic republic and the republic of malta) demonstrates not only the legislative coherence of the signatories but also the importance attached by the eu to ensuring the highest standards of environmental protection in the european territory and to promoting it at global level.
given the importance of environmental policy for the eu and its economic and political actors, i am voting in favour of the conclusion of the protocol.
in this respect, it is urgent to ensure a sustainable balance in the finances of the member states, and to ensure less imbalance and greater budgetary and economic integration, accompanied by greater solidarity between member states.
in this respect, it is urgent to ensure a sustainable balance in the finances of the member states, but also to ensure less imbalance and greater budgetary and economic integration, accompanied by greater solidarity between countries.
− this own-initiative report analyses the state of public finances in the economic and monetary union between 2011 and 2012. while advocating the need for further fiscal consolidation through structural reforms and investments that promote growth and financial sustainability, this report urges member states to comply with the budgetary rules proposed in the six pack legislation, the treaty on stability, coordination and governance in the economic and monetary union and the future two pack.
credible commitments to growth-friendly austerity measures are needed to find sustainable solutions to the excessive debt and deficit situations in most euro area member states.
− it is important to ensure a sustainable balance in the finances of the member states, but also to ensure less imbalance and greater budgetary and economic integration, accompanied by greater solidarity between countries.
in this respect, it is urgent to ensure a sustainable balance in the finances of the member states, but also to ensure a lower imbalance and greater budgetary and economic integration, assisted by the solidarity that is at the origin of the eu.
i am voting in favour of this report which aims to put public finances back on a sustainable path, safeguard the need to reduce public deficits through balanced medium- to long-term programmes and improve budgetary coordination and consolidation in the member states generally.
finally, i believe that fiscal austerity measures aimed at balancing public finances must be consistent with measures that actually promote growth and employment, so that budgetary rebalancing is sustainable in the years ahead.
it advocates the implementation of strategy 2020, the reduction of labour taxes for companies (threatening the sustainability of social security), the increase of the retirement age, the linking of wages to productivity, the liberalization of various sectors and the privatization of public enterprises, layoffs in public administration and the extinction of levels of administration (parishes and municipalities).
but this does not remove the need to promote the abolition of some of these funds and financial products, given their worthlessness in meeting the needs and interests of the people and their dangerous and potentially ruinous nature for their lives, given that they involve speculation on sovereign debts, food, energy resources and highly volatile financial products.
but what is necessary and inevitable in the future is to promote the end of these funds and financial products, given their worthlessness in satisfying the needs and interests of the people and their potentially ruinous character for their lives, given that they involve speculation on sovereign debts, on food, on energy resources and on extremely volatile financial products.
the report also allows vessels of less than 12 metres to operate fixed gear within the 10 mile zone and with a submersion time of less than 48 hours, thus contributing to the economic sustainability of small fishing communities.
it is of particular importance that the commission carry out appropriate consultations with the baltic sea regional advisory council and all relevant stakeholders, including at expert level, in order to ensure that the cod stocks in the baltic sea are exploited in a sustainable manner, taking into account economic, social and environmental concerns.
− the main objective of this report is to ensure that the baltic cod stocks are exploited in an environmentally, economically and socially sustainable manner.
i voted in favour of this report because i consider it to be an important element in improving the regulation, management and sustainable exploitation of this baltic sea fishery.
the multiannual plan aims to ensure that the fisheries exploiting cod stocks in the baltic sea are conducted in an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable manner.
the common fisheries policy is aimed at individuals and families - fishermen, businesses and consumers - and must therefore seek to safeguard the interests of all so that they can benefit from fisheries in a satisfactory and environmentally sustainable way.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that technical measures for the conservation of fisheries resources, such as 'minimum landing sizes, minimum mesh size, fishing defence zones and periods, limitation of by-catches, the criterion for using more selective fishing gear and measures to protect the marine environment', should be maintained until the new common fisheries policy of the european union comes into force.
the eu is also responsible for adopting technical measures to ensure the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources, including measures to protect juveniles of marine organisms.
i think it is important to stress that, although they are transitional, these measures are of paramount importance given the objective of ensuring sustainable fishing by preserving endangered ecosystems and species.
the european parliament has called for a specific approach to this very high level of unemployment, and has therefore advocated the creation of specific financial support to combat this trend and to enable young people to play their part in pursuing the main 2020 objectives in the fields of employment, research and innovation, climate and energy, education and the fight against poverty.
− supporting young people in the current economic climate is crucial to boosting not only the economy but also the hope for a better future in which they will be the protagonists.
- i approve this report as i am deeply concerned about the european union's policies in the energy sector.
in my view, the role of cohesion policy and its contribution to the energy sector is vital, as it will make it easier to achieve the europe 2020 objectives and the cohesion objectives themselves in a coherent and productive way, with better coordination of the structural funds and other financial instruments.
the particular interests of member states and regions should be taken into account in order to align them with existing strategies against future energy challenges.
- i voted in favour of the report on the 'role of eu cohesion policy in implementing the new european energy policy' because i believe that coherence between the objectives set out in the energy policy up to 2020 and the objectives of cohesion policy must be strengthened by better coordination of the structural funds and other instruments.
energy issues play a key role in the eusp and can make a significant contribution to regional development.
regions traditionally considered to be lacking in resources, such as mountain areas, can develop if they know how to exploit their endogenous resources, particularly in the field of renewable energy.
in this context, to bring into cohesion policy the intention of completing the internal energy market without barriers can only be a deplorable perversion.
it is a reversal of the logic of the convergence objective, which in no way contributes to the necessary attack on the problem of energy poverty, to which the report itself refers, but which instead emphasises exclusion in access to these services - as the experience of liberalisation in other sectors has shown to the full.
in this context, the importance of the structural and cohesion funds in achieving solidarity objectives between member states, combating energy poverty in the eu's less developed regions and in the most vulnerable households, which the report rightly points out, is unfortunately undermined by this subordination of cohesion policy objectives to european energy policy.
− i agree that cohesion policy should be linked to the europe 2020 objectives and flagship initiatives in order to make progress towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and support the shift towards an efficient and low-carbon economy in all sectors.
the structural funds and the cohesion fund are very important for achieving these short and long-term objectives, in line with the spirit of solidarity between member states enshrined in the lisbon treaty, and for tackling energy poverty in the eu's least developed regions and in the most vulnerable households.
i am sure that european energy projects can contribute to regional development and to the strengthening of crossborder cooperation by helping regions to increase their capacity to manage energy resources.
investment in low-emission and renewable energy sources, energy efficiency and other measures can help support growth and jobs at regional level.
- i voted in favour of this report, which presents a concept of energy at local and regional level.
this is a very important issue, as it is a new dimension of energy policy, essential for the geostrategic interests of the union and for its independence and security.
i agree with the rapporteur that it is important to strengthen municipalities in the field of energy.
we cannot aim for energy performance improvements of 20% without involving all communities in a bottom-up policy rather than a centrally imposed one.
diversification of energy supply, energy efficiency and the expansion of energy infrastructure can all contribute to regional development and the creation of more jobs.
different types of projects are needed for different regions: some require investment in building renovation (to maximise energy efficiency) while others lack basic communication networks (such as gas).
i voted in favour of this report because it stresses the importance of regional authorities in the negotiation of agreements between the commission and the member states for the achievement of a new european energy policy with more effective projects that lead to the achievement of the objectives of cohesion policy, as provided for in article 174 of the treaty of lisbon.
− the european commission has put forward a proposal entitled 'energy 2020 - a strategy for competitive, sustainable and secure energy' which has as its main objective to make the european continent increasingly self-sustaining and energy efficient.
i would point out that energy-related emissions account for almost 80% of total eu greenhouse gas emissions and that, despite the importance of energy policy objectives, there are serious gaps in the implementation of european policies.
i support this report which stresses the need for cohesion policy to be in line with the europe 2020 energy objectives and the seven flagship initiatives, exploiting the potential of research, development and innovation in the energy field.
i also stress the importance of the new connecting europe facility as an additional and complementary instrument of cohesion policy which aims to respond to the high investment needs to modernise and extend europe's energy infrastructure, thus contributing to greater european connectivity and increased energy efficiency.
in this context, to bring the intention of completing the internal energy market 'without barriers' into cohesion policy can only be a deplorable perversion.
it is a reversal of the logic of the convergence objective, which does not contribute in any way to the necessary attack on the problem of energy poverty, which the report itself refers to, but on the contrary emphasizes exclusion in access to these services - as the experience of liberalization in other sectors shows to the full.
in this regard, it is urgent to create stabilising mechanisms that restore the normal financing of member states in financial markets, allow for more healthy and sustainable economic growth and support a stronger and more robust financial system to cope with future crises.
in this regard, it is urgent to create stabilising mechanisms that restore the normal financing of member states in financial markets, allow for more healthy and sustainable economic growth and support a stronger and more robust financial system to cope with future crises.
we need to create the conditions for europe to start a sustainable recovery and thus achieve economic and monetary union.
in this regard, it has become urgent to create stabilising mechanisms that restore the normal financing of member states in financial markets and that allow for more healthy and sustainable economic growth and support a stronger and more robust financial system to cope with future crises.
we have defended and valued the possibility of the existence of origin marking, considering it, among other things, as an instrument for the protection of jobs in europe, an instrument against social and environmental dumping, an instrument, and only this, which does not require a profound change in the economic and trade policies in force, which requires the treatment of some issues relating to the geographical complexity of the production chains, which are in any case not insurmountable.
mr president, commissioner, trade in the abstract can be an instrument of support for development, economic growth and job creation, but it can, conversely, in the case of free and unregulated trade, be a factor of job destruction, economic and social backwardness, environmental destruction.
this is a situation which must be denounced and rejected, for the sake of european farmers, whose incomes are falling and whose production is threatened, but also for the sake of the whole agri-food industry, which benefits from the production of the internal market, and also for the sake of consumers, who have the guarantee of food quality and hygiene, as well as compliance with environmental and animal welfare rules.
the signing of this agreement is part of the imperialist offensive to re-colonize, which, as in iraq, continues to target regions with a high concentration of natural resources, raw materials and energy routes.
in iraq, as in the entire middle east region, imperialism does not hesitate to use the most sordid means to achieve its goals, including terrorist attacks, coups d'état, alliances with obscurantist and neo-fascist forces, the promotion of political-religious powers and various counterrevolutionary forces of different ideological backgrounds - all in accordance with the goal of imperialist domination, redrawing borders and reorganizing sectoral markets, in particular the energy market with its oil and natural gas resources and its transport routes.
the agreement, which is renewable for 10 years, is based on three areas: political, economic and cooperation in the field of social and human development.
the signing of this agreement is part of the imperialist offensive to re-colonize, which, as in iraq, continues to target regions with a high concentration of natural resources, raw materials and energy routes.
in iraq, as in the entire middle east region, imperialism has not hesitated to use the worst instruments to achieve its goals, including terrorist attacks, coups d'état, alliances with neo-fascist forces, the promotion of political-religious powers and various counter-revolutionary forces of different ideological backgrounds all in function of imperialist domination, redrawing borders and reorganizing sectoral markets, in particular the energy market with its oil and natural gas resources and its transportation routes.
however, until the country's path towards sustainable development is consolidated, the suspension of eu development cooperation (under article 96 of the cotonou agreement) should be maintained, although the eu is committed to supporting the zimbabwean people.
it is an agreement aimed at 'supporting regional integration through trade development, sustainable growth and poverty reduction, while promoting the gradual integration of acp economies into the world economy'.
nothing is said about the harmful effects of free trade, the appropriation by multinational companies of natural resources and biodiversity, the increase in unemployment, the weakening of small-scale and family farming and the threats to food sovereignty and security.
under the cotonou agreement, the integration of the acp states into the world economy, the promotion of their sustainable development and the creation of more effective regional markets with predictable and stable standards are the cornerstones of this approach.
i regret, however, the absence of a human rights clause and a chapter on sustainable development and international environmental and labour rights requirements.
like my colleague daniel caspary, i believe that the signing of the interim epa is a necessary step towards sustainable growth in the region and highlights the importance of continuing negotiations towards a comprehensive agreement that will promote trade, investment and integration in the region.
it is an agreement aimed at 'supporting regional integration through trade development, sustainable growth and poverty reduction, while promoting the gradual integration of acp economies into the world economy'.
it is also the beginning of a path that will lead to more sustainable growth in this region, as well as to a future comprehensive agreement that will foster trade, investment and integration in the region.
- i voted in favour of this report in the belief that the interim agreement establishing a framework for an economic partnership agreement between the states of eastern and southern africa and the european union is a necessary step towards sustainable growth in the region and an impetus for the continuation of negotiations towards a comprehensive agreement that will promote trade, investment and integration in the region.
this interim contractual relationship achieves greater legal certainty, which is essential for improving the trade and investment climate in the eastern and southern african states.
in line with the objectives of the cotonou agreement, this interim agreement seeks to promote sustainable development and the creation of more effective regional markets, which can only be achieved by reducing and eventually eradicating poverty through predictable and stable standards.
this will ensure an investment climate conducive to the development of the secondary sector in these countries.
i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution because we must demand that all the european union's trading partners respect minimum social, labour and environmental conditions.
− the establishment of a zone free of weapons of mass destruction is of paramount importance for international efforts to denuclearise and for the creation of a climate of confidence for the peaceful settlement of the middle east conflict.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
finally, i reiterate the importance of respect for democratic principles, fundamental and human rights and the rule of law, as well as environmental and social standards, being an integral part of all trade agreements concluded between the eu and third countries, in order to achieve greater coherence in external actions, reflecting the eu's economic interests while promoting its fundamental values.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
we regret, however, that the commission and the council have rejected the increase in funding considered necessary by the committee on agriculture, which is aimed at the sustainability of agricultural activities and the challenge facing these remote european regions with problems of scale and scope, particularly because the union is in the process of opening up the markets for agricultural products, as provided for by international agreements, which is affecting the production of these regions very strongly.
in addition, i think it is essential to simplify the regulatory instrument and the administrative environment for small and mediumsized enterprises, ensuring adequate protection for workers' needs in the areas of social security and health and safety.
industrial policy must be based on the efficiency of natural resources, including energy efficiency, making industrial activity compatible with sustainable development, but it is also necessary to develop capacities for innovation through education and training, increasing the number of technological scientists and engineers in europe.
one thing they all seem to agree on the current common fisheries policy is a disaster from a social, environmental and economic point of view.
the necessary setting of environmental objectives must be accompanied by the setting of social and economic objectives, which are essential in any fisheries policy.
we need to recover stocks so that there is more fish, but also to value the first sale so that less can be caught and to dignify the profession to develop an entrepreneurship that optimizes resources, that is, we need to accept the challenge of finding a balance between the three pillars of fishing - the environmental, the economic and the social - instead of giving in to the lure of facilitism or the pressure of ngos, to prioritize the environmental and leave the rest for later.
it would be strange and paradoxical if the environmental concerns of the rapporteur and of the socialists in general were not to extend to the interests of the poorer and more fisheries-dependent regions which want to... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i would also like to welcome mr simon coveney to the house, commissioner damanaki, the reform of the common fisheries policy which we are working on will certainly not be the perfect reform but it will be an important step towards a more environmentally sustainable fisheries policy, without neglecting its economic and social dimension.
i think that the proposals on issues such as returns and the maximum sustainable yield, in particular against the gradualness of their implementation, although demanding, are realistic and responsible.
i also support the priority which is intended to be given to multiannual plans adjusted to each fishery... (the president cut off the speaker)
the reform of the cfp represents an opportunity for local management that promotes the sustainability of fisheries resources and the viability of coastal communities dependent on fishing.
in this respect, the creation of the jrc for the outermost regions such as the azores, which helps to promote an ecosystem approach and takes account of the sensitive nature of our specificities, will be very positive.
as with the common agricultural policy as a whole, also with regard to the smaller aegean islands, measures in the agricultural field can and should have social, economic and environmental effects that go far beyond mere food production and intersect with others aimed at promoting the sustainability and development of the populations.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
the rapporteur believes that it is not enough to increase funding: it is necessary to link production aid to a sustainable development strategy and to provide for measures to improve the transport of agricultural products produced or processed on the aegean islands.
i would remind you of the natural apprehension of azorean producers due to the end of milk quotas and the uncertainties about the sustainability of the azorean economy, which is based to a large extent on that production.
imported products from third countries produced without respect for the social and environmental requirements imposed on farmers in the european union are destroying the competitiveness of european regional products, which can only be enforced through quality certification and protected designation of origin (pdo), but never through price.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is necessary to support sustainable agricultural practices in the outermost regions so that these territories can conserve their populations, protect their cultural values and their historical and geographical heritage.
an effective policy to support smes requires the reduction of high interest rates, the cost of factors of production such as energy, transport, communications, and others - which in turn requires public ownership and management of these key sectors of the economy - as well as the establishment of maximum margins to be applied by large companies to smes.
an effective policy to support smes requires the reduction of high interest rates, the costs of production factors such as energy, transport, communications, etc.
we cannot be in favour of the sustainability of the pension system and at the same time advocate the flexibility of the labour market, which means precarious and unstable contracts, which jeopardise that very stability.
will the reductions in social security contributions, as proposed by the commission and endorsed in this report, contribute to the quality of employment and the sustainability of the pension system?
it is done by recognising that sound public accounts are a necessary condition for sustainable growth, and it is done, as has already been done, by using the instruments that the stability and growth pact gives for flexibility.
mr president, commissioner, madam minister, 40 years after the washington convention was signed, it is essential that the parties renew their commitments to 'ensure that trade in wild animals and plants and products derived from them does not endanger the survival of species or constitute a danger to the maintenance of biodiversity'.
regulation and sustainable management of international trade in wildlife contribute to the preservation of biodiversity and to the economic and social well-being of local communities.
the strategic plan for biodiversity 2011-2020, set out in the framework of the convention on biological diversity, provides that by 2020 the extinction of threatened species is to be avoided and that all fish, invertebrate and aquatic plant populations are to be managed in a sustainable and legal manner.
the budget must therefore reflect effective solidarity and foster smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
each company, in its socially responsible decision-making, must take account of the community in which it operates and the environment in which it operates, both at the environmental and social level.
we want a cohesive society and sustainable economic growth.
to this end, it is also crucial to improve the social and environmental transparency of companies.
the support and solidarity of the european union are crucial if, with the necessary adjustment of public accounts, some growth is to be created and the recovery of these countries is to become sustainable.
the coordination of member states' economic and employment policies is part of the europe 2020 strategy to strengthen europe's potential for sustainable growth and competitiveness.
by coordinating these two policies, it will be possible to develop a strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, accompanied by a high level of employment, productivity and social cohesion, as envisaged in strategy 2020. i agree with this report, which i am voting for, and i would stress its importance and its emphasis on one of the most relevant and urgent policies of the union at the moment: employment policy.
− the europe 2020 strategy, launched by the european commission and endorsed by the european council on 26 march 2010, aims to 'strengthen europe's potential for sustainable growth and competitiveness'.
− the europe 2020 strategy enables the union to steer its economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, accompanied by a high level of employment, productivity and social cohesion.
this strategy is based on greater coordination of economic policies and focuses on the key areas where action is needed to strengthen europe's potential for sustainable growth and competitiveness, of which science and innovation are particularly important.
the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that the employment guidelines are to be consistent with the broad economic policy guidelines, each of the above policies being broken down into two separate but intrinsically linked legal instruments, the coordination and implementation of which is to lead to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth of the economy, accompanied by a high level of employment, productivity and social cohesion.
given the current economic situation in the eu and the present need to maintain the employment policy guidelines in order to consolidate the basis for sustainable growth in the union, i voted in favour of the report.
the new regulation should therefore create an ambitious framework to reverse the persistent negative trend and enable the sustainability and success of the european fisheries sector.
the strategy is structured around eight pillars: 1) maximum sustainable yield or msy; 2) obligation to land all catches/no return; 3) a transparent system of individual and collective fishing concessions; 4) reduction of overcapacity; 5) regionalization/consultation of stakeholders; 6) additional stock replenishment measures to oblige member states to close 10 to 20% of their waters to fishing activities within three years; 7) transitional measures for the mediterranean sea; and 8) partnerships with third countries for the purpose of common fisheries management.
i voted against this report because it shows that the environmental aspect is still being prioritised, the social and economic pillars are being underestimated, and i do not agree with the requirements imposed under the msy/msy framework and the law banning discarding.
- i voted in favour of the report on the common fisheries policy, because it includes measures which will contribute to the recovery of stocks, in particular by preventing overfishing and the return of unwanted catches, with a view to improving the environmental, economic and social sustainability of fishing activities.
the european commission has repeatedly stated that the objectives of the common fisheries policy are to protect stocks against overfishing, to guarantee fishermen an income, to ensure that consumers and the processing industry are regularly supplied at reasonable prices, and to exploit living marine resources in a biologically, environmentally and economically sustainable way.
our concern for the sustainability of fisheries resources, the preservation of biodiversity and the guarantee of minimum living conditions for fishing communities was at the heart of our request.
despite the necessary setting of environmental objectives in line with current scientific recommendations, which we have supported, the socioeconomic dimension of fisheries policy is clearly neglected, which will bring obvious damage to small-scale fishing segments and to countries such as portugal where it is very prevalent.
this new basic regulation should help to create an ambitious framework to reverse this situation and enable the sustainability and success of the european fisheries sector.
however, the maximum sustainable yield tax which obliges fishermen to 'ensure that stocks are maintained above levels that can produce the maximum sustainable yield' does not strike the balance that the european people's party would like to ensure for voters.
as an area of exclusive european union competence, the reformed fisheries policy aims at long-term economic, social and environmental sustainability, ensuring a balance between exploiting resources and guaranteeing the quality of life of the population, ensuring the availability of resources and supplying consumers at reasonable prices.
- i approve this proposal, taking into account that the main objective of the commission proposal for a regulation on the noise level of motor vehicles is to protect public health and the environment by implementing measures to reduce the noise level of motor vehicles.
i also support the general approach of the commission proposal, which represents a major step forward in the fight against the harmful effects of noise emissions from motor vehicles on public health and the environment.
− the main objective of this regulation is to protect public health and the environment by implementing measures to reduce the noise level of motor vehicles.
furthermore, since pavement characteristics have a decisive influence on noise emissions, it is advocated that a road classification system be introduced to enable member states and their national and local authorities to better place and assess the surface quality of their roads with a view to reducing their impact on overall noise levels.
− the proposal for a regulation on the noise level of motor vehicles aims to promote the protection of public health and the environment by implementing measures to reduce the noise level of motor vehicles, by updating the limit values for the different categories of vehicles and by introducing a new test method for measuring the level of noise emission in motor vehicles.
the rapporteur proposes a number of technical additions and adaptations to this proposal, with regard to creating incentives for the manufacture and purchase of vehicles with lower noise levels, since excessive noise pollution tends to promote the increase of diseases, disabilities and various disturbances in citizens and should therefore be avoided.
a system of labelling vehicle noise emissions is also proposed, with a view to enabling consumers to make an informed choice before buying, as well as a classification of roads more or less prone to noise generation.
- i voted against the report on 'noise from motor vehicles' because the proposals presented clearly reduce the level of ambition and demand of the commission's legislative proposal, thus falling short of the objective of ensuring a high level of protection of health and the environment.
− the present proposal aims to achieve a high level of protection of public health and the environment through measures to reduce the noise level of motor vehicles, in particular by introducing a new test method for measuring the noise level of motor vehicles and new limit values for the different categories of vehicles, namely light, medium and heavy vehicles.
the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the noise level of motor vehicles has as its main objective the protection of public health and the environment through the implementation of measures to reduce the noise level of these vehicles.
the proposal provides for a gradual reduction in vehicle noise emissions according to the category of vehicle, applying first to new vehicle models and then to all vehicles entering into service.
the commission is also proposing to introduce a system of labelling of vehicle noise emissions so that consumers can make an informed choice, as is already the case with co2 emissions and fuel consumption.
− noise pollution is the harmful effect on public health and the environment caused by sounds at a certain volume exceeding levels considered normal for humans and other animals.
the aim of this proposal for a regulation is to ensure a high level of protection of health and the environment, in particular with regard to the noise level of motor vehicles.
- this proposal for a regulation provides for a gradual reduction in the noise emissions of vehicles according to their category, applying first to new vehicle models and then to all vehicles entering into circulation.
the introduction of a system of labelling of vehicle noise emissions to enable consumers to make an informed choice before purchase is also envisaged.
the labelling already exists for co2 emissions, fuel consumption and tyre noise, and a similar label should now be created for vehicle noise levels.
the commission proposal for a regulation on the noise level of motor vehicles has as its main objective the protection of public health and the environment through the implementation of measures to reduce that noise level.
the proposal for a regulation is based on the need to protect public health and the environment, as motor transport is one of the main sources of noise pollution, the incidence of which tends to increase the number of illnesses, disabilities and various disturbances affecting citizens.
the rapporteur supports the proposal, considering that the regulation would benefit from the introduction of a set of technical additions and adaptations to encourage the manufacture and purchase of vehicles with lower noise levels; the committee also notes the interest of a system of labelling of vehicle noise emissions, with a view to enabling consumers to make an informed choice before purchase.
- this report aims to ensure the protection of public health and the environment with regard to the noise level of motor vehicles by implementing measures to reduce the noise level of motor vehicles.
− noise pollution is the harmful effect on public health and the environment caused by sounds at a certain volume exceeding levels considered normal for humans and other animals.
the aim of this proposal for a regulation is to ensure a high level of protection of health and the environment, in particular with regard to the noise level of motor vehicles.
while most member states have been forced to take more drastic measures to reduce debt and budget deficits in order to put public finances back on a sustainable path, some countries have been so affected that they have had to resort to eu financial assistance mechanisms.
- i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is necessary to ensure the sustainability of fisheries resources and also to ensure that fish stocks are fished sustainably and that the ecosystems in which they live are preserved.
- i voted in favour of the report on the conservation of fishery resources, as it will allow the provisions on transitional technical measures to be extended until a regional framework is adopted, in line with the cfp, with a view to ensuring the sustainability of fishing activities.
the conservation of fisheries resources is essential for the sustainability not only of marine biodiversity but of fisheries as a human activity that generates income and produces societies and individual crops that need to be protected.
to prevent this from happening, we must ensure sustainable management of fisheries resources.
because the european union must be an example to the world, i voted in favour of this report and i believe that fisheries have a future only if they are genuinely sustainable.
for my country, portugal, which has a long tradition in the fisheries sector, it is essential to maintain fishing as a viable and sustainable economic activity.
such measures are designed to ensure the sustainability of fishing activities and are essential to achieving the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp).
technical conservation measures include the establishment of protection zones and periods, limitation of by-catches, minimum mesh size of nets and minimum landing sizes of species, criteria for the use of more selective fishing gear and environmental protection measures.
the council comes here and says that it cannot take a decision, it refers it to the commission, the commission refers, with all due respect, madam commissioner, to the commissioner for climate change, and we hear a representative of the european people's party say that this is only a hungarian problem, when the treaty says exactly the opposite and refers it to the socialists, because the socialists do not speak of romania.
so this agreement covers only about 15% of the world's emissions.
according to a recent united nations study, greenhouse gas emissions levels continue to rise and are 14% above the 2020 targets.
in cancun, it was agreed that developed countries would mobilize $100 billion annually to finance climate action in developing countries until 2020. but it is not clear how this funding will be achieved.
madam president, a few days ago the price of a tonne of carbon reached a new low of 2.82 euros.
any encouragement to switch to low-carbon technologies was even more distant.
according to some analysts, this stimulus would require a carbon price of at least €20 per tonne, seven times higher than the current price.
after the frauds it has allowed and after guaranteeing fabulous profits to the polluters, the carbon market reveals once again its essence: to encourage speculation and business as usual in terms of emissions.
it would be good to hear not only from the commission and the council, but also from all those in this parliament who have defended and defend market solutions and the wonderful emissions trading system: from the right to the social democrats, the liberals and even the greens, who are not grey but very grey.
although the countries included in the second period of kyoto account for only 15% of global emissions, this is an important decision as the kyoto protocol is the only legally binding agreement to combat climate change.
this is an opportunity for the eu to maintain its leading position by drawing up a solid proposal that takes into account not only environmental concerns but also industrial competitiveness and security of energy supply.
will the commission present its position at the next cop in warsaw on what it wants to see included in the durban platform for a sustainable future, reconciling the environmental side, the competitiveness of the economy and the security of energy supply?
he asked what parliament wants to say to the commission and the council when it defines europe's economic policy for 2013. i have put all my energy and effort into finding a clear message, backed by a broad consensus.
studies have already shown the influence of the conditions of a particular place (environment) on the way people mature and age.
- i voted in favour of the report on a 'european innovation partnership for active and healthy ageing', considering it a key project in an ageing europe where it is important to improve the health and quality of life of citizens and to ensure the sustainability and universality of health and social protection systems.
this report is of great importance because it aims to draw the attention of the european commission to pay particular attention to the multidimensional relationship between older populations and their environment as a precondition for the long-term success of the european innovation partnership for active and healthy ageing.
it is necessary not only to adapt the environment in which the population is found, but also to ensure that a whole range of measures and initiatives are taken, both in the regulatory and in the infrastructural field, which allow the integration of the elderly population into society, while ensuring their social well-being.
whereas it is important to put long-term prosperity above short-term economic interests, and whereas it is, in my view, worrying that the exploitation of wild species, illegal trade in wild fauna and flora, destruction of habitats, climate change and human consumption of natural resources are the main causes of the depletion of biodiversity; i therefore call on the european union and the member states to use the precautionary principle as a basic principle for all their decisions on working papers and proposals for registration, taking particular account of the user-pays principle, an ecosystem-centred approach and traditional conservation principles, while the european union and the member states speak with one voice.
news reports often report on the loss of biodiversity, the extinction of species and the unsustainable deterioration of their habitats.
− the motion for a resolution follows the questions for oral answer under rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure on the strategic objectives of the european union (eu) for the 16th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), to be held in bangkok, thailand, from 3 to 14 march 2013. ensuring the conservation of biodiversity is fundamental to the european union's perspective.
the preservation of biodiversity must often take precedence over economic interests.
only in this way will it be possible to guarantee the essential conditions for the preservation of biodiversity.
i believe that we must have a single voice and, given the importance of protecting biodiversity, i am voting in favour of this report.
on the one hand, the process of globalisation and the emergence of 'global' markets favour the development of social and environmental standards by companies; on the other hand, an increasingly attentive and informed society 'demands' that firms behave more responsibly.
i would like to emphasise once again the important role that smes, representing 90% of the european business community and acting at local and regional level, can play in spreading csr and promoting sustainable growth.
the commission and the member states need to support innovative solutions that also enable businesses to address social and environmental challenges, such as smart transport and eco-efficient products, as these services or products are not always easily accessible.
according to this definition, companies should have a set of internal standards that allow them to integrate their social, environmental and ethical concerns into their business operations.
- the present report, by mr raffaele baldassarre, deals with corporate social responsibility (csr), more specifically with responsible and transparent behaviour by companies in order to achieve sustainable growth.
this requires strengthening the links between social responsibility and competitiveness, improving the transparency and effectiveness of social efficiency policies and helping smes not to undervalue their social role but to show them how they can collectively tackle social and environmental problems.
the new definition inherits the concept previously defined by the commission, according to which companies integrate social and environmental concerns into their business activities and interaction with other stakeholders on a voluntary basis.
more than declarations of intent, wish lists and idyllic visions of the world of work, which ignore the sharpening class conflict in it, we need legal instruments that oblige companies to meet their social and environmental responsibilities.
csr, if properly implemented and practised by all enterprises, makes a major contribution to restoring the lost confidence needed for a sustainable economic recovery and can also mitigate the social consequences of the economic crisis.
when companies take responsibility for society, the environment and workers, this creates a win-win situation at all levels, which helps to increase the basis of trust necessary for their economic success.
the same goes for the fact that their responsible behaviour as economic agents is the key to sustainable economic growth.
corporate social responsibility in the european union is a combination of mandatory and voluntary measures, and this combination should prevail as a way of ensuring that the implementation of environmental and social policies is not done by the private sector.
particular attention should be paid to the impact of these same measures on the eu's outermost regions, whose economic and structural environment is already a reduction in their competitiveness.
− the 'new' definition of social responsibility advocated here is the heir to the concept previously defined by the commission that 'companies integrate social and environmental concerns into their business activities and interaction with other stakeholders on a voluntary basis'.
we believe that what is needed today is not a declaration of intent or a wish list and congratulations to 'good companies', but a legal instrument which will oblige companies to fulfil their social responsibilities in the area of the protection of working conditions, health at work and the environment.
i would highlight the ideas recommended in the report for people inside and outside companies to work together to achieve this, such as the launch of corporate citizenship initiatives in the framework of the '2013 european year of citizens', the investigation of the cumulative impact of csr in solving social and environmental problems, in order to highlight the urgency of the challenges and the need for a proposal for a new 'covenant' with civil society.
− we are committed to building a strong and competitive europe, geared towards sustainable growth, in order to consolidate economic recovery.
- corporate social responsibility (csr) can be defined as the set of actions resulting from the awareness of their impact on society at the social, environmental, ethical, human rights, consumer protection level, which companies voluntarily undertake in their current practices and which go beyond their legal obligations to society.
i believe that the current need to restart sustainable growth in europe has highlighted the added value of csr in the eu, demonstrating that restoring confidence in business is vital to restoring confidence in the recovery of the european economy, so i voted in favour of this report.
i would add that we must bear in mind the role and contribution of european companies to sustainable development outside the european area and that in a global economy the chains of production and value are transnational.
i therefore support the rapporteur's suggestion for the inclusion of a clause on social and environmental responsibility in all bilateral trade and investment agreements signed by the eu and the development of concrete proposals for the application of internationally agreed csr principles in the framework of eu trade policy.
according to this definition, companies should have a set of internal standards that allow them to integrate their social, environmental and ethical concerns into their business operations.
- the present report, by mr richard howitt, is about corporate social responsibility (csr), more specifically about promoting the interests of society and the way forward towards a sustainable and inclusive recovery.
finally, i urge the european union and the member states to take action against those exporting countries to europe whose business sector does not respect the three pillars of entrepreneurship: social, economic and environmental.
csr, if properly implemented and practised by all enterprises, makes a major contribution to restoring the lost confidence needed for a sustainable economic recovery and can also mitigate the social consequences of the economic crisis.
when companies take responsibility for society, the environment and workers, this creates a win-win situation at all levels, which helps to increase the basis of trust necessary for their economic success.
this is the path we must take to achieve sustainable growth and to avoid future crises.
three points in particular should be emphasised: (i) the inclusion of the social dimension in the concept of csr, alongside and in the same vein as the traditional environmental dimension; (ii) the importance of establishing and generalizing an obligation for companies to report on the fulfilment of their csr obligations; (iii) the importance of csr in external trade relations and foreign direct investment.
csr is to be considered as an essential component of the concept of social market economy, which characterises the economic order of the european union (in accordance with article 3 (3) of the treaty on european union), and of the concept of sustainable economic, social and environmental development, which is to guide the union's action in external relations (article 21 (2) (d) teu).
it puts corporate social responsibility in the context of the current economic crisis and stresses its indispensable role in restoring confidence in business and in a sustainable economic recovery.
− vat fraud costs national budgets several billion euros annually and in some cases, such as during the period from june 2008 to december 2009, vat fraud in relation to greenhouse gas emission allowances resulted in an estimated loss of five billion euros.
the recommendation is also left to control public spending so that it does not exceed the level of economic growth, to manage excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the member states (deficits and surpluses) and to promote sustainable, environmentally friendly growth, supported by the promotion of a flexible labour market that helps to combat youth unemployment.
the objective of the european semester is not only to ensure the financial stability of the eu, but also to stimulate sustainable growth through reforms, in the framework of the europe 2020 strategy.
in particular, the promotion of sustainable growth and competitiveness, combined with the fight against unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis, the modernisation of public administration, the reduction of national debts without undermining growth and the restoration of normal lending practices to the economy.
− to overcome the crisis, activities and sectors that promote sustainable growth and generate green jobs are needed.
i voted in favour of this report because i also agree with the recommendation that public spending should be controlled so that it does not exceed the level of economic growth, that excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the member states (deficits and surpluses) should be managed and that sustainable, environmentally friendly growth should be promoted, supported by the promotion of a flexible labour market that helps to combat youth unemployment.
it also recommends controlling public spending, managing excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the member states and promoting sustainable, environmentally friendly growth, supported by the promotion of a flexible labour market that helps to combat youth unemployment.
- i am in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that further fiscal consolidation is necessary to achieve sound public accounts and to reduce public debt, since above 90% of debt there will be no sustainable growth.
at the same time, however, member states should introduce the structural reforms needed to avoid future government deficits and to achieve sustainable growth.
call for political union in the member states to take the necessary structural measures which in the short term may have negative effects on the lives of citizens, but which in the medium and long term will bring sustainable growth, based on eu2020.
− to overcome the crisis, activities and sectors that promote sustainable growth and generate green jobs are needed.
- i voted in favour of the report on the governance of the single market, considering that the proper functioning of the single market, balanced from the economic, social and environmental points of view, contributes, within the framework of the european semester, to growth, employment and social cohesion.
the commission is also proposing to introduce a new directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers, which will be adopted by the council on 1 january.
after several debates and recriminations between sectors, member states and individual actors, there is a need for coordination and stronger economic governance at eu level, to be put into practice with the so-called 'european semester' in 2011. in this context, the single market plays a key role for citizens and businesses, as it is considered to be the main driver for the promotion of growth and employment, the single market should serve as a basis for restoring competitiveness and fostering sustainable growth, in line with the europe 2020 strategy.
− the european union is in a period of recovery from the economic crisis, the end of which is not yet clearly in sight, and measures to support strong and sustainable economic growth are needed.
the priorities for action are support for smes, projects in the social, education and cultural fields, and infrastructure, environment and human rights.
− as the european union is in a period of recovery from the economic crisis, with no clear end in sight, there is an urgent need for measures to support strong, assertive, sustainable economic growth with a focus on innovation, the knowledge industry and infrastructure.
the priorities for action are support for smes, projects in the social, education and cultural fields, and infrastructure, environment and human rights.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
i am voting in favour of this report, stressing the importance of the eib in developing innovative financial instruments to support smes, but also in projects in the social economy, health, culture, education, research or innovation, enabling the union to grow in a sustainable and competitive way.
finally, despite the climate of austerity and internal discipline, the union must maintain its action on a global scale through a coherent strategy that balances the political, financial and commercial dimensions.
i welcome the work done by the eib in support of sectors most affected by the cuts made by the member states, such as the cultural sector, the social economy, small and medium-sized enterprises, research, innovation, energy resources and the fight against climate change.
− europe needs to take active measures to increase growth, strengthen innovation capacity, create a knowledge-based industry, scale up investment in infrastructure and networks and strengthen social, welfare and environmental policies.
− in the current economic period of the european union, there is an urgent need for measures to support strong and assertive economic growth, which is sustainable and focuses on innovation, the knowledge industry and infrastructure.
the priorities for action are support for smes, projects in the social, education and cultural fields, and infrastructure, environment and human rights.
this regulation implements measures to create a european energy market.
it comes at a time when it is no longer feasible for member states to close their energy markets in a logic of self-sufficiency and protectionism.
the transformation underway in our energy system requires interdependence at european level as a way of exploiting synergies that create a true european market, allowing the integration of renewables to be accelerated and thus made more sustainable, and generating solidarity and security of supply, avoiding islands and bottlenecks.
the regulation now agreed proposes a boost to the development of energy infrastructure, a meagre investment of five billion from the mff will leverage some two hundred billion in gas and electricity infrastructure by 2020. a set of geographical corridors and priority areas, smart grids, electricity highways, co2 transportation for infrastructure development have been identified.
the selection of projects of common interest shall be made on the basis of criteria in line with the objectives of the european energy policy and shall include a cost-benefit analysis.
in the creation of the european energy market, special emphasis is placed on the elimination of the isolation of certain regions.
we continue to prioritise the financing of energy infrastructure by the market - through network charges, user fees and pragmatic, good regulation, with a decent return and low risk for the investor.
we will evaluate this experience and i am sure that the whole commission will then accept project bonds in the energy sector as a financing instrument for the next few years and project bonds will be issued on a larger scale because they are ultimately a very efficient form of financing.
we look forward to continuing our cooperation with you on energy infrastructure.
secondly, we must take account of our main energy requirement: consumers.
fifthly, we must link these laws and regulations to energy efficiency.
the discussion on transeuropean energy infrastructures cannot be dissociated from the context of liberalisation and privatisation of this strategic sector.
the other side of the coin of the fabulous profits of the industry's economic groups - to whom publicly funded infrastructure is handed over on a platter - is the heavy energy bill imposed on businesses and households and the increase in energy poverty, which is affecting more and more households in europe.
i think this proposal ignores all the priority issues of energy policy in our time.
when we have the problem of scarce resources, we abandon binding targets for renewable energy.
when we have the central problem in europe of lack of growth and job creation, we abandon energy efficiency, which was fundamental to boosting the economy.
when we have the problem of climate change, of sustainable energy, the role of nuclear energy in europe continues to grow, not only to grow, but to grow, even though we are discussing this report two years exactly after the fukushima tragedy.
and finally, when we have such severe situations of energy poverty.
we are talking about all this, but we are betting on the liberalisation and privatisation of energy, leaving the member states no room to define any action in such strategic sectors as this.
having a long-term policy allows us to find our place in the global market of the energy industry and energy efficiency.
all energy policy has a social dimension.
the challenges facing energy systems in the most isolated regions, in particular in the outermost islands, where dependence on fuels is exacerbated by distance and geographical isolation, also need to be addressed appropriately.
in this connection, i would like to make parliament and the commission aware once again of the need to develop more specific approaches in these cases to find the appropriate answers, not only to solve the particular problems they present but above all to be able to expand the full potential of renewable energies, as in the case of the azores, which are already in full development today, even exceeding the targets set by the union for 2020. however, commissioner, they are still faced with an overly standardised energy policy which does not yet respond adequately to them, and this is something we must also address in this energy road map for 2050.
mr president, we strongly disagree with the market approach taken by the european union in the field of greenhouse gas emissions.
the limitations and contradictions of this approach are now clearly visible in the functioning of the carbon market.
we therefore reject the idea that measuring and reporting the carbon flow can in any way feed into this market logic underlying the whole approach to the problem of climate change.
but we recognize the importance of improving our understanding of carbon flows and the role of soils in these processes.
the preservation of this carbon, as well as the study and monitoring of the mechanisms underlying its fixation and its flows, the anthropogenic impacts, are very important.
as such, i hope the council will not waste any more time and finally adopt the equal treatment directive.
- i would like to draw attention to the fact that the outermost regions continue to face an overly standardised energy policy which is not yet adequately responsive to their needs.
it is not only important to solve the particular problems they have, but above all to enable them to expand their full potential for renewable energy, and the definition of matters relating to european energy infrastructures must take this into account.
the plan for this report should take account of the need to integrate peripheral energy markets.
− sustainable, safe and affordable energy is one of the major challenges that unites europeans, from civil society to policy-makers, industry and environmentalists.
the objectives of the european energy policy clearly set targets to be achieved by 2020. these objectives are: (i) 20% reduction in greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions; (ii) 20% of final energy consumption from renewable energy sources; (iii) 20% increase in energy efficiency.
this proposal lays down rules for the timely development and interoperability of the trans-european energy networks in order to achieve the energy policy objectives set out in the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
it is important to ensure the functioning of the internal energy market, to ensure the security of supply of the union and to promote energy efficiency, the development of new and renewable forms of energy, and the combination of energy networks.
the new regulation is a positive and important initiative, as it aims to accelerate the establishment of the internal energy market and deliver concrete results for eu energy policy and climate objectives.
- i voted in favour of the report on 'trans-european energy infrastructures', which presents proposals to strengthen the integration of the internal energy market and to respond to the energy isolation of certain geographical areas, in order to ensure the achievement of the objectives set by the union in terms of competitiveness, security of supply, sustainability and decarbonisation.
− green growth without undermining competitiveness requires a sustainable and consistent energy policy, the proper functioning of the emission allowance market and the development of national projects that contribute to the community's objectives of reducing emissions and increasing energy independence.
it is essential that europe should achieve energy independence, which can only be achieved in two ways: (i) greater diversification of sources which is absolutely necessary in gas; and (ii) increased energy produced in the union.
to achieve this, it is necessary to continue to focus on renewable energy, with particular emphasis on wind power, whose offshore potential may be under-exploited, and to redefine european policy for the exploitation of nuclear energy, while ensuring high standards of safety and reliability.
the report, drawn up by mr antónio fernando correia de campos, concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on guidelines for trans-european energy infrastructures and repealing decision no 1364/2006/ec.
the aim of this regulation is to contribute to the creation of a genuine european energy market supplying some 500 million consumers.
this regulation will encourage further investment in the improvement of energy transport networks, particularly gas and electricity, thus increasing the safety and quality of the service provided to the european consumer.
- this is another step in the definition of the so-called european energy policy, based on the liberalisation of the energy market and the creation of a european energy market.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the private sector.
the intention is to establish a european network for the transport of energy between member states and for supply with the outside world.
funding will be allocated to so-called projects of common interest, limited to projects aimed at europeanisation networks, proposed by energy transmission system operators, which safeguard the common european and international strategic interest.
questions, some of them pertinent, concerning the rationality and security of energy supply are invoked in favour of the implementation of a policy option of liberalization which does not safeguard them.
this is yet another example of how public funds are channeled into investments that the energy monopolies will enjoy, reaping fabulous profits.
member states have to comply with the rules of the european energy market and the guidelines of the european energy policy in order to receive any funding under the mechanism (thus undermining the possibility of public ownership of this strategic sector).
− significant efforts are needed to modernise and extend european energy infrastructure and to interconnect networks across borders in order to meet the union's key energy policy objectives of competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply.
this regulation aims at: fully integrating the internal energy market, in particular by ensuring that no member state remains isolated from the european grid; contributing to sustainable development and environmental protection, enabling the union to meet its targets of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20%; increasing energy efficiency by 20% and achieving a 20% share of energy from renewable sources in final energy consumption by 2020, while ensuring security of supply and solidarity between member states.
- i voted in favour of this report because i believe that sustainable, secure and affordable energy is needed throughout europe, as provided for in the objectives of european energy policy, as enshrined in the treaty of lisbon.
− the completion of the single market also requires the creation of a true trans-european energy network through a concerted energy policy at european level that supports security of supply, sustainability and the decarbonisation of energy sources, thus achieving the union's 2020 objective.
the problems facing the establishment of the energy market are numerous, including obstacles to the development of crossborder infrastructure, too long licensing procedures and lack of investment.
as i come from an outermost region, i tabled several amendments which were included in the document, not only on the isolation of the island and remote regions from the single market, but above all on the potential these regions can offer in terms of renewable energy.
- i approve this report, taking into account the case of the expansion of vienna airport, which according to the investigation started without an environmental impact assessment, and with 27 organisations opposed to this work.
it is on this basis that a group of european citizens have lodged a complaint concerning the process of enlargement and improvement of vienna airport in austria, claiming that an environmental impact assessment has not been carried out.
in the absence of such an assessment, the commission agreed with the austrian authorities not to pursue its infringement procedure, provided that austria carried out an ex post eia which best simulated an ex ante environmental impact assessment (eia) and allowed the full environmental impact assessment of the projects.
− vienna airport started a set of infrastructure improvements in 1999 without consulting the public, thus violating directive 85/337/ec which required an environmental impact assessment (eia).
this special report deals with the commission's handling of a complaint lodged in 2006 by 27 citizens' initiatives against what they considered to be the negative consequences of the expansion of vienna airport, in particular at the environmental level, as no environmental impact assessment (eia) had been carried out for the said project, in particular with regard to noise pollution.
the environmental impact study of vienna airport carried out by the austrian authorities, as a result of an agreement with the commission, has two irregularities which the ombudsman considers to be serious, namely: conflict of interest on the part of the body responsible for the expansion of the airport being the same one responsible for the environmental impact study; and lack of access to the procedure for the review of the study by the public.
i therefore join the rapporteur in stressing the need to review the environmental impact assessment directive in order to avoid similar situations, especially those relating to the existence of conflicts of interest and the inability of the public concerned to access environmental impact assessments and their compliance with existing european legislation.
this special report deals with the commission's handling of a complaint lodged in 2006 by 27 citizens' initiatives against what they considered to be the negative consequences of the expansion of vienna airport, in particular at the environmental level, as no environmental impact assessment (eia) had been carried out for the project.
- i approve this report, considering that all sectors contribute to combating climate change, but that, as late as 1997, when the kyoto protocol was signed, there was no scientific capacity to measure and monitor greenhouse gas emissions from land use, soil changes and forest soils.
today, with the development and scientific progress achieved, it is possible to measure and monitor emissions in this sector.
in this sense, the adoption of these rules, which require monitoring by all member states of soil activities and emissions of greenhouse gases from soil, we can say that the european union's policy package as a world leader in environmental footprint is consolidating its position.
if all other sectors have already been identified and measures taken to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, as far as soil is concerned, its change, use, use should not be put aside but considered equally as all other sectors of activity.
- i voted in favour of the report on 'accounting rules and action plans for greenhouse gas emissions and removals from land use and forestry activities' because it is necessary that the climate change dimension be included in all union policies and that all sectors contribute to the union's efforts to combat climate change.
it is welcome that technical progress now allows us to include emissions accounting more systematically, but also the removal of emissions linked to land use, land reuse and forestry.
agriculture and forestry have a huge potential to contribute to climate change mitigation and adaptation.
portugal has been a pioneer in this area and it is important that the union continues to support projects that allow farmers to be compensated for the provision of the environmental carbon sequestration service, which will be counted towards the member states in the kyoto protocol.
it seems important to me, however, to stress that emissions from natural disturbances are excluded in certain exceptional circumstances, in particular in the case of forest fires.
− accounting for land use, land use change and forestry (lulucf) is a key element of energy policy with the potential to, among other things, contribute to mitigation, adaptation, biodiversity conservation and the sustainable use of natural resources.
lulucf accounting in the european union should be guided by objectives such as: ensuring policy coherence with existing and planned union legislation on future coordination and integration, including but not limited to the common agricultural policy (cap) and the renewable energy directive; and ensuring that accounting practices and methodologies are in line with the accepted principles of transparency, consistency, comparability, completeness and accuracy not only in member states but among them as members of the european union.
− accounting for land use, land use change and forestry (lulucf) contributes to mitigation, adaptation, conservation of biodiversity and sustainable use of natural resources.
member states (ms) should explore actions to reduce emissions and maintain or increase removals from the categories of activities covered in this report.
the european union has a key leadership role to play in climate matters and, where harmonisation is preferable or required, it should seek understanding among its member states.
− this decision establishes accounting rules for anthropogenic greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions and removals resulting from land use, land use change and forestry (lulucf) activities.
these rules are intended to be a first step towards the inclusion of these activities in the eu's commitment to reduce emissions as defined in the kyoto protocol and the united nations framework convention on climate change.
it also establishes an obligation for member states to provide information on their lulucf actions to limit or reduce emissions and to maintain or increase removals of carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide and methane.
member states shall prepare and maintain accounts accurately reflecting all emissions and removals resulting from activities carried out on their territory and falling under the categories of afforestation, reforestation, deforestation, forest management.
despite our disagreement in principle on the eu's approach to climate change and in particular to emissions trading, we believe that what is at stake here is the collection and reporting of information useful in supporting public policy making.
the european union should seek to find ways of reducing emissions whilst at the same time allowing highly productive land use to continue.
farming and forestry are the only economic sectors that naturally sequester carbon in soils and biomass during the production process.
the european agricultural model and sustainable forest management take full advantage of the natural capacity for sequestration and storage.
to exploit the full mitigation potential of both sectors, scientific knowledge and monitoring methods need to be improved in order to increase confidence in greenhouse gas emissions inventories linked to forestry and agricultural soils.
- i voted in favour of this report because i consider the regulation on a mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions (ghg) to be of vital importance, since all this monitoring and control will provide member states with more and better information, giving them tools to see if they are on track to meet the objectives set and allowing the creation of different and technically sound policies to combat climate change.
- land use accounting, land use change and forestry (lulucf) is a key element of energy policy.
the commission proposal, as amended by the rapporteur, aims to include lulucf sectors in efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the eu and to ensure complementarity between union policies by establishing robust accounting rules for emissions and removals from lulucf activities.
like the rapporteur, i agree with the european commission's position, as i believe that it is necessary to establish sound and comprehensive accounting rules for the lulucf sector and to enable future policy development with a view to the full inclusion of the lulucf sector in the union's commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
i believe that the existence of such a legal framework will contribute to the development of a more sustainable and efficient european energy and environmental policy, and in view of this i voted in favour of the report.
− this decision establishes accounting rules for anthropogenic greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions and removals from land use activities.
these rules are intended to be a first step towards the inclusion of these activities in the eu's commitment to reduce emissions as defined in the kyoto protocol and the united nations framework convention on climate change.
it also establishes an obligation for member states to provide information on their lulucf actions to limit or reduce emissions and to maintain or increase removals of carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide and methane.
despite our disagreement in principle on the eu's approach to climate change and in particular to emissions trading, we believe that what is at stake here is the collection and reporting of information useful in supporting public policy making.
- i approve this report, as it aims to improve the monitoring system for greenhouse gas emissions in order to meet the european union's international commitments and obligations and not to jeopardise future international climate change agreements, not to mention the fact that this is required by the requirements of the climate and energy package.
i therefore support this report which supports the development of climate change adaptation and mitigation instruments at european union level.
in my view, it is important to monitor the evolution of these commitments with transparent and comparable data on greenhouse gas emissions, to know whether the european union and its member states are on track to meet environmental objectives and to develop new and more robust policies against climate change.
- i voted in favour of the report on the 'mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions and other relevant information on climate change' because, if the european union is to meet the greenhouse gas emission reduction targets it has set not only internally but also internationally, under the united nations framework convention on climate change and the kyoto protocol, reliable, accurate and comparable data are needed, which will enable us to assess the way forward and to develop and implement appropriate climate policies.
− in order to establish harmonised reporting requirements for greenhouse gas emissions monitoring and other information relevant to climate change policy, the power to adopt acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu should be delegated to the european commission.
the objectives of this regulation, namely the establishment of a mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions and for reporting other relevant information at national and union level in relation to climate change, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the member states.
− the regulation on a mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions (mmr) replaces the mechanism established under decision no 280/2004/ec.
this mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions is essential for reliable and accurate greenhouse gas emissions data to be available in a timely manner.
this data is crucial to whether the european union (eu) and its member states (ms) are on track to meet the objectives set and to create new and robust policies to address the challenge of climate change.
the improvements set out in this report are intended to assist member states in implementing the climate and energy package; to improve the timeliness, transparency and comparability of data reported; to ensure compliance by the union and its member states with international monitoring and reporting obligations; and to facilitate the establishment of new community instruments to combat climate change.
− this regulation establishes a mechanism to ensure the timeliness, transparency, accuracy, consistency, comparability and completeness of the information reported by the eu and its member states to the secretariat of the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc), by providing for the reporting and verification of information on commitments under the unfccc and the kyoto protocol and decisions taken thereafter and progress made towards meeting those commitments.
the mechanism provides for the monitoring of all anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of all greenhouse gases (ghgs) not controlled by the montreal protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer in the member states.
also included are reports on carbon dioxide (co2) emissions from shipping, use of revenues generated from the auctioning of emission allowances, and other information.
despite our disagreement in principle on the eu's approach to climate change and in particular to emissions trading, we believe that what is at stake here is the collection and reporting of information useful in supporting public policy making.
- i agree to improve the monitoring and reporting system to ensure compliance with the obligations and commitments undertaken by the union and the member states under current and future international agreements on climate change, reflecting the obligations arising from the united nations framework convention on climate change, the kyoto protocol and subsequent decisions adopted under these instruments with regard to greenhouse gas emissions and financial and technological support to developing countries.
− the timely provision of reliable and accurate greenhouse gas emissions data is essential to know whether the european union and the member states are delivering on the targets set and to create concrete and efficient policies to meet the challenge of climate change that is and will be occurring in europe.
given the growing importance of addressing the challenge of climate change and taking into account the socioeconomic consequences that it entails for the eu, i support the european commission's proposal as it aims to: assist member states in implementing the climate and energy package; improve the compliance with deadlines, transparency and comparability of reported data; ensure compliance by the union and its member states with international obligations in the field of monitoring and reporting, in particular reporting on support to developing countries; and facilitate the creation of new community instruments to combat climate change.
i believe that the proposals put forward will enable the eu to act as a single agile body in combating and implementing concrete measures with regard to climate change.
− this regulation establishes a mechanism to ensure the timeliness, transparency, accuracy, consistency, comparability and completeness of the information reported by the eu and its member states to the secretariat of the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc), by providing for the reporting and verification of information on commitments under the unfccc and the kyoto protocol and decisions taken thereafter and progress made towards meeting those commitments.
the mechanism provides for the monitoring of all anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of all greenhouse gases (ghgs) not controlled by the montreal protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer in the member states.
- i voted in favour of the report on the association of the overseas countries and territories with the european union, because i consider that the renewal of the overseas association decision is essential to promoting the social and economic development of the octs and their economic relations with the eu, in particular by strengthening cooperation in areas such as tourism, agriculture and sustainable transport.
situated in the atlantic, indian and pacific oceans, or in the caribbean, they are in direct contact with the new challenges that europe is also facing, such as the globalisation of trade, new environmental challenges and the risks associated with climate change.
situated in the caribbean and the indian, atlantic and pacific oceans, they are in direct contact with the new challenges that europe is also facing, such as the globalisation of trade, new environmental challenges and the risks associated with climate change.
in this respect, it is necessary to ensure their sustainable development.
− citizens' access to drinking water is a major concern of policies in the fields of human health and environmental protection.
it is recommended that the polluter pays principle be followed for the costs of sampling and monitoring in the event of artificial pollution.
member states should ensure that consumers have access to transparent information on the potential risks of radioactive contamination of drinking water and share good practices to strengthen controls on these substances and on radioactive waste in general.
access to drinking water is a major concern in the fields of human health and environmental protection.
i therefore agree with the amendment of the legal basis for the relevant provisions relating to environmental protection, namely article 192 (1) of the treaty of lisbon.
the legal basis for the article on the environment and public health in the tfeu is to be amended on the basis of the precautionary principle and preventive action, which seems to us to be correct.
the legal basis for the article on the environment and public health in the tfeu is to be amended on the basis of the precautionary principle and preventive action, which seems to us to be correct.
the need for sound public finances is emphasised as a means of strengthening the conditions for price stability and strong sustainable growth supported by financial stability in order to achieve the union's objectives of sustainable growth and employment.
the reference to strong sustainable growth, supported by financial stability, with a view to achieving the european objectives of combating unemployment and economic growth deserves a positive reassessment.
monopolies in key sectors such as energy and telecommunications continue to impose unbearable prices on smes.
monopolies in key sectors such as energy and telecommunications continue to impose unbearable prices on smes.
social enterprises need sustainable growth based on innovation, and solidarity investment is already very significant in some member states.
i welcome the adoption of this regulation and the creation of european venture capital funds, as i believe they are essential for the financial sustainability of companies pursuing social objectives, by supporting and creating links with the most vulnerable people, such as the elderly, the disabled, children and all citizens at risk of social exclusion.
i am voting in favour of this report which establishes the 'social entrepreneurship initiative building an ecosystem to promote social enterprises at the heart of the economy and social innovation', thus ensuring uniform criteria for identifying social enterprises as eligible portfolio enterprises, defining the support granted to entrepreneurs and improving the social protection and inclusion of specific groups.
however, more than policies to eliminate the inequalities caused by the crisis, we must fight for transversal european policies to overcome the crisis, for sustainability, for controlling public deficits and debts and for sustained growth.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
− i welcome the intention of this report, which is to respond to the commission's communication on ways to enhance the implementation of european environmental legislation in order to improve the state of the environment and reverse negative trends that are taking us away from sustainability.
i would stress the importance of improving the methods of collecting information on the state of the environment through more efficient information systems at member state level and at the level of the european union itself.
− the ineffective enforcement of eu environmental legislation harms the environment and human health, creates insecurity for industry and obstacles to the single market, as well as more red tape and consequently higher costs.
according to european commission figures, the non-application of eu environmental legislation currently costs the eu €50 billion per year in direct health and environmental costs.
on the other hand, it is estimated that the full implementation of eu waste legislation alone will save 400 000 jobs and €72 billion a year.
in this respect, member states should take all necessary measures to preserve the environment and promote sustainable development, while taking into account the need for a healthy and competitive economy.
the commission, as guardian of the treaties, should intervene earlier to allow for more appropriate and timely implementation and should examine what is necessary to ensure the correct transposition, application and enforcement of environmental legislation.
− a high level of environmental protection is one of the eu's fundamental objectives and brings direct benefits to citizens.
as such, it is unacceptable that there is an unsatisfactory level of implementation of environmental legislation by member states, either because it is late, or insufficient, or excessive.
this has led to a multiplication of the number of infringements and complaints in this area, which was the area where the highest number of infringements of community legislation was recorded in 2011 (17%) it has a negative impact on the environment in the eu, but also carries with it very high costs.
the current lack of enforcement of the legislation implies an annual expenditure of some eur 50 million in health and direct environmental costs.
a more systematic and holistic approach is therefore needed to contribute to the timely and cost-effective enforcement of environmental legislation.
we need clear, coherent environmental legislation without gaps or duplication, and we also need greater coordination and complementarity.
we also need the commission, as guardian of the treaties, to play its part and to intervene more rapidly to ensure the correct and timely transposition, application and enforcement of environmental legislation.
- i voted in favour of the report on 'making the most of eu environmental measures' because more effective application of the eu environmental acquis will reduce costs for society in the long term and create new investment opportunities.
the commission should also set up an inspection unit to support the competent national bodies in solving problems of transposition or infringement of eu environmental laws.
the lack of accurate information and knowledge on the state of implementation, as well as quantitative data in various environmental sectors, often impedes the proper implementation of environmental legislation.
the annual cost of non-enforcement of eu environmental legislation currently stands at €50 billion per year in health expenditure and direct environmental costs, not including negative environmental impacts in the eu.
if nothing is done, this annual expenditure will increase to 90 billion euros per year from 2020. it is therefore important that the eu and the member states in particular take the necessary measures to preserve the environment and promote sustainable development, while taking into account the need for a healthy and competitive economy.
- this report, amongst some more innocuous paragraphs, puts forward issues which we consider to be timely, such as the need for a better flow of information and increased transparency through more active and frequent exchanges between member states, or the need for clear, coherent and non-duplicative environmental legislation, which avoids the existence of gaps.
it also stressed that a high level of environmental protection was an added value for people, in particular in terms of better living conditions, air quality, less noise and better health.
but we cannot help but note that some of the eu environmental measures referred to in the report, which are based on legitimate concerns for the protection of the environment and human health, end up providing solutions based on the assumptions of the commodification of the environment and natural resources, which we reject.
− member states should take all necessary measures to preserve the environment and promote sustainable development, while taking into account the need for a healthy and competitive economy.
local communities should have an important say in deciding on the best balance between the needs of people and the needs of their environment.
- i voted in favour of this report as it provides some guidance on how member states and european citizens can best take advantage of eu environmental measures so that they can maximise the expected positive impacts, in particular on job creation and the waste management economy (estimated to create 400 000 jobs and save eur 72 billion annually).
it also called on the member states to take all necessary measures to preserve the environment and promote sustainable development, while taking into account the need for a healthy and competitive economy and involving the local communities in this preservation.
it also considers that ineffective enforcement is damaging to the environment and human health and that the unsatisfactory level of enforcement of environmental legislation has resulted in a high number of infringements and complaints in this area.
the present report therefore aims, inter alia, to promote the exchange and dissemination of good practice in this field and the creation of an environmental law inspection unit in order to reduce the associated administrative costs and to facilitate the environmental legislation process for the member states.
− the cost of not implementing european environmental legislation is around €50 billion per year, with the majority of these costs associated with the impact on the health of european citizens.
i join the rapporteur in calling for the need to simplify and facilitate administrative procedures relating to the implementation of the legislation, the need to promote transparency and publicity of administrative procedures relating to the environment and the need to ensure easy access to 'environmental justice' for citizens.
i recognise that access to environmental justice also involves the role that judges and prosecutors must play actively in the performance of their duties and therefore must have specific training in environmental matters.
it should also be noted that the correct application of environmental legislation implies that local and regional authorities have the funds and technical means to monitor it.
− important issues are raised here, such as the need for better information flow and increased transparency through more active and frequent exchanges between member states, or the need for clear, coherent and non-duplicative environmental legislation that avoids gaps.
the report also stresses that a high level of environmental protection is an added value for people, in particular in terms of better living conditions, air quality, less noise and better health.
for this greening we have confirmed the common measures: the diversification of crops, the maintenance of permanent meadows, the creation of ecological interest areas.
we have introduced aspects of the european framework which make it possible to reduce the bureaucracy involved in implementing these measures, without prejudice to environmental objectives and to the benefit of farmers and national administrations in terms of reducing costs.
i would also stress the obligation to set aside 25% of each member state's rural development budget for organic farming and agri-environmental measures.
finally, we cannot accept that the cap regresses by a decade in environmental practices by virtually eliminating cross-compliance.
mr president, the proposals for reform of the cap which we have discussed here insist on a market-oriented and competitive model which devalues and compromises food sovereignty and food security and the sustainability of agricultural production, and will not solve problems but create others.
i would therefore like to draw your attention to some of the alternative proposals we have put forward: the introduction of quota schemes tailored to the needs of each country and its relative level of production capacity, allowing differentiated development of the countries with the highest deficits; convergence of direct payments between member states by 2020 at the latest; modulation and capping of direct aid, limiting aid to the largest beneficiaries and redistributing it, benefiting in relative terms small and medium-sized producers and sustainable production; the establishment of a national preference scheme; the introduction of a maximum intermediation margins scheme, in order to promote a fair and adequate distribution of added value along the food supply chain; the creation of a public agricultural insurance funded by the european union budget.
the important thing is that the common agricultural policy remains true to its raison d'être: to ensure food in quantity, quality and diversity, guaranteeing food security for all europeans; to learn from past mistakes, becoming environmentally sustainable, adapting production to markets, guaranteeing a fair income to the producer and boosting all rural life; and to prepare for the challenges of the future by becoming more equitable, simple, transparent and competitive.
we have information from a study which points to the sustainability of the milk sector in only two member states after the end of quotas.
some of our differences have been exposed here, but in particular the enormous convergence we have on the need for a strong cap in the future, which reconciles competitiveness with sustainability, which contributes to solving the problems of our time, and of course climate change, and which ensures the economic and social vitality of rural areas.
and this implies not only that we confirm all the commitments that have been made but also how we can go a little further on the more controversial issues which are the question of double funding, which parliament cannot accept, the question of transparency on which we have to be very firm and uncompromising and the question of the reintroduction of cross-compliance to further strengthen the environmental component of this reform.
finally, i believe it is important to strengthen solidarity between member states and to make europe more competitive and sustainable in the global economy.
we all said then - parliament, commission, council - that the implementation of the new neighbourhood policy was based on mutual accountability and a common commitment to the universal values of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, the market economy and sustainable and inclusive development.
the constitutional process, instead of bringing political forces together on the necessary reforms, has created a climate of tension, violence and sectarianism that is not conducive to the holding of transparent elections in 2013. the european union must send a clear and coherent message to president morsi and other leaders of the egyptian people that building democracy implies the participation of all political forces in the major decisions for the transition.
the best way to do this in the long term is to promote a political solution, which will only be possible if we do not participate in the ongoing foreign intervention in syria, that is, if we do not support the training and arming of terrorists who are dedicated to destroying, attacking and looting public buildings, attacking energy infrastructure and kidnapping citizens.
financial regulation and global economic governance, sustainable development and climate change are also areas requiring synergistic cooperation between the european union and china.
moreover, it is in our interest and in the interest of european companies to persuade our chinese partners to change the way they have been interacting with developing countries in trade and economic terms, which is not consistent with the promotion of human rights, the rule of law, transparency, environmental protection, etc., and sustainable development.
we cannot promote these values effectively and we cannot make our companies competitive in a responsible way if there is a chinese alternative devoid of democratic oversight and of political, ethical and environmental concerns.
in the face of new sustainability challenges, social protection systems in the member states have a key role to play: the question of the social economy.
the strength and importance of mutuality derives from its strong local roots, from the level of proximity responses it achieves, adapted to the environment in which it is embedded, and which are its true raison d'être and the main reason for its success.
it is therefore necessary to increase investment in acp countries, in particular in the areas of gender equality, health care and education, while ensuring compliance with environmental and social standards and respect for human rights.
in order to ensure the coherence of the union's action, i urge the eu to impose a number of environmental and social standards on companies wishing to obtain public contracts financed by the edf in the acp countries.
i therefore stress the importance of substantially increasing their investment in innovation, research and development, infrastructure and youth support, while also meeting the eu's climate change and energy objectives, improving education levels and promoting social inclusion.
− the negotiations on the mff for 2014-2020 are taking place in a very adverse social, economic and financial context, in which member states are making considerable efforts to adjust their national budgets with a view to the sustainability of public finances and the stability of the banking sector and the single currency.
union expenditure should be mobilised to support sustainable growth, employment and competitiveness in line with the europe 2020 strategy.
the alternative is to break with current eu policies and to really address the problems of sustainable economic growth, unemployment, poverty, social exclusion and inequalities.
the alternative is to break with current eu policies and to really address the problems of sustainable economic growth, unemployment, poverty, social exclusion and inequalities.
with the accession of croatia and the number of meps reaching 766, there is a need to reduce the number of seats in the european parliament by 15. in my view, a well-thought-out reform of the composition of parliament, including a sustainable and transparent method of calculating seats based on the principle of degressive proportionality, must go hand in hand with a comprehensive reform of voting procedures in the council at the future convention after the 2014 elections.
the importance of measures providing for the subordination of basic payments to compliance with certain environmental standards (eco-conditionality), the possibility of additional payments in compliance with agricultural practices beneficial for the climate and the environment, the reduction of discrepancies between the levels of payments in different regions and countries, and the publication of the list of beneficiaries of agricultural aid should be emphasised.
the new legislative framework for 2014-2020 provided a further opportunity to improve this situation and to make the cap a policy that effectively serves farmers, the environment and rural development.
environmental sustainability, the defence of small farmers are strengthened.
− in the current discussion on the cap post-2013 the cap is being asked to make the necessary adjustments (by redefining its objectives and at the same time the means to achieve them) so that european agriculture is able to reconcile food security (forecasts indicate a need to increase crop and animal production by around 70% by 2050 to cope with the increase in the world population, rising income levels and the fight against hunger in the world) with environmental sustainability (while ensuring the conservation of biodiversity, sustainable management of natural resources, mitigation and adaptation to climate change, enhancing the value of rural landscapes and contributing to the economic and social vitality and cohesion of rural territories).
the commission has also proposed that the member states should define 'active farmer' as a term, that support for young farmers should be compulsory, that a simplified scheme for small farmers be introduced, that transfers between pillars be made more favourable, that the southern countries be given a more favourable environment, in particular by excluding permanent crops from the rotation requirement and by increasing direct payments from 10% to 15%.
these legal proposals were announced following the commission communication on the cap for 2020, which outlined a number of possible policy options to respond to the future challenges of agriculture and rural areas and to meet the objectives set for the cap, in particular with regard to viable food production, sustainable management of natural resources, action against climate change, and balanced territorial cohesion.
i am pleased that the commission has taken the necessary steps to adjust the 2,300 amendments, and i voted in favour of the decision to open negotiations and the negotiating mandate, which agrees with the need for greater guidance and a better distribution of payments, and makes the environmental measures mandatory but flexible, particularly in support of young farmers in europe.
i support the decision taken by the assembly of which i am a member and believe that a strong cap with an adequate budget is needed so that the european union can produce the necessary quantity and variety of high-quality food at any time and contribute to promoting employment, the conservation and production of environmental goods, combating climate change and territorial management.
the new legislative framework for 2014-2020 provided a further opportunity to improve this situation and to make the cap a policy that effectively serves farmers, the environment and rural development.
− in the current discussion on the cap post-2013 the cap is being asked to make the necessary adjustments (by redefining its objectives and at the same time the means to achieve them) so that european agriculture is able to reconcile food security (forecasts indicate a need to increase crop and animal production by around 70% by 2050 to cope with the increase in the world population, rising income levels and the fight against hunger in the world) with environmental sustainability (while ensuring the conservation of biodiversity, sustainable management of natural resources, mitigation and adaptation to climate change, enhancing the value of rural landscapes and contributing to the economic and social vitality and cohesion of rural territories).
the rejection of the extension of milk quotas until 2020 is the most important aspect of this report and one which seems to me to be particularly worrying for the sustainability of the milk sector in portugal after 2015.
in writing.
in order to help farmers adapt to market fluctuations, support measures should continue to be implemented while maintaining and developing the economy of rural areas and balancing the need to ensure competitiveness with the need to preserve the environment.
- i voted in favour of the report on the 'decision opening and mandating interinstitutional negotiations on support for rural development by the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) ' for including proposals which will support the development of rural economies and communities and create more jobs through measures which provide for more sustainable management of resources and which will, at the same time, contribute to the union's objectives in combating climate change.
the new legislative framework for 2014-2020 provided a further opportunity to improve this situation and to make the cap a policy that effectively serves farmers, the environment and rural development.
the proposal for a decision brings together many contributions to the achievement of a strong common agricultural policy (cap) which reconciles environmental problems with the economic sustainability of the sector, thus improving living conditions in rural areas.
i welcome the dynamisation of rural areas through new incentives to diversify and retain young farmers, as well as support for organic farming and agri-environmental measures.
- the second pillar of the cap is an important pillar for farmers, since it is essential in its various aspects, in particular for their positioning on the market, but also for the maintenance and management of agricultural and forestry holdings as a source of biodiversity, of environmentally friendly systems, which are a huge asset that must be supported, thus constituting the 2nd pillar of the cap as a key element in the 'business' of agricultural and forestry activity, and should therefore be recognised and operated as such.
the provisions to support environmental projects are also improved and the current cooperation measure is significantly strengthened and extended to support a wide range of types of cooperation (economic, environmental and social).
the eafrd should contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy within the framework of a european strategy for rural development by promoting sustainable rural development throughout the union, in complementarity with other instruments of the common agricultural policy and in a coordinated and complementary manner with cohesion policy and the common fisheries policy.
to stress the importance of the measures which prevented the possibility of double payments and the suspension of payments in cases of non-compliance with european environmental and animal welfare legislation.
the new legislative framework for 2014-2020 provided a further opportunity to improve this situation and to make the cap a policy that effectively serves farmers, the environment and rural development.
− in the current discussion on the cap post-2013 the cap is called upon to make the necessary adjustments (by redefining its objectives and at the same time the means to achieve them) so that european agriculture is able to reconcile food security (forecasts indicate a need to increase crop and animal production by around 70% by 2050 to cope with the increase in the world population, rising income levels and the fight against hunger in the world) with environmental sustainability (while ensuring the conservation of biodiversity, sustainable management of natural resources, mitigation and adaptation to climate change, enhancing the value of rural landscapes and contributing to the economic and social vitality and cohesion of rural territories).
− the outermost regions continue to face an overly standardised energy policy which does not yet respond adequately to them, which must be considered in this energy roadmap to 2050 under discussion in the eu.
in these cases, therefore, more specific approaches need to be developed with posei-type own programmes to find the appropriate answers, not only to solve the particular problems they present but above all to be able to expand the full potential of renewable energies, as in the case of the azores, which are already in rapid development, even exceeding the targets set by the union for 2020. the outermost regions also have characteristics that can make them a reference in the fight against climate change and adaptation to its effects.
the azores are already exploiting their endogenous resources to produce geothermal, wind, solar, hydro, biomass and marine energy.
− the energy roadmap 2050 is of crucial importance for the future of europe.
the well-being of europeans, as well as the prosperity of european businesses and the european economy, depend on secure, sustainable and affordable energy, and it is necessary to ensure the eu's energy security through alternative energy sources by reducing dependence on imports.
the current energy system and the ways of producing, processing and consuming it appear unsustainable in the future due to high greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions, security of supply risks and competitiveness risks related to high energy costs and lack of investment.
the aim is therefore to reduce emissions by more than 80% by 2050, while improving competitiveness and security of supply in europe.
member states need to work together to coordinate efforts within a wider framework, defining a long-term european strategy for the energy sector.
- i voted in favour of the report on the 'energy roadmap 2050' because an energy policy is needed to meet the challenges of sustainability and competitiveness, setting precise long-term targets to enable the necessary transition to a low-carbon economy to be achieved.
- the energy question is becoming increasingly important.
the exponential increase in energy consumption over the last century has led to some of the world's reserves becoming exhausted and has led to the search for alternative energy sources that could meet the needs of modern societies.
the earthquakes caused by climate change, which are caused by the increase in the average temperature of the planet due to the greenhouse effect caused by carbon dioxide (co2) emissions, also aggravate the problem.
the report by my colleague niki tzavela on the 'energy roadmap 2050: a future with energy' points the way forward for european energy policy towards a cleaner future.
to do this, all countries need to implement a policy of reducing carbon emissions.
the balance between energy production and the environment is fundamental.
renewable energy sources (wind, photovoltaic, wave, geothermal, etc.)
with residual impacts on the environment should therefore be promoted.
i voted in favour of this report because it proposes a set of measures which not only promote energy efficiency above pre-established values so as to reduce our dependence on the outside world, but also guarantee security of supply by building smart grids and by keeping the price for consumers down.
− the eu energy roadmap 2050 calls for centralisation of national energy policies, aiming at the creation of a european energy community based on privatisation and liberalisation of the energy market.
this extensive report covers the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, global energy challenges and the emissions trading scheme, and the agenda of the industry's monopoly groups.
on the one hand, the report points to important concerns such as energy efficiency and renewable energy.
but on the other hand, national energy sectors are being pushed towards privatisation and liberalisation, in the logic of 'competitive access to energy resources'.
what is needed is to defend a public energy sector, public ownership and management of this sector, with energy prices accessible to the population and maintaining sovereignty in the definition of energy strategies, which is very important for the economy of each member state.
- although i attach great importance to the energy roadmap 2050 initiative, i chose to abstain in the vote on this report because i consider nuclear safety to be a key issue in the eu.
− the variety of geographical conditions makes it impossible to apply the same energy policy to all regions, so that, without forgetting the criteria for common action and aware of the need to respect the eu policy frameworks, each european region must be able to follow an individual plan adapted to its situation and economy, developing the energy sources most likely to achieve the objectives of the roadmap.
in particular, it should be taken into account that renewable energy production plays a key role in terms of development and employment in rural and non-rural areas, and all regions are therefore invited to develop and implement energy strategies and to consider including energy in their research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation.
on the basis of this expertise, the eu should measure european energy targets at eu level, rather than national targets.
− this motion for a resolution assesses the energy roadmap 2050, which will serve as a basis for future legislative initiatives on energy policy.
the creation of an ambitious and stable regulatory and legislative framework is essential to guide member states in pursuing common objectives such as security of supply, competitive prices and energy efficiency.
this european energy community is governed by the political objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels.
energy policies should be designed from the bottom up, with action scenarios that take into account the potential in the member states.
in order to meet the security of supply targets, it is necessary to reduce the dependence on energy imports from third countries.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electricity from renewable sources, such as wind and solar energy, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of renewable energy sources such as wind and solar energy.
− the competitiveness of the european economy, especially industrial activities, requires the development of appropriate energy policies and instruments to improve europe's ability to compete on a global scale with other nations.
i welcome this report because it encourages increased security of energy supply through increased diversity of sources and a reduction in imports of energy at volatile prices, leading to higher energy efficiency and more competitive prices.
i believe that the energy future of the european union and the consequent achievement of the climate objectives must be reconciled with the specificities of the local and regional level.
i therefore urge the european commission to promote genuine decentralised management, with greater involvement of the regions, particularly the outermost regions, which end up having the greatest energy difficulties.
− important concerns such as energy efficiency and renewable energy are highlighted here, but on the other hand it is confronted with many internal contradictions, in particular when national energy sectors are pushed towards privatisation and liberalisation, while at the same time it is said that energy must be accessible to all and that energy poverty must be tackled.
we all know what has led to the liberalisation of this sector within the framework of the single market - which is here defended as a sacrosanct entity in the energy roadmap 2050 - the creation of transnational monopolies by the most powerful countries exploiting the consumer markets of the economically weaker countries, accumulating fabulous profits, while energy prices for consumers and small and mediumsized enterprises are rising to unbearable levels.
the report also mentions the global energy challenges and the emissions trading scheme, which has proved to be a speculative market in the price of carbon emissions, cloaked in the promise of a reduction in carbon dioxide that has never happened but has already generated millions.
we stand for a public energy sector, owned and managed by the state, with energy prices accessible to the population and maintaining sovereignty in the definition of energy strategies.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of radioactive waste.
although some consider nuclear energy to be the energy of the future because of its contribution to reducing co2 emissions, the seriousness of the accidents at chernobyl and fukushima is proof that it is not completely safe.
the safety of people, workers, public health and the environment are at stake.
the safety of people, workers, public health and the environment are at stake.
- we are concerned about the growing and unacceptable climate of racism, xenophobia and hate crimes in europe.
- we are concerned about the growing and unacceptable climate of racism, xenophobia and hate crimes in europe, particularly when these phenomena demonstrate their intrinsic character in the deepening of neoliberal policies which destroy important social rights and gains, increase insecurity and degrade the living conditions of workers and peoples.
the risks of irreversible damage to humans and the environment are simply too great.
the risks of irreversible damage to humans and the environment are simply too great.
the risks of irreversible damage to humans and the environment from exposure to endocrine disruptors are too serious.
since the genes have not changed in such a short period of time, this increase can only be explained by external environmental factors.
i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to protect human health and the protection of wildlife and the environment.
the risks of irreversible damage to humans and the environment from exposure to endocrine disruptors are too serious.
i voted in favour of this report because we cannot allow a product which can have deadly consequences for humans to continue to be used or to be stored in places not intended for hazardous waste, instead of being subjected to a process of deactivating its fibres.
however, several bloody episodes have overshadowed this process and the presidential elections of may and june 2012, considered free and fair, have not brought a climate of stability to the region.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
on the other hand, while noting that china has made significant social progress in recent decades, i nevertheless look forward to the swift implementation of the repeated calls for democratization and political reforms within the chinese communist party by the new party leadership, considering that only effective political reforms towards the definition of inclusive, democratic and accountable institutions, reflecting china's ethnic, religious, political and social diversity, will pave the way for the construction of sustainable growth and stability and curb the semi-independence of authoritarian leaders at the provincial, district and local levels.
- i voted in favour of the report on eu-china relations, as i believe that the eu should continue the constructive dialogue with china and continue to encourage the necessary reforms in the field of human and social rights, the environment and the fight against climate change.
unfortunately, the trade imbalances between the eu and china reflect differences in the social, economic and democratic model, and the absence or low respect for certain rights (in particular civil and political rights) does not contribute to sustainable growth or to china's future socioeconomic stability.
− a joint europol investigation team has revealed widespread manipulation of football match results over the last few years, with 680 matches considered suspicious worldwide, 380 of them in europe, and has identified a vast network of manipulation in the sports environment, with 425 suspects and 50 people arrested.
however, environmental needs must be noted, calling here on all stakeholders in the cotton sector to work together without delay through the ccia in order to minimise environmental degradation, including water footprints and the use of pesticides and insecticides.
at the same time, i stress the importance of addressing violations of workers' human rights and environmental pollution throughout the cotton value chain, including in the textile and clothing sectors.
i therefore believe that only a coordinated framework addressing the causes of child and forced labour can be implemented on a long-term basis and can lead to a more sustainable cotton value chain.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on the 'world cotton value chain', as i considered it necessary to respond adequately to the persistent problems in this sector, in terms of environmental degradation, market distortions and human rights violations, including situations of forced labour and child labour.
the main problems facing the sector worldwide are the scourge of child labour and the environmental footprint resulting from the excessive use of pesticides, insecticides and water, polluting soils and leading to a marked loss of biodiversity.
- this resolution refers to various aspects related to the sustainability of the cotton value chain.
it highlights the environmental problems in cotton production, such as excessive water consumption, the use of pesticides and insecticides and soil degradation, but mainly highlights the serious problem of child labour and forced labour.
the sustainability of the cotton sector depends on producers, traders, suppliers of inputs, textile manufacturers, retailers, brands, governments, civil society and consumers.
- with the advent of eu membership of the international cotton advisory committee (icac), the issue of sustainability of the cotton value chain needs to be considered.
in this regard, actions to minimise environmental degradation, including the water footprint and the use of pesticides and insecticides, should be promoted so that these unsustainable production conditions do not jeopardise future cotton production conditions.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation is based on the principle of mutual recognition of the quality of the environment and the protection of human health.
parliament called for intensified efforts to combat trade-distorting measures and improve transparency in commodity derivatives markets and for all cotton players to work together within the framework of the ccia without further delay in order to drastically minimise environmental degradation, including excessive water consumption and the use of pesticides and insecticides.
mr jørgensen says that his party is very green and that others in denmark who also support the carbon market are very green.
what i wanted to ask you is whether, in this green spirit, you conceive or admit any solution to this problem of reducing greenhouse gas emissions that is not a market solution, if you can conceive of any solution that does not go through the market?
the years go by and reality insists on confirming what many, including ourselves, have always said: the carbon market not only does not lead to reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, but is itself an obstacle to such reductions and to decreased dependence on fossil fuels.
the alternative to market illusions lies in a regulatory and normative approach that is effective from the point of view of environmental objectives and socially fair.
we therefore want to join our voices here with the many hundreds of environmental organizations around the world calling for an end to the carbon market.
i can answer with a question: so far the carbon market has never led to reductions in emissions, what makes you believe that in the near future what has never worked so far may work?
there are alternatives, and i'm not the one who talked about carbon taxes.
i spoke of a normative, regulatory approach, which is, incidentally, used for industrial emissions other than greenhouse gases.
i would like to ask mr jadot, i would ask him to tell us what examples he knows of, to give us examples of significant structural changes from an ecological point of view, of changes in the energy matrix, in demand, in consumption, in energy production, what considerable changes of relevance from an ecological point of view he knows of that have been achieved by using market instruments such as the carbon market?
this is a unilateral decision by iceland and the faroe islands on mackerel fishing quotas, with severe negative economic and environmental impacts for all countries fishing this resource.
the present legislative proposal, which currently contains many shortcomings, mainly focuses on the use of acoustic equipment to deter accidental hunting of cetaceans despite the fact that cetaceans face various threats such as habitat degradation, collisions with ships and underwater noise pollution.
this sad reality must be a cause for concern for all those who recognise the need to ensure the protection of marine biodiversity.
regulation (ec) no 812/2004 is mainly focused on the use of acoustic devices to prevent the accidental capture of cetaceans, although cetaceans are exposed to different threats such as habitat degradation, collisions with vessels and underwater noise pollution.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the proposal also calls for the use of renewable energy sources to be extended to include the use of renewable energy sources in the transport sector.
given the record of respect for human and fundamental rights by the republic of mauritius and that this fishing activity is sustainable, not showing any negative effects at economic, social or environmental level, i voted in favour as both the new partnership agreement and the new protocol serve the interests of both parties.
without prejudice to certain reservations as to the full fulfilment of the conditions put forward by the rapporteur for the approval of the agreement - namely: to be an economically reasonable agreement taking into account the fishing possibilities available; to be a basis for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of the relevant fisheries resources; to constitute adequate support for the local fisheries sector - we supported the conclusion of the agreement, which will open up fishing possibilities for some segments of the national fleet, in particular tuna vessels.
when the new negotiations for a new agreement began, an impact assessment was commissioned which did not identify any negative economic, social or environmental effects.
finally, it concluded that the mauritius fishing zone does not reveal any specific biological or environmental sensitivity.
therefore, the availability of fishing opportunities in mauritian waters does not reveal any negative economic, social or environmental impacts.
as there is no record of overfishing in the region and as the agreement does not represent any threat to the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources, nor any threat at the socioeconomic level, i voted in favour of the new partnership agreement.
without prejudice to certain reservations as to the full fulfilment of the assumptions put forward by the rapporteur for the approval of the agreement namely: to be an economically reasonable agreement taking into account the available fishing opportunities; to be a basis for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of the relevant fisheries resources; to constitute adequate support for the local fishing industry we supported the conclusion of the agreement, which will open up fishing opportunities for some segments of the national fleet.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy.
the current situation is not sustainable, as duty-free market access continues to be granted to beneficiary countries which do not take the necessary steps to ratify the agreements.
- i welcome this report, considering that the european union emission trading scheme (eu ets) is a key instrument for reducing industrial emissions in the union in a cost-effective way.
however, i would stress that despite the reduction in emissions already seen, the system is faced with serious imbalances.
in my view, this system is one of the pillars of the european union's environmental policy and it is important to have a short-term measure which is not seen as a real solution to the current imbalances, but rather a position which ensures the stability of the system until the necessary structural measures are adopted.
the european system is having an effect essentially on cutting emissions in production and not in consumption.
however, the environmental concerns underlying this commission proposal are equally valid and reasonable.
− the proper functioning of the carbon market is a key instrument to stimulate economic recovery by promoting a more efficient and competitive low-carbon economy.
at present, the carbon price is insufficient to drive sufficiently sustainable scientific and technological innovation.
the carbon price has decreased from around eur 30/t co2 to around eur 7/t co2.
the commission proposal on which this report is based follows the resolution entitled 'roadmap to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050' in which the european parliament called on the commission to take measures to address the shortcomings of the european union emission trading scheme (eu ets) in order to ensure that it operates as originally envisaged and, before the start of the third trading period, to amend, if necessary, the regulation adopted pursuant to article 10 (4) of directive 2003/87/ec in order to implement appropriate measures that may include the retention of the necessary quantity of allowances.
− this report was intended to amend the 2003 directive on the establishment of a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the community (eu ets) in an attempt to circumvent a problem caused by the accumulation of an excess of 955 million emission allowances at the end of 2011. as the allocation of licences is much higher than demand, the price of carbon has decreased significantly.
it is a consequence of the operation of this perverse and ineffective mechanism (ets/carbon market), which we have long warned against.
it has to do with the emissions trading scheme itself, with its principles and (market) foundations, and no cosmetic operation, such as the one now attempted, can solve it entirely.
while the right wants business as usual in the functioning of the carbon market, we oppose this instrument and want to replace it with a completely different approach, normative and regulatory.
- i abstained on this report because i felt that the balance between the interests of industry in the context of the economic crisis and environmental interests had not been struck.
while it is true that this is not the right time to increase the energy costs of the various economic sectors, we cannot forget all the efforts and costs already made to reduce co2 emissions.
− as the allocation of carbon allowances in the eu is much higher than demand, the carbon price has decreased from around eur 30/t co2 to around eur 7/t co2.
this reduction in the carbon price is insufficient to stimulate sufficiently sustainable scientific and technological innovation, and the measures envisaged to encourage investment in low-carbon technologies are ineffective.
− the eu emissions trading scheme (eu ets) is considered a vital mechanism for reducing industrial emissions in the union through an economic logic.
from the outset we have criticised this economic mechanism which subjects the environment to the logic of the market.
− this report was intended to amend directive 2003/87/ec establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the community (eu ghg ets) in an attempt to circumvent a problem caused by the accumulation of an excess of 955 million emission allowances at the end of 2011. as the allocation of licences is much higher than demand, the price of carbon has fallen significantly.
it is a consequence of the operation of this perverse and ineffective mechanism (ets/carbon market).
the problem to be solved is structural, it has to do with the emissions trading scheme itself, with its principles and (market) foundations, and it cannot be solved by a cosmetic operation such as the one now attempted.
i think it is essential at this time that the european union gives space for international negotiations to reach an agreement based on a global market mechanism for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from international aviation.
- i agree with the proposed changes to the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme so that european airlines are not put at a disadvantage compared to their competitors on the market outside the european union.
- i voted in favour of the report on the 'greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme', considering that the derogation from the application of this scheme to intercontinental flights by september 2013 will facilitate the negotiation of a global agreement to reduce aviation emissions within the international civil aviation organisation.
− although the aviation sector is currently responsible for around 3% of total greenhouse gas emissions, these have been increasing, with the international civil aviation organisation (icao) estimating that co2 emissions from the aviation sector have almost doubled between 1990 and 2006. the icao also forecasts an increase of 63 to 88% by 2020, during which time the european union has committed to reducing emissions by 20% compared to 1990 levels.
therefore, and with a view to a more comprehensive agreement, i am voting in favour of the proposal to exclude intercontinental flights from the eu ets for emissions during 2012.
in writing.
this was because of the need to address the rapidly growing greenhouse gas emissions in this sector.
since 1990, greenhouse gas emissions from the aviation sector have increased by about 100%.
failure to address emissions from the aviation sector would also be inconsistent and unfair to other industries and other modes of transport that are subject to regulation in the eu and member states.
in 1997, the international civil aviation organization (icao) was given the task of regulating emissions from the aviation sector.
− the inclusion of aviation in the eu emissions trading scheme (eu ets) in 2008 is part of the response to the rapid growth of greenhouse gas emissions associated with this sector, evidenced by the fact that they have increased by 100% since 1990, the base year of the kyoto protocol.
although we believe that it would be appropriate to seek solutions to this problem in a multilateral forum, our position in principle on the market approach which has prevailed in tackling climate change (and the prospect that it will not be changed in the main) has led us to vote against this report.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of radioactive waste in the transport of dangerous goods.
for these reasons and because of the cosmetic of the surplus value of these subsidies being paid on 30 april 2013, thus covering the year 2012, the very year when the carbon price was low (between 6 and 8 euros) and when airlines can use up to 15% of the credits of the clean development mechanism (which is around 0,4 euros), we decided not to support and that is why we abstained.
- since the kyoto protocol, co2 emissions from the aviation sector have grown exponentially.
- i voted in favour of this report on the creation of a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading in the community.
the commission proposal makes it clear that it is not the eu that is standing in the way of an international agreement on aviation emissions.
− in light of the icao council decision of 9 november 2012, the european commission has announced a proposal to suspend the application of the eu greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme to international flights.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the suspension cannot therefore be extended beyond 31 december 2012, when the eu expects to be able to sign an international agreement to reduce co2 emissions.
− the inclusion of aviation in the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) in 2008 is part of the response to the rapid growth of greenhouse gas emissions associated with this sector.
although we believe that it would be appropriate to seek solutions to this problem in a multilateral forum, our position in principle on the market approach which has prevailed in tackling climate change (and the prospect that it will not be changed in the main) has led us to vote against this report.
− the review of access to the activity of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms and amending directive 2002/87/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the supplementary supervision of credit institutions, insurance undertakings and investment firms in a financial conglomerate aims to ensure a diversified and sustainable eu banking culture that is primarily in the interests of the people and in this respect encourages small-scale banking activities such as mutual credit institutions and cooperative banks.
i hope that they strike the right balance between the interests of ecosystems and fishermen, so as to ensure the sustainability of their way of life and the protection of the natural resources underlying it.
i voted in favour of this report and hope that it will enter into force no later than 1 january 2014, because people do not understand how it is possible, at a time when so much is being said about the new common fisheries policy and, above all, about sustainable fishing, that fish is still being returned in good condition for human consumption at a time of global crisis when millions of people are undernourished.
the main purpose of this proposal is to introduce changes in the regulations currently in force, aimed at reducing the level of unwanted catches and discards, which negatively affect the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources in the skagerrak.
i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the general approach to the proposals put forward and because i believe that the measures suggested will promote a balanced and sustainable exploitation of local fisheries resources.
the main objective of the proposed regulation is to introduce technical modifications in order to reduce the level of discards and unwanted catches, which negatively affect the sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources in the skagerrak strait.
- history shows that no country has achieved long-term sustainable growth without openness to trade and policies to promote and complement it.
i voted in favour of this report because it advocates trade rules for both sides that are properly monitored, it makes commitments aimed at territorial cohesion and it does not forget the necessary environmental solidarity.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound.
a social and environmental touch that does not call into question the essence of these free trade agreements.
- i welcome this report, calling on european companies with subsidiaries or supply chains in developing countries to respect their national and international legal obligations in the field of human rights, labour standards and environmental regulations.
i welcome the fact that a wide range of industries and transnational companies have adopted codes of conduct that detail the social and environmental performance standards applicable to their global supply chains.
the eu's assistance to governments in third countries in implementing social and environmental legislation is a necessary complement to the development of european corporate social responsibility worldwide.
the european union's trade and investment policy should be guided by the general principles of its external action contributing to the sustainable development of the planet, free and fair trade, poverty eradication and the protection of human rights, with trade and investment between the eu, the developing countries (dcs) and the least developed countries (ldcs) being a means to achieve these objectives.
this report, which has been supported by me, advocates improving synergies between trade and development policies by giving priority to measures aimed at: promoting sustainable and inclusive development; creating jobs and enhancing human capital and capacity development, reducing social inequalities; supporting the development of the private sector, including small operators, including micro, small and medium-sized enterprises; improving the trade and investment environment; diversifying trade and investment flows; providing the technical assistance necessary to ensure the appropriate development of measures.
- i voted in favour of this report because it argues that eu trade agreements and investments should support developing countries' capacity to industrialise, diversify production, move up the value chain and develop their services sector, for the benefit of responsible and sustainable development.
looking ahead to the next ten years, the commission has been concerned to launch new proposals with the aim of encouraging sustainable development by focusing on trade.
trade and investment alone cannot have a major transformative effect on growth and sustainable development, as the structural weaknesses of developing countries, including the least developed countries, constitute an obstacle to their full access to world trade.
− this report addresses eu trade and investment policy with a view to promoting sustainable and inclusive growth, in particular in developing countries (ldcs) and least developed countries (ldcs).
− trade and investment between the eu, developing countries (dcs) and least developed countries (ldcs) is a means to achieve these objectives by promoting sustainable and inclusive growth for all, enabling technology and skills transfers and contributing to job creation, increased competitiveness and productivity, as well as achieving greater social cohesion and tackling inequality.
i would stress the importance attached in the objectives to the simultaneous development of production and the necessary infrastructure, particularly in the area of agriculture, through support for independent farmers and small cooperatives, and to the development of sustainable farming, aquaculture and stock-farming practices, enabling them to create, consolidate and diversify supply chains.
- articles 3 and 21 teu provide that the union's trade and investment policy must 'contribute to the sustainable development of the planet ... free and fair trade, the eradication of poverty and the protection of human rights ...'.
− this report looks at eu trade and investment policy from the perspective of promoting sustainable and inclusive growth, in particular in developing countries (ldcs) and least developed countries (ldcs).
we must guarantee additional capital requirements for institutions that have benefited from the support of the ecb, we must be accountable to the ecb as a member of the troika, we must ask that the ecb not make profits at the expense of adjustment programmes, we must recognise the consequences of the recession on the sustainability of public accounts and finally, madam president, we must guarantee democracy, we cannot keep removing citizens from what are the most important decisions in their lives, because, mr draghi, democracy is not just about you answering all the questions we may ask you, it is much more than that.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
- i welcome this report, noting that the common fisheries policy is supposed to promote sustainable fishing, which implies both the long-term viability of the fishing industry and a balance between fisheries resources and the capacity of the fishing fleet, so as to avoid over-exploitation of stocks.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
- i voted in favour of the report on the 2011 discharge for the european development funds, as i consider that this fund plays a very important role in the implementation of european policies, in particular in poverty reduction, in line with the objectives of sustainable development and the gradual integration of the acp countries and the octs into the world economy.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
the committee of the regions, based in brussels, is an advisory body of the council, the commission and the european parliament representing local and regional authorities in the eu and is to be consulted on matters relating to local and regional government, such as employment, the environment, education and public health.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
at the same time, a sustainable increase in the percentage of admissibility decisions taken within one month of receipt of a complaint should be required.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
− i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2011: performance, financial management and control of the european union agencies, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the replies of the institutions under audit, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, issued by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, as well as the opinions of the committee on employment and social affairs, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which have all submitted their observations but have not objected to the discharge.
− i voted in favour of the report on the 2011 discharge for the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, as i consider that this agency plays a very important role in the implementation of european policies, particularly in the energy sector, with clear benefits for citizens.
- at the present political juncture, when many of the european union states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, i would like to make some more general remarks.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
- the report under consideration, by gerben-jan gerbrandy, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2011. acer helps to ensure the proper functioning of the single european gas and electricity market.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the discharge report of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators is appropriate.
− i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the replies of the institutions under audit, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, issued by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, which presents its observations but does not oppose the discharge.
as regards the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
− the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) aims to ensure the proper functioning of the european internal gas and electricity market by supporting and coordinating with national authorities.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i am voting in favour of this report to give the director of the cepcm discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2011.
in writing.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
− i voted in favour of the proposal for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the replies of the institutions under audit, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, the favourable opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and the favourable opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
- i voted in favour of the report on the 2011 discharge for the european chemicals agency, as i consider that this agency plays a very important role in the implementation of european policies, particularly in relation to the protection of the environment and public health.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i am voting in favour of this report to give the director of the cepcm discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2011.
in writing.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
− i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the replies of the institutions under audit, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, the favourable opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and the favourable opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
− i voted in favour of the report on the 2011 discharge for the european environment agency, as i consider that this agency plays a very important role in the implementation of european policies, in particular by providing consistent and independent information on the environment, relevant for policy-makers as well as for the general public.
- at the present political juncture, when many of the european union's member states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european environment agency, i would like to make a few more general remarks.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
− the report under review, by gerben-jan gerbrandy, deals with the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency (eea) for the financial year 2011. the eea, which was set up in 1993, currently has 32 members: the 27 member states of the european union plus norway, switzerland, liechtenstein, iceland and turkey.
its aim is to help the eu and national governments make informed decisions on the environment.
i note that the european court of auditors (court of auditors) considers that the transactions underlying the annual accounts of the european environment agency (eea) for the financial year 2011 are legal and regular in all material respects.
i therefore voted in favour of the discharge to be given to the executive director of the eea in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2011, in accordance with the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the discharge report for the european environment agency is appropriate.
− i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the replies of the institutions under audit, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, the favourable opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and the favourable opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
as regards the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
− i voted in favour of postponing the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2011 as additional clarifications are currently required concerning the agency's contractual relations with ace & ace, in the context of a public tender, following the voting line of the epp group to which i belong.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
− i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the replies of the institutions under audit, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, the favourable opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
finally, i would stress the importance of the institute's work on the gender approach and the wider integration of women in leadership positions, as called for in recent commission documents on gender equality, such as the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on improving the gender balance in non-executive directorships of listed companies and related measures and the communication entitled 'gender balance in company management: contributing to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth'.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
i conclude that the current funding of eiopa, characterised by a mixed funding system, is inflexible, creates an administrative burden and constitutes a threat to the independence of the agencies and therefore it is important to request the commission to explore options for new funding of eiopa that is sustainable in the long term and safeguards the independence of the agencies in the next review of the work and funding arrangements of the agencies.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
− i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2011, asking the commission to explore all options for a new, long-term sustainable funding of the authority, while safeguarding its independence, in its next review of the work and funding arrangements of the agencies, to be submitted by 2 january 2014 at the latest.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
− the european institute of innovation and technology has the express objective of contributing to 'sustainable economic growth and competitiveness in europe by strengthening the innovation capacities of the member states and the european union'.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
i therefore vote against this report, taking into account the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, because i believe that, as with other agencies, the executive director of the ema should also be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2011.
in writing.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
− i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the institute's reply, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the favourable opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
- i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the 2011 budget of the european maritime safety agency, as i consider that this institution plays a very important role in the implementation of european policies, in particular in the field of maritime transport protection, prevention of pollution from ships and maritime safety.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
- the report under consideration, drawn up by gerben-jan gerbrandy, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency (emsa) for the financial year 2011. emsa, established in 2002 and based in lisbon, provides technical support and advice to the european union (eu) and its member states on the development and implementation of legislation in the following areas: maritime safety, maritime security and prevention and response to pollution from ships.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
parliament must continue to demonstrate a high degree of budgetary responsibility, control and moderation, in line with the current austerity climate.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
− i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the institute's reply, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the favourable opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and of the committee on industry, research and energy.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
i am voting in favour of discharging the artemis joint undertaking, noting that it was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the aim of defining and implementing a 'research programme' for the development of key technologies in the field of embedded information systems in different application areas, thus strengthening europe's competitiveness and sustainability.
− i voted in favour of the report on the 2011 discharge for the clean sky joint undertaking, as i consider that this public-private partnership plays an important role in the implementation of european policies, in particular in the research and development of technologies to limit the environmental impacts of air transport.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
− i voted in favour of the report on the 2011 budgetary discharge of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking, as i consider that this public-private partnership plays an important role in the implementation of european policies, in particular in research and development of technologies to promote energy efficiency and the reduction of polluting emissions in the energy sector.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
- at the present political juncture, when many of the european union states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy, i would like to make some more general remarks.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report on the discharge for the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy is appropriate.
− i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the institute's reply, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament.
as regards the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
i am voting in favour of discharging the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy, pointing out that it was set up in march 2007 for a period of 35 years, and that the total indicative resources deemed necessary for the period 2007-2014 were eur 9 653 000 000.
in writing.
this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
the issue is also environmental by promoting the sustainability of stocks through the implementation of multiannual management plans, a model that the future common fisheries policy establishes as a rule.
multiannual plans based on scientific advice, reflecting the specificities of different resources and the diversity of fisheries in european waters, contribute to the sustainability of exploitation of fisheries resources, as well as to better long-term planning and greater stability of the sector.
they are therefore an undeniable asset to a sustainable european fisheries sector.
the financial and economic crisis is indeed a global systemic crisis and is interlinked with many other crises, such as the food, environmental and social crisis.
− the eu's sustainable development strategy, launched by the gothenburg european council in 2001 and renewed in june 2006, seeks to continuously improve the quality of life for current and future generations.
the commission's (eurostat) monitoring report, which is published every two years, provides an objective statistical overview of progress made, based on the eu's set of sustainable development indicators.
its aim is therefore to grow the labour market and protect workers and the environment.
these measures should make it possible to stop the export of hazardous waste from the eu to non-oecd countries, including through the use of voluntary landings, which have significant environmental and health impacts.
− under the eu regulation on waste shipments, the export of hazardous waste from the eu to non-oecd countries has been prohibited since 1998. due to the various hazardous materials on board a ship, any ship that leaves the eu for dismantling is a hazardous waste.
ship recycling is often carried out in yards with little or no standards for the protection of workers, human health and the environment, as these are the ones that offer the best prices.
a financial mechanism applicable to all ships calling at eu ports, among other measures to counterbalance this situation, is now essential to make the safe and environmentally friendly recycling of ships that constitute hazardous waste competitive with other recycling operations.
working conditions, workers' rights, the protection of public health and the preservation of the environment are all matters of great concern to us.
it proposes that a european list be drawn up of recycling yards anywhere in the world, provided they comply with certain standards (to a certain extent above the provisions of the hong kong convention), such as the handling of hazardous materials on impermeable soils, downstream waste treatment facilities operating in accordance with eu standards for the protection of human health and the environment, but not subject to mandatory controls.
- the present report reiterates the view already expressed by this house that it is ethically irresponsible to tolerate the prolongation of situations involving the dismantling of ships which are harmful to human health and the environment.
i have supported this report in order to ensure that recycling and treatment of waste is carried out in an environmentally friendly way.
working conditions, workers' rights, the protection of public health and the preservation of the environment are all matters of great concern to us.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i also welcome the decision to strengthen cooperation between the eu and turkey in a number of important areas, such as energy.
on the energy front, it is argued that turkey has the potential to play a key role in access to and control of energy sources and markets for oil, gas and electricity from the eu's neighbours.
however, accession negotiations did not begin until 2005. turkey is a key country not only in terms of geostrategic stability for the western balkans and the middle east, but also in terms of its military capability and energy potential.
i welcome the fact that the parliamentary elections were held in a climate of confidence, which means democratic maturity, but a code of conduct for politicians and an end to attacks on journalists are necessary.
for montenegro's accession to the eu, the country will still have to make an effort in the fields of social policy and employment, energy and environmental protection, as well as in the areas of security and civil rights.
− serbia's eu integration path depends on strict adherence to the guidelines on judicial systems, the fight against corruption, media freedom, the protection of minorities, sustainable management of natural resources and, finally, economic reforms.
− kosovo's eu integration path depends on strict adherence to the guidelines on judicial systems, the fight against corruption, media freedom, the protection of minorities, sustainable management of natural resources and, finally, economic reforms.
i would like to emphasise the importance of the european union rule of law mission in kosovo, eulex kosovo, which has been operational since 2009, and the visible efforts in sustainable development and the consolidation of its institutions.
i would like to congratulate mr reul on his report on the challenges and opportunities for renewable energy.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
in this context, the itre committee highlighted the importance of energy, proposing to increase the horizon 2020 budget for the societal energy challenge from 7.5% to 8.4%, alongside an ambitious and very comprehensive work programme.
finally, i would like to stress the importance of all measures to reduce the cost of renewable energy, in order to reconcile the objectives of security of energy supply, combating climate change and the competitiveness of european companies.
– we in the committee on industry, research and energy have voted unanimously on a more ambitious programme for energy societal challenge in horizon 2020, with the main objective of achieving 75% earmarking for renewable energy and energy efficiency.
one of the main objectives is to lower the costs of the clean technologies associated with renewables and energy efficiency.
we are also putting a lot of effort into energy storage.
we need more technologies for storage, in order to be able to take advantage of the full potential of renewable energies.
we have also put forward energy technologies market uptake – that is the continuation of intelligent energy europe.
it is essential to invest in the development of renewables, although we believe that before setting targets, a serious and careful survey would be necessary to quantify and classify renewable energy resources.
but we are definitely against the policy option advocated here of integrating renewable energies into the european internal energy market.
this report says that state influence results in higher prices for final consumers and that liberalisation has played a central role in lowering energy prices for all consumers in the european union.
renewables, yes, but to fight energy poverty and social inequalities, to protect the environment, not to create another multi-million dollar business at the expense of exploiting consumers.
unfortunately, in energy matters, and whenever we discuss it in the european institutions, in the clash between citizens and multinationals, the multinationals always win, the business always wins.
it is also true that the arctic is not part of the territory of the european union, but we know that there are companies operating in the arctic, and so if they want to include public consultation, as is included, by the way, in the proposal that will be adopted tomorrow, i think by the majority of this house, then why not listen to the appeals: the appeals of the ngos and of the citizens who do not want drilling, do not want exploitation in extreme or sensitive environments, because it is the whole planet that is at stake, it is the whole environment and that is what we must take into account.
i would also remind you that the extension of the powers of the lisbon agency was already included in my proposed recommendations, which were endorsed in the ford report adopted in 2011. ensuring safety standards and greater coordination at eu level and with neighbouring countries is essential to ensure best practice in safety and also in environmental terms for all regions of europe and its neighbouring regions.
the environmental, economic and social impacts of these activities are profound and must be increasingly carefully considered, and warrant a broad debate on the enormous dependence on this primary source of energy, a debate on the necessary reduction and rationalisation of energy consumption and on the frugal management of the remaining fossil resources.
mr president, mr barroso once said that austerity had reached its limits, and that even if the policies of budgetary correction were correct, they were not politically and socially sustainable.
this is not about making the pension system more sustainable, but about reducing employer contributions to public social security systems and promoting the business of retirement savings plans sold by banks and from which they make millions.
more than palliative parks which take this process of deindustrialization as an inevitability, endogenous development strategies are needed, which promote the sustainable use of the resources of each region and the strengthening of its productive sectors.
mr president, i would naturally like to greet the president and the commissioners and say the following: this council is extremely important because it is affecting two fundamental factors of competitiveness for europe: one is the energy factor, the cost of energy, and the other is the tax factor and, in particular, the cost of tax evasion.
the importance of these horizontal agreements in the field of aviation has effects not only in terms of environmental and safety regulations but also in terms of potential investments for both parties.
this agreement aims to ensure synergies and avoid duplication of the work of the european aviation safety agency (easa) in relation to safety-related air traffic management and environmental issues.
it also aims to enhance synergies and avoid duplication of work of the european aviation safety agency (easa) in relation to safety-related air traffic management and environmental issues.
this is an agreement which confirms that eurocontrol is the eu's technical and operational arm for the development and implementation of the ses [single european sky]; lists the areas of cooperation and defines the terms and conditions of such cooperation; and aims to ensure synergies and avoid duplication of work of the european aviation safety agency (easa) with regard to air traffic management issues related to safety and environmental issues.
this organisation plays a central role in air traffic management related to safety and environmental issues and has been designated by the european commission as the ses performance review body and air traffic management network manager.
the report by mr geier calls for the resources to be used for support and training for the unemployed, the revitalisation of derelict industrial areas and investment in innovative, sustainable and competitive industries.
− while europe is experiencing an unprecedented crisis, we cannot forget the preponderant role of industry, which still accounts for 16% of european gdp, and the challenges it faces in a globalised world, where emerging economies are betting on aggressive industrial policies based on massive investments in r & d, competing with europe with the advantage of not having the same environmental, social and labour conditions.
it is essential to pursue a policy of reindustrialisation, using the cohesion fund funds not only for the sustainable rehabilitation of formerly industrialised regions but also for the conversion and industrialisation of areas hit hard by the crisis and with high unemployment rates.
the regions affected by deindustrialisation clearly lack strategies for endogenous development that promote the sustainable use of their resources and the strengthening of their productive sectors.
i believe that european public funding is essential for the sustainable rehabilitation of formerly industrialised regions, whose territorial advantages, industrial heritage, experience and capacity hold enormous potential for growth and employment in europe, and i therefore voted in favour of the own-initiative report.
- environmental protection is on the agenda.
our dependence on fossil fuels - despite the increase in renewable energy - remains enormous and we are exploiting ever deeper deposits.
the recent disaster in the gulf of mexico is an example of the lack of safety that exists in many offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production activities, as well as the devastating environmental consequences that these accidents cause.
it is not just the safety of workers that is at stake but also the protection of the environment.
i voted in favour of this report because it contains most of the proposals put forward by the various committees requiring that member states and licensing authorities can only authorise new farms after rigorous environmental impact studies and other aspects that minimise the risks of an accident.
the dramatic example of the deepwater horizon accident in april 2010, which killed 11 workers and triggered an environmental catastrophe, is a demonstration of this.
it considers that, as general principles of risk management, member states should require operators to ensure that all appropriate measures are taken to prevent the occurrence of major accidents associated with offshore oil and gas operations and to take responsibility for environmental damage caused.
− the 2010 deepwater horizon accident off the coast of the united states and its effects on the marine environment and humans have alerted the union to the need for legislation on the safety of offshore oil and gas exploration, exploitation and production.
- among the initiatives proposed in this report, i would stress the importance of investing in scientific research, technological development and demonstration in the field of renewable energy in order to reduce its costs for both producers and consumers.
parliament stressed the importance of energy, proposing an increase from 7.5% to 8.4% of the horizon 2020 budget for the societal energy challenge, alongside an ambitious and very comprehensive work programme.
i would like to stress the importance of all measures to reduce the costs of renewable energy in order to reconcile the objectives of security of energy supply, combating climate change and the competitiveness of european companies.
− sustainable growth without undermining competitiveness requires a consistent energy policy, the proper functioning of the emission allowance market and the promotion of national projects that contribute to the community's objectives of reducing emissions and increasing energy independence and clean energy production.
in this context, the production of renewable energy is of crucial importance and should be encouraged and exploited consistently.
i am proud that my country is a good example in this area (in 2011, in portugal, 24.9% of total energy was renewable while for the same year the eu average was only 13%) and i believe that this should be a model for other european states to follow.
- the report under consideration, by mr herbert reul, deals with the current challenges and opportunities for renewable energy in the eu's internal energy market.
renewable energy sources not only contribute to combating climate change and increasing europe's energy independence, but also bring additional environmental benefits.
a binding target for renewable energy sources in 2030 will signal to investors that renewable energy remains a priority.
it is essential that eu energy policy is geared towards the development, deployment and distribution of renewable energy with ambitious renewable energy targets for member states by 2030 in order to achieve a renewable energy economy by 2050.
in writing.
− this report aims to boost the uptake of renewable energy sources (res) and to contribute to reducing europe's energy dependence on conventional energy sources, while also reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
we support reducing dependence on fossil fuels, diversifying sources and increasing their sustainability.
the solution to the energy problems we face is not just a transition to res.
the way in which the economy is organised and the energy consumption associated with them, must be questioned.
it should be borne in mind that even rdfs can have significant environmental impacts.
this does not mean that much remains to be done in the field of rationalising supply and consumption and minimising environmental impacts.
public control of the energy sector is an essential factor in achieving these objectives.
− res, together with energy efficiency measures and flexible and intelligent infrastructure, are the 'no-compromise' options and will in future constitute a growing share of europe's energy supply, in terms of electricity supply, heating (which accounts for almost half of the eu's total energy demand) and cooling, and the transport sector, reducing europe's energy dependence on conventional energy sources.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
renewable energy sources not only contribute to combating climate change and increasing europe's energy independence, but also bring additional environmental benefits in terms of reducing air pollution, waste generation and water use, as well as other risks inherent in other forms of energy production.
this is why it is so important to replace fossil fuels with more environmentally friendly sources of energy.
− the commission communication 'renewable energies: a decisive player in the european energy market' sets out a strategic framework for renewable energy policies in the european union.
the communication stresses that renewable energy policies must ensure that such sources can form an integral part of the european energy market with limited but effective support where needed and with transport solutions capable of providing a flexible back-up to the electricity supply in europe.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of renewable energy sources, in particular in the transport sector.
the european parliament's document calls on the commission to achieve greater convergence in the design of the european support system for renewable energy for the period after 2020. i supported this report, which calls on the commission to evaluate the european support scheme for renewable energy sources (res) with a view to a more cost-effective framework and potential.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of the environment, the commission has adopted a communication on the environment and the environment in the european union.
seven flagship initiatives were defined, one of them being 'a resource-efficient europe' which aims to have 20% of total energy produced from renewable energy sources.
i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that europe must improve its energy independence vis-à-vis third countries and diversify its energy sources, and must increasingly rely on environmentally friendly energy sources.
although in 2011 portugal already produced 24.9% of its total energy from renewable energy sources, i believe that it is premature to set a binding target of 40 to 45% in europe by 2030.
in writing.
− this is an own-initiative report which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in order to help reduce europe's energy dependence on conventional energy sources.
these are intentions which seem to us to be correct, although it would be important to set amounts for public and private investment and to promote a general survey and mapping plan for the classification and quantification of renewable energy resources.
we are concerned that they are throwing renewable energy into the european internal energy market, which calls into question the sovereignty of the member states in energy policy, since this is a strategic sector for a country's economy and for the definition of its related policies.
the energy poverty that is currently being experienced in several eu countries, particularly in the electricity sector, is caused by the increase in energy prices caused by successive privatisations in the sector.
mr president, the proposal we have adopted today on the sustainability of pensions has several fundamental problems: the first concerns raising the retirement age so that contributions can be extended, as if unemployment were not the main problem in the european union; the second concerns raising contributions for those who work by reducing employers' contributions.
to include the private sector as a guarantee of sustainability for reforms and pensions is to bring social security schemes into the casino economy once and for all.
− the ageing population is putting at risk the financial sustainability of the pension system in all member states.
the weak economic growth, budget deficits and debt levels, as well as financial instability and low employment have further aggravated the situation and it is urgent to develop and implement comprehensive strategies to adapt pension systems to changing economic and demographic circumstances, setting out a clear agenda to make pensions adequate and sustainable in the long term.
− all citizens want to receive a secure and sustainable retirement pension that will enable them to live out their final years with quality.
i voted in favour of the report by mrs ria oomen-ruijten because i agree that there is a need for greater awareness of the problems of the financial sustainability of social security systems so that we can all have an old age with a minimum quality of life.
all under the ever-invoked and cheated pretext of sustainability.
how can they forget the effects that the policies in place, as well as the unprecedented levels of unemployment they create, have on the sustainability of the system.
− the sustainability of public-pillar pensions, i.e.
weighing in on the clarity of statistical forecasts, which point not only to a progressive decline in average labour force participation but also to a scenario of low economic growth, the legislative agenda must take political responsibility for a future with adequate, secure and sustainable pensions.
- the proposal we have adopted today on the sustainability of pensions has several fundamental problems: the first concerns raising the retirement age so that contributions can be extended, as if unemployment were not the main problem in the european union; the second concerns raising contributions for those who work by reducing employers' contributions.
to include the private sector as a guarantee of sustainability for reforms and pensions is to bring social security schemes into the casino economy once and for all.
− several pension systems in several member states are experiencing serious difficulties in financial sustainability due to the fact that discounts are becoming lower and capital needs are increasing.
in order to make social security more sustainable, i am in favour of creating pension plans that combine public investment with collective and individual retirement savings plans.
− the report on an agenda for adequate, secure and sustainable pensions, which follows the european commission's white paper, focuses on two areas of eu intervention on pension issues: the european semester (implementation of country-specific recommendations on pension reform) and the strengthening of the internal pension market (third pillar).
surely this is not the way to make the pension system more sustainable!
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
one step towards this goal is to promote greater tax coordination between member states (ms), with greater exchanges of tax information and the promotion of tax planning that promotes sustainable growth.
one step towards this goal is to promote greater tax coordination between member states (ms), with greater exchanges of tax information and the promotion of tax planning that promotes sustainable growth.
fiscal policy choices should be smart and should focus on creating tax structures that stimulate long-term aggregate demand, facilitate export-oriented activities, encourage job creation and promote sustainable development.
one step towards this goal is to promote greater tax coordination between member states (ms), with greater exchanges of tax information and the promotion of tax planning that promotes sustainable growth.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the taxation of energy products.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the nqf introduces a simplified regulatory environment for products and allows for a more consistent application of technical standards which will help to improve the functioning of the single market by ensuring fair treatment of non-compliant products and economic operators, as well as a fair assessment of notified bodies across the eu market.
the directive does not preclude measures taken by a member state on grounds of public policy, public health, public security or environmental protection to prohibit or restrict the possession, use and/or sale to the general public of category 2 and 3 fireworks, theatrical pyrotechnics and other pyrotechnic articles.
the new legislative framework introduces a simplified regulatory environment for products and allows for a more consistent application of technical standards which will help to improve the functioning of the single market by ensuring fair treatment of non-compliant products and economic operators, as well as a fair assessment of notified bodies across the eu market.
these amendments introduce a simplified regulatory environment for products, thus allowing for more consistent application, away from the regulatory complexity that has been hampering the interpretation and application of the legislation by economic operators and authorities.
this is not a flash-in-the-pan concept either; this will be a sustainable mechanism which can evolve into co-financing in the future and serve other partner countries as well.
let us not waste time.
the resolution refers both to the eu's defensive areas, such as the air and maritime transport sectors, the public procurement market, financial services and geographical indications, to name just the main ones, and to the union's defensive areas, such as food safety, cultural and audiovisual services, the protection of personal data, workers' rights and environmental protection.
the ttip also aims to adopt common rules where they do not exist or are insufficient at global level, such as in relation to investment, export restrictions, energy, etc.
they are the promoters of a race to the bottom in terms of social and labour rights, environmental standards and standards for protecting the welfare of the population.
trade that does not work, as this agreement will if it goes ahead, will result in another attack on the weakest production systems, on labour rights, on consumer rights and on safety and environmental protection.
− regulation (ec) no 450/2008 of the european parliament and of the council of 23 april 2008 laying down the community customs code (modernised customs code) was intended to adapt customs legislation to allow it not only to adapt to the electronic environment of customs and trade but also to regulate this space.
− the community customs code was established by regulation (ec) no 450/2008 which organises customs legislation, in particular by regulating the electronic environment of customs and trade.
the objective of this policy is to contribute to a better integration of the beneficiary countries into world trade and thus to contribute to their economic development, while respecting human rights and the principles of sustainable development.
the union is already a party to an agreement on investor-state dispute settlement (the energy charter treaty) and will seek to negotiate such provisions in a number of agreements currently under negotiation or to be negotiated in the future.
in addition to the necessary alignment with the lisbon treaty, the movement of pet animals was regulated in 2003 and the environment for the movement of pet animals has undergone major changes: the commission and the member states, among others, have carried out successful rabies vaccination campaigns, which leads to the view, in principle, that rabies is now extinct in many regions of the union, although, as always, continuous surveillance is required.
the european commission's proposed competitiveness and convergence instrument should take account of the needs of each member state and be designed around strategies for long-term sustainable growth and reducing disparities, based on budgetary capacity made available for this purpose.
the commission's proposal for a competitiveness and convergence instrument must take account of the needs of each member state and be designed around strategies for long-term sustainable growth and the reduction of disparities, based on budgetary capacity made available for this purpose.
the european commission's proposed competitiveness and convergence instrument should take account of the needs of each member state and be designed around strategies for long-term sustainable growth and reducing disparities, based on budgetary capacity made available for this purpose.
− i approve this resolution, starting by calling for the urgent establishment of an eu mechanism composed of a team of investigators, prosecutors, lawyers and other experts, with the aim of providing legal and technical advice to the arab spring countries in the process of asset recovery, proposing that this mechanism be appropriately funded by the relevant financial instrument in the framework of the union's external relations and, underlining in this context of complex, delicate and time-consuming legal proceedings, the importance of ensuring the sustainability of this eu mechanism.
i also believe it is crucial that the eu and the us tap the untapped potential of a truly integrated transatlantic market in order to maximise the creation of decent jobs and stimulate a smart, robust, sustainable and balanced growth potential, considering that this is particularly timely given the persisting economic crisis, the state of financial markets and financing conditions, the high level of public debt, high unemployment rates and modest growth projections on both sides of the atlantic, and the benefits of a truly coordinated response to these common problems.
it will be above all a race to the bottom between the two sides of the atlantic in terms of wages and working conditions, environmental protection standards, consumer rights and public health safeguards.
it is an agreement for the deregulation and liberalisation of new sectors of the economy which break environmental and social standards in the union.
− i agree, considering that disclosure to investors and consumers is an essential part of corporate social responsibility and should be based on easily applicable and measurable social and environmental principles.
i would stress that the country reporting should cover sectors which in burma/myanmar have been directly implicated in human rights violations and environmental destruction, such as the mining, timber, oil and gas sectors.
we must not forget that burma's geostrategic location between china and india and its natural resources, including energy, can play an important role for the eu and its nato allies, particularly the usa.
- i voted in favour of this resolution on restoring access to the generalized tariff preferences for myanmar/burma because it recognises that responsible and sustainable trade and investment, in particular with and from the union, can support myanmar/burma's efforts to fight poverty and to ensure that the measures benefit wider segments of the population.
finally, i would stress that the new framework for macro-regional cooperation must ensure that the natural handicaps of peripheral regions, such as high-altitude mountain areas, islands and outermost regions, are converted into advantages and opportunities, and that the sustainable development of these regions is stimulated.
considering that the territories that make up the alpine region have many common features, such as the unique geographical character of their high-altitude mountain areas, and are strongly interlinked with heterogeneous economic capacities and growing concerns about environmental issues, demographic developments, transport infrastructure, tourism and energy issues, i think that the region will only gain from a global and macro-regional approach such as the one proposed here.
- i voted in favour of this resolution, which stresses that a macro-regional strategy for the alps must take into account the preservation of traditional land use, mainly agricultural, in order to promote biodiversity and the preservation of existing protected areas.
i also call on the commission to actively promote responsible business conduct among eu companies operating abroad, paying particular attention to ensuring strict compliance with all their legal obligations, in particular international standards and rules in the fields of human rights, labour and the environment.
we share the same concerns and the same goals: the waste of eu funds in the pockets of fraudsters is unacceptable.
energy, transport, financial services, and others, are stark examples.
in this context, it is important to invest in the rehabilitation of the building, with a view to creating more social housing fires, respecting the principles of energy efficiency and seismic construction when justified, as is the case in the azores, since our cities and towns have several abandoned buildings in a state of advanced degradation.
european union funds are indeed available to improve housing outcomes, and housing remains a funding priority for the next financial framework of 2014-2020. the european regional development fund may, for instance, finance integrated housing interventions and energy-efficient renovations.
these goals may encompass poverty reduction, promoting active inclusion and inclusive territorial urban development, combating climate change, improving health and consumer policy outcomes or avoiding macroeconomic imbalances.
- i voted in favour of the report on the long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks - 1 because it introduces the necessary adaptations to the lisbon treaty and allows for the creation of legal certainty to ensure the sustainable exploitation of stocks, based on maximum sustainable yield.
− the over-exploitation of marine resources is a matter of concern to citizens who are aware of the need for sustainable and balanced management of ecosystems in order to ensure the survival of the human species.
in agreeing with the proposals put forward, i voted in favour of this report, which aims to establish a long-term plan to promote sustainable fishing of cod stocks.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
− i welcome this report, which advances a new agenda for consumer policy at european level, and it is important to give priority to issues such as social and environmental sustainability, food and product safety, the digital environment or the strengthening of measures to protect vulnerable consumers.
we must therefore respond with this new agenda to the challenges of globalisation, the economic crisis and its impact on various consumer groups and contribute to a low-carbon economy.
this new agenda should ensure: food safety, health, energy and the security of financial and digital products.
consumers must be able to exercise their rights easily and effectively in food, health, energy, transport, financial and digital services, broadband access, data protection, transport and telecommunications.
it is necessary to provide better protection of the rights of vulnerable consumer groups such as children and older persons, in particular in the areas of transport, financial services, energy and ict.
- i voted in favour of the report on a new agenda for european consumer policy, because it includes proposals to strengthen consumer rights, the quality and safety of products, including foodstuffs, social and environmental sustainability, and compensation and protection measures for the most vulnerable consumers.
− a year ago, the european commission published the draft consumer agenda which continues european consumer protection policies, ensuring in particular food safety, health, energy and the security of financial and digital products.
it also stressed the need for greater cooperation with the private sector, particularly in the energy sector, and for a strengthened competition policy.
− on 22 may 2012, the european commission released a draft consumer agenda which continues the eu consumer policy strategy for 2007-2013. this agenda provides for a number of consumer initiatives in the period 2014-2020. i believe that the european consumer agenda should give priority to ensuring food safety, health, energy and the security of financial and digital products.
− the new agenda for european consumer policy foresees a set of initiatives for the period 2014-2020 that will prepare consumer rights organisations, citizens, parliaments and national governments for policies related to food safety, health, energy and the security of financial and digital products.
the choices must be sustainable and efficient in themselves.
the priorities of the european consumer agenda are food safety, health, energy and the security of financial and digital products, online protection, legal certainty and guarantees of citizens' rights.
it also stressed the need for greater cooperation with the private sector, particularly in the energy sector, and the strengthening of competition policy.
i agree with this proposal because i believe it is in line with the commission's policy called better regulation, the lisbon strategy and the eu's sustainable development strategy.
- i voted in favour of the report on the long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks - 2 because it introduces the necessary adaptations to the lisbon treaty and allows for the creation of legal certainty to ensure the sustainable exploitation of stocks, based on maximum sustainable yield.
− the over-exploitation of marine resources is a matter of concern to citizens who are aware of the need for sustainable and balanced management of ecosystems in order to ensure the survival of the human species.
the objective is to reduce cod catches and discards and to enable sustainable catches of other target species.
this will allow for better management of cod stocks and their long-term sustainability.
the amendments proposed in the report are essentially aimed at reducing cod catches by retaining sustainable catches of target species and reducing by-catch discards.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the measures proposed for this long-term management plan contribute to a balanced and sustainable exploitation of cod stocks.
because social housing cannot be considered an expense but an investment, i voted in favour of the report on social housing in the european union by my colleague karima delli and i call on the eu institutions to support the member states in their policies to support social housing, thus contributing to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives of reducing poverty, social exclusion and combating climate change.
− this report aims to show how the social housing sector can be a lever to help the european union emerge from the economic, social and environmental crisis.
considering that social housing plays a key role in the implementation of key european policies, as it contributes to ensuring high levels of employment, social inclusion and cohesion, while promoting mobility and even combating energy poverty through its contribution to the modernisation of the housing stock, i supported this report which calls on the member states to establish and organise a parallel supply of social housing to complement the supply generated by private initiative.
− in the current economic climate, the simplification and flexibility of all rules allowing greater mobility of students and professionals is an essential requirement for a sustainable economic recovery.
by ending the queues at toll booths, we would be contributing to the improvement of the economy and to the fight against climate change.
i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the need for self-financing of road structures and the adoption of a system which not only brings environmental benefits but also improves access to european markets.
– madam president, the banking and financial sector has been the epicentre of the crisis, and the achievement of reforms currently under way is a precondition for ending the crisis and ensuring sustainable financing of the real economy for growth.
furthermore, having regard to the hearing of mr neven mimica on 4 june 2013 led by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, in association with the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and to the statement of assessment made following that hearing, i approve the appointment of mr neven mimica as a member of the commission for the remainder of the term of office of the bureau committee until 31 october 2014.
in writing.
i am voting in favour of your appointment because the hearing held on 4 june 2013 by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection in association with the committee on the environment, public health and food safety was favourable to your appointment.
to do this, fishing must be carried out in each region according to the availability of resources, scientifically monitored, and giving priority to the communities of those regions that have always fished there and to whom the future sustainability of the activity in their waters is of greatest interest.
since these catches do not comply with environmental or social standards, among others, fishermen can usually sell it at lower prices.
in relation to the latter, the application of this regulation has been limited to the listing of non-cooperating third countries in the fight against iuu fishing, without appropriate and dissuasive trade sanctions; the commission has been extremely zealous in its approach to european operators, wanting to be more environmentally friendly, protectionist and restrictive of fisheries than other operators globally, including by introducing regulations that threaten their sustainability and competitiveness, severely undermining european operators who fully comply with the strict standards set by the eu.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in view of the above, and considering that the proposal contributes to improving europe's competitiveness by creating an environment conducive to growth and employability, i supported this report.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
− in several member states, fiscal consolidation measures have led to the promotion of short-term expenditure objectives at the expense of investment in sustainable growth, employment, social cohesion and competitiveness.
− sustainable growth, employment, social cohesion and competitiveness have been severely hampered by the fiscal consolidation measures implemented in the wake of the public debt crisis, which required short-term spending cuts.
this report thus looks at the eu funds, whose chain of command can and should contribute to strengthening the union's social dimension through growth-enhancing social investment, towards sustainable and inclusive reform.
strong competition is necessary to meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
- more competition means more choice for european citizens and a more competitive environment for businesses.
the commission's actions to ensure an effective competitive environment within the internal market are therefore key to achieving those objectives and are, in a time of crisis, an essential tool for the economic recovery and growth we want.
− in 2011, the commission implemented a set of measures to boost the competitiveness of the european economy and to achieve the europe 2020 strategy's goals of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in this respect, the report takes note of the backlog of the single market in energy and rail transport and the need for consistency in the regulation of services of general interest (sgeis) as required by the eu treaties.
we are totally against the internal energy market, the single transport market, the creation of the single european sky, the liberalization of the postal service, all of which are supported in this report.
the community method must therefore be the basis for any initiative aimed at stability, sustainable growth, solidarity and democracy at eu level.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment.
in this respect, i would stress that sustainable economic growth is the most effective tool to combat long-term unemployment, as i believe that measures specifically targeted at young people are important, but it remains essential to ensure that the eu has a strong, competitive and modern economy.
this requires the high representative to assume political coordination between all union policies and instruments with an impact on external action, including security, development, humanitarian aid, trade, energy, etc.
- for the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries as a whole, privileged access to the european market has not translated into sustainable growth and sufficient integration.
the economic partnership agreement will create a new climate more favourable to economic relations in the fields of economic governance, trade and investment and will open up new prospects for growth and development.
improving infrastructure and fostering the business climate are key to contributing to the generation of sustainable economic growth regional integration of the central african states shall aim at promoting their integration into the world economy, taking into account their development priorities.
- the privileged access to the european market has not translated into sustainable growth and sufficient integration of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries as a whole into the world economy.
− this revision of the cotonou agreement introduces key issues for sustainable development and the progressive integration of the acp countries into the world economy.
issues such as climate change, energy security, capacity building and education are essential for the development of these countries.
global warming may also present an opportunity.
the renewable energy costs available to these countries are indispensable for their economic and social development and allow them to move towards energy independence in order to cope with the global crisis.
this review has many positive aspects such as security, regional development, the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs), the fight against climate change, etc.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment.
i voted in favour of this proposal because it is aimed at restoring the confidence of european citizens by setting priorities and responding to new needs in order to achieve sustainable growth that reverses rising unemployment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
- i welcome this report, beginning by urging both partners to study areas and frameworks through which broader and more pragmatic transatlantic cooperation can be carried out and to explore with other atlantic countries the usefulness of such extended cooperation, stressing that from the eu's point of view, the areas to be considered include economic and social issues, global governance, the process of democratisation, human rights, development cooperation, climate change, security and energy.
the atlantic ocean, which for thousands of years was a barrier between continents, is now a unifying element that the eu must not waste.
the areas of cooperation that are possible are many: climate change, management of marine resources, promotion of trade and investment, security, food protection, energy resources, the fight against organised crime, support for developing countries and the promotion of respect for human rights, among others.
this transatlantic partnership has been based on strong political, cultural, economic and historical links and shared values such as freedom, democracy, human rights and the rule of law, as well as common objectives such as prosperity, open and integrated economies, social progress and inclusion, sustainable development and peaceful conflict resolution.
the military coup, the occupation of the north by armed rebel groups and the consequent military conflict brought about a climate of civil war with dire consequences that spread to neighboring countries.
- i approve this motion for a resolution, reaffirming my continued support for the building of an afghan state with stronger democratic institutions, capable of guaranteeing national sovereignty, the unity of the state, the territorial integrity and the prosperity of the people of afghanistan, reaffirming that the peaceful future of afghanistan depends on the establishment of a stable, secure and economically sustainable state free from terrorism and drugs and based on the rule of law, the strengthening of democratic institutions, respect for the separation of powers and the safeguarding of fundamental rights.
− the eu has been committed to supporting the reconstruction and development of afghanistan since 2002 and remains committed to a peaceful transition in the country, its inclusive and sustainable development and the stability and security of the entire region.
− the eu has supported the reconstruction and development of afghanistan since 2002 and remains committed to a peaceful transition, its inclusive and sustainable development and the stability and security of the entire region.
the eu must agree on a coherent position, based on the mdg framework and future achievements in sustainable development goals.
i hereby express my support for a responsible and comprehensive post-2015 development framework, based on the principles of human rights, equality, non-discrimination, sustainability, good governance and policy coherence for development, and aiming at the creation of a just and sustainable world, where every human being can exercise their rights and live free from poverty.
in this regard, the eu cannot fail to have a coordinated and coherent position on the post-2015 development framework, supporting a responsible and comprehensive post-2015 development framework, based on the principles of human rights, equality, non-discrimination, sustainability, good governance and policy coherence for development, aiming at the creation of a just and sustainable world, where every human being can exercise their rights and live in dignity and free from poverty.
despite the considerable progress achieved on the mdgs, it is necessary to take into account the new global landscape in which poverty is reaching new dimensions, many developing countries are highly vulnerable to shocks from climate, food and demographic crises and new challenges such as high unemployment (especially among young people), lack of social protection, environmental degradation are intensifying.
i therefore consider it crucial that the eu takes a common, effective and ambitious stance in the discussions on the post-2015 framework, which should be a comprehensive framework, incorporating the core issues of development and sustainability and including for this purpose not only the mdgs but also the sustainable development goals.
reducing extreme poverty and improving access to the most basic conditions for survival worldwide is imperative and must be inherent in all trade, environmental, development or other policy-making processes.
− on 8 september 2000, following the united nations millennium declaration, 191 countries adopted the millennium development goals (mdgs): eradicating extreme poverty and hunger, achieving universal primary education, promoting gender equality and the empowerment of women, reducing child mortality, improving maternal health, combating hiv/aids, malaria and other diseases, ensuring environmental sustainability and creating a global partnership for development.
madam president, commissioner, water pollution is a threat to the aquatic environment, it jeopardizes the quality and quantity of drinking water and it is one of the main environmental concerns.
the water directive set the objective of achieving good environmental, chemical and quantitative status of european water bodies by 2015 and defined strategies to combat pollution.
the review of the list of priority substances has identified new substances which pose a risk to the aquatic environment.
their good conservation requires the observance of stringent criteria that ensure a high level of protection of public health and the environment, but it requires more: it requires public water and outreach services, public research and development institutions, specialised technical and scientific personnel, as well as a set of firm measures to defend, secure and protect water as a strategic public good.
mr president, i congratulate the commission, the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs on their respective contributions to strengthening blue growth through transport and tourism, as well as maritime spatial planning, integrated coastal zone management, fisheries and aquaculture, shipbuilding and employment, energy and biotechnology, research and innovation, and extraction of minerals from the seabed.
the proposed recycling of metals does not appear to be sufficient to meet the needs of industry, so it is not an argument to dispense with the extraction of marine ores, but rather to invest in studies on its feasibility and to justify the comparison of the production of metals by extraction and recycling, to assess the impact of this activity, promoting technologies that ensure its sustainability.
we have a social obligation to enjoy the riches of our planet, under an environmental duty to do so in a sustainable way.
i would particularly stress its suitability and potential to generate the much needed sustainable responses in the economic, social and environmental fields which have been so badly hit.
the socialisation of profits for the benefit of the cooperative enterprise, the principles of equality between its members, the strong economic and social link with the environment in which they are integrated, and respect for industrial relations are values which, in the context of the intensification of neoliberal policies, must be defended and supported.
mr president, in a context of inexorable and progressive scarcity of resources and of increasing harmful accumulation in the environment of by-products resulting from their consumption, resource efficiency and the recovery and treatment of waste are unquestionably priority areas for intensifying research and development efforts.
innovation must be a key element of public policies in areas such as the environment, water, energy, agriculture, transport and others, but we must not forget that in many countries, and especially in those countries targeted by the european union and the imf, the limitation, and even the destruction, of technical and scientific capacity resulting from the so-called austerity policies irreparably compromise investment in this and other areas.
like parliament, the commission sees in the bioeconomy a convergence of opportunities and objectives: a smart use of our biological resources from land and seas; a low-carbon, resource-efficient economy; a reindustrialisation of europe based on innovation and the latest scientific knowledge; food security for all; and the development of new jobs and new sources of economic growth, not least in rural and maritime regions.
we must speed up work on the single market act proposals, on the digital single market, the internal energy market and the european research area.
only strong and far-reaching measures that restore confidence and put europe on the path to strong, smart, sustainable and inclusive growth will enable us to overcome the current economic and financial crisis.
- i welcome this report, taking into account that the current economic environment offers a good opportunity to modernise the staff regulations of officials of the european union so that they better reflect the demographic and economic reality of europe.
- i approve this report, taking into account that international civil liability in nuclear matters is governed by two instruments: the vienna convention and the 1960 paris convention on the civil liability of third parties in the field of nuclear energy.
the vienna convention was adopted to provide adequate and fair compensation to victims of damage caused by nuclear accidents by creating a special civil liability system in the field of nuclear energy.
the vienna convention establishes the necessary rules to ensure adequate and fair compensation for victims of damage caused by nuclear accidents by creating a special system of civil liability in the field of nuclear energy.
the vienna convention was adopted in 1963 with the aim of ensuring adequate and fair compensation for victims of damage caused by nuclear accidents in the field of nuclear energy.
it was amended by the 1997 protocol, which contains a new definition of nuclear damage, incorporating the concept of environmental damage and prevention measures, broadening the geographical scope, extending the period during which claims may be submitted, increasing the minimum amounts of compensation.
this protocol amending the vienna convention, adopted under the auspices of the international atomic energy agency, includes provisions on jurisdiction and on the recognition and enforcement of decisions affecting provisions contained in eu law.
the vienna convention was adopted to provide adequate and fair compensation to victims of damage caused by nuclear accidents by creating a special civil liability system in the field of nuclear energy.
the vienna convention was adopted to provide adequate and fair compensation for victims of damage caused by nuclear accidents by creating a special system of civil liability in the field of nuclear energy.
the draft council decision proposes to authorise certain member states to ratify or conclude the protocol to the vienna convention adopted on 12 september 1997 under the auspices of the international atomic energy agency.
council regulation (ec) no 659/1999 of 22 march 1999 codified and reinforced the commission's previous practice of increasing legal certainty and supporting the development of state aid policy in a transparent environment.
it must therefore pay particular attention to labour and environmental standards, passenger rights and compliance with european regulations.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to ionising radiation is a very good one.
this is of course without prejudice to labour and environmental standards, passenger rights and respect for european regulations.
on the external front, we must move forward with airline agreements with regions such as the middle east, asia and latin america, while respecting european standards on environmental, labour and regulatory issues, as well as passenger rights.
the declared exposure from the activities of member states' export credit agencies during 2011 amounted to more than eur 250 billion, including 260 transactions with high notified environmental implications.
this is particularly the case with regard to information on the non-financial elements of annex i, such as the treatment of environmental risks in the calculation of export credit agency premiums and compatibility with the union's external policy objectives.
− regulation no 1233/2011 aims to improve the transparency of export credit agencies (eca) by requiring member states to submit annual eca reports containing the following elements: information on assets and liabilities, payment claims settled and recoveries, new commitments, exposures and premiums received, as well as contingent liabilities that may arise from officially supported export credits; information on how environmental risks, which may entail other relevant risks, are taken into account in officially supported export credits; information on an assessment of the compatibility of eca with eu objectives and obligations.
this is particularly the case for information on non-financial elements such as the treatment of environmental risks.
credit activities are of great importance to member states in 2011 due to their total exposure of over eur 250 billion, including 260 transactions with significant notified environmental implications, which translate into significant trade and business opportunities for european companies.
i am in favour of this report because it allows for greater verification of the compatibility of export credit agencies with the objectives of the union's external action and provides the necessary information on the treatment of environmental risks in the calculation of export credit agencies' premiums.
− regulation no 1233/2011 expressly aims to improve the transparency of export credit agencies (eca) by requiring member states to submit annual eca reports with elements on assets and liabilities, payment claims settled and recoveries, new commitments, exposures and premiums collected, as well as contingent liabilities that may arise from officially supported export credits; on how environmental risks, which may entail other relevant risks, are taken into account in officially supported export credits; on an assessment of the compatibility of export credit agencies with eu objectives and obligations.
the foundations are active in areas as diverse as research, education, health, social action, the environment, heritage protection, culture, sport, etc.
− the number of public benefit foundations has been increasing, as has the range of operations (in areas such as education and research, arts and culture, social and health services and the environment), which are becoming more international in character.
through their different activities in a wide range of fields, they contribute to the fundamental values and objectives of the european union, such as respect for human rights, the protection of minorities, employment and social progress, the preservation and improvement of the environment or the promotion of scientific and technological progress.
in doing so, they contribute substantially to achieving the ambitious goal of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth as set out in the europe 2020 strategy and by promoting and facilitating a more active participation of citizens and civil society in the european project.
the european authorities are most concerned about working conditions on board and the ship's environmental impact.
as far as the vessel is concerned, we all know that run-down, rusty vessels with leaking fuel or oil are sources of pollution and real threats to the environment.
i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it represents a major step forward in the protection of people and the marine environment by strengthening the 2006 maritime convention and i call on the 15 member states which have not yet ratified it to do so quickly so that it can enter into force on 1 august.
ships which do not comply with the standards are inadmissible, because they undermine the rights of workers, but also their safety and security, as well as the protection of the environment.
failure to comply with these rules leads to unsafe conditions on board some ships, putting human lives and the marine environment at risk.
the aim of this proposal is to support and enforce roadworthiness testing of motor vehicles with a view to improving road safety and protecting the environment.
the aim of this proposal, which is part of the automotive technical inspection package, is to support and enforce the technical inspection of motor vehicles with a view to improving road safety and protecting the environment.
it also introduces the recognition of the validity of roadworthiness tests by all member states and limits the delegation of power to the commission to a renewable period of five years instead of an unlimited period.
the proposal aims to support and enforce roadworthiness testing of motor vehicles with a view to improving road safety and protecting the environment.
in order to be marketed, vehicles must meet the applicable requirements for type approval, which ensures an optimal level of safety and environmental performance standards.
the aim of this proposal, which is part of the automotive technical inspection package, is to support and enforce the technical inspection of motor vehicles with a view to improving road safety and protecting the environment.
− this report is part of a three-part package of reports, called the automotive technical inspection, which aims to harmonise the periodic, technical and road inspection of motor vehicles in order to increase road safety and environmental protection.
− on 13 july 2012, the european commission presented the automotive roadworthiness package with the aim of enhancing road safety, environmental protection and fair competition by improving the current requirements in the field of periodic roadworthiness tests, roadworthiness tests for commercial vehicles and vehicle registration.
furthermore, roadworthiness certificates and roadworthiness reports are required to have a standardised format across the eu and each company listed in the system should be assigned a risk profile according to a set of criteria relating to the inspections carried out on that company, in order to monitor more frequently who has a high risk profile with regard to road safety and environmental protection.
each company listed in the system should be assigned a risk profile according to a set of criteria relating to the inspections carried out on that company, in order to monitor more frequently those presenting a high risk profile with regard to road safety and environmental protection.
the european commission has presented new rules for vehicle roadworthiness testing which aim to further enhance road safety and ensure a high level of environmental protection by establishing common minimum standards for vehicle roadworthiness testing throughout the european union, with member states free to go further and introduce higher standards if they consider it appropriate.
the commission has presented new rules for vehicle roadworthiness testing which aim to improve road safety and ensure a high level of environmental protection.
− water pollution is one of the main environmental concerns expressed by eu citizens, which is why legislation must provide for appropriate means to maintain water quality and prevent water contamination.
the proposal we are now voting on amends the water framework directive and the environmental quality standards directive in order to update the list of priority substances in the field of water policy as required by the water framework directive.
given the technical nature of the proposal, i support the position of the rapporteur and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
this proposal amends the water framework directive and the environmental quality standards directive by updating the list of priority substances in the field of water policy as required by the framework directive every four years.
measures adopted in the context of the water framework directive aim at the progressive reduction of emissions of priority substances into the aquatic environment or, in the case of priority hazardous substances, their cessation or phasing out.
water pollution is one of the main environmental concerns expressed by eu citizens.
so, in addition to prevention through informed and sensitized public opinion, we must promote the necessary policies to combat water pollution.
− the adoption of appropriate measures to control chemical pollution is an important aspect of water resource management and quality assurance.
the environment committee of the european parliament voted a set of amendments which included new provisions in the european commission's proposal, making it more demanding, in particular with regard to the creation of a watch list for the monitoring of substances for which there is concern about their impact on public health and the environment.
− the adoption of this report updates the list of substances which pose a risk to the aquatic environment, with a view to ensuring better water quality.
this proposal amends the water framework directive and the environmental quality standards directive by updating the list of priority substances in the field of water policy as required by the framework directive at least every four years.
the water framework directive identifies a list of priority substances, including chemicals that pose a significant risk to the aquatic environment in the eu.
measures adopted in the context of the water framework directive aim at the progressive reduction of emissions of priority substances into the aquatic environment or, in the case of priority hazardous substances, their cessation or phasing out.
− chemical pollution is among the causes of the increasing pressure on the aquatic environment and on the quality and availability of clean drinking water for our society, so that the adoption of appropriate measures to control chemical pollution is a central aspect of the sustainable management of water resources.
the main changes to the proposal are: (a) introduction of new priority substances; (b) a cost-effective timetable and implementation; (c) introduction of a list of widely used substances with persistent, bioaccumulating and toxic characteristics; (d) introduction of a list of substances under surveillance; and (e) public awareness that measures to combat water pollution should not be seen as costly impositions from brussels but measures in the collective interest of citizens.
− the water framework directive, adopted in 2005, sets a target for the sustainability of water resources in terms of good ecological, chemical and quantitative status to be achieved by european water bodies by 2015. as required by this directive, the list of priority substances should be updated every four years.
in view of the above, i support the report which seeks to adopt appropriate measures to control chemical pollution in the aquatic environment.
− chemical pollution is among the causes of increasing pressure on the aquatic environment and on the quality and availability of clean drinking water for our society, so that the adoption of appropriate measures to control chemical pollution becomes a central aspect of the sustainable management of water resources.
− the european parliament's environment committee voted a set of amendments which included new provisions in the european commission's proposal, making it more demanding, notably with regard to the creation of a watch list for the monitoring of substances of concern for public health and the environment.
we reiterate our disagreements on the water framework directive and the need for further consideration of the problems associated with sources of pollution.
these are de minimis aid and aid for small and medium-sized enterprises, research and development, environmental protection and employment and training.
- i voted in favour of the report on the blue growth initiative, because it contains proposals which will make it possible to meet the challenges of ensuring sustainable development in the marine sector, maritime transport and tourism, contributing to the protection of the marine environment and the fight against climate change, as well as to the promotion of growth and employment.
it is imperative to recognise that on the one hand there are untapped resources and on the other hand the way some are exploited today puts at risk environmental sustainability and the survival of local and regional economies most directly linked to these sectors.
− the european commission presented a communication on 13 september 2012 entitled 'blue growth: opportunities for sustainable marine and maritime growth'.
europe is the first maritime area in the world whose sustainability should be at the heart of our concerns.
in fact, there are many areas with great potential for growth, such as: maritime, coastal and cruise tourism; blue biotechnology; marine mineral resources; aquaculture; blue energy, etc.
because this is a sector with great potential for growth and leverage for the european economy, i voted in favour of the report by spyros danellis on blue growth - improving sustainable growth in the european union's maritime sector, maritime transport and tourism, and i hope that by 2020 the objectives set by the europe 2020 strategy will be achieved.
− the sustainable use of the immense resource of the sea must undoubtedly be an integral part of a national project for endogenous development.
the report addresses important and positive aspects such as, among others, maritime and coastal spatial planning that takes account of local specificities and needs, the importance of and support for seabed mapping, the need to improve working conditions for seafarers and the safeguarding of europe's environmental and wildlife heritage.
there is ample scope for innovation and sustainable development in the maritime and coastal sectors, provided the appropriate institutional framework is in place.
these regions are key locations for experimentation and exploration in the areas of marine energy, offshore aquaculture, blue biotechnology, mining and as connecting points between europe and the world.
the regions must be made aware of the need to make a clear commitment to smart, inclusive and sustainable blue economy projects.
the report addresses important and positive aspects such as: maritime and coastal spatial planning taking into account local specificities and needs; the importance and support of seabed mapping; the need to improve working conditions for seafarers; the safeguarding of europe's environmental and wildlife heritage.
- i welcome this report, stressing that the cooperative model is appropriate and shows potential to generate the much-needed sustainable local responses in the hard-hit economic, social and environmental fields.
the committee on industry, research and energy, in view of the performance of cooperatives and the growing importance of this business model in the economic and social fabric of the member states, calls for the creation of a clearer and more coherent legislative framework in favour of cooperatives, stressing the need for capitalisation of cooperatives by means of ad hoc financial instruments at the level of the european union.
i also believe that collaborative networks between smes, such as those already existing in the eu in the form of cooperatives, should be encouraged, as these networks strengthen the creation and sustainability of micro and small enterprises, helping them to be a source of innovation.
the continuing increase in the world's population, the sharp increase in demand for food and energy and the scarcity of natural resources worldwide require europe to reflect on the new approach to be adopted in terms of production and consumption in order to respond to these new requirements in an effective and sustainable way.
the bio-economy thus presents a great opportunity to address these challenges by ensuring not only greater sustainability but also support for rural development, the potential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, greater sustainability of the production cycle and the diffusion of industrial innovation along the entire value chain.
- i voted in favour of the report on a bio-economy for europe, taking into account the potential of more environmentally sustainable economic development to promote job creation, efficient use of resources and the sustainability and innovation of production systems and consumption patterns.
- report on innovation for sustainable growth: the bioeconomy for europe the report by colleague paolo bartolozzi is on innovation for sustainable growth: a bio-economy for europe.
the continuing increase in the world's population, the sharp increase in demand for food and energy and the scarcity of natural resources worldwide require the union to reflect on the new approach to be taken in terms of production and consumption in order to respond to these new requirements in an effective and sustainable way.
this is a great opportunity to support rural development, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to make the production cycle more sustainable and to spread industrial innovation throughout the value chain.
i also believe that further progress in this direction should be encouraged by creating new models of production, consumption and development and more sustainable and effective lifestyles.
the link between the economy, the environment and the social is the formula for the process of growth and reindustrialisation in europe.
it advocates the need for research into assessing the limits of the sustainability of bio-resources, taking into account the functions of ecosystems and natural food chains as well as the human demand for food, a concern which we also share.
sustainable growth is mentioned, but there is no possible sustainability in the concept of capitalist growth.
the growing world population, the continuing growth in demand for food and energy and the scarcity of natural resources worldwide require europe to reflect on the new approach to be adopted in terms of production and consumption.
only then can we provide effective and sustainable responses to these new demands.
the bioeconomy offers a great opportunity to address these challenges by ensuring not only greater sustainability but also support for rural development, the potential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, greater sustainability of the production cycle and the diffusion of industrial innovation along the entire value chain.
− the continuing increase in the world's population, the sharp increase in demand for food and energy and the scarcity of natural resources worldwide require europe to reflect on the new approach to be adopted in terms of production and consumption in order to respond to these new requirements in an effective and sustainable way.
i voted in favour of this report which sets out measures to create new models of production, consumption and development and more sustainable and efficient lifestyles, thanks to a new synthesis between economy, environment and social quality, and points out measures which can reactivate the process of growth and reindustrialisation in europe.
− the use of biotic resources within the limits of ecosystem renewal defines the sustainability advocated in the new models of the smart bio-economy.
the bioeconomy allows for the production of industrial and consumer raw materials at lower costs, using less energy and generating less environmental pollution, which in turn strengthens the competitiveness of industries and increases economic growth and employment levels.
in the light of the rapporteur's comments, i supported the report's call for greater progress in encouraging the development of sustainable lifestyles in order to meet the demographic and climate requirements of the new century.
the european commission has published a position paper entitled 'innovation for sustainable growth: a bio-economy for europe' which aims to leverage bio-economy activities for economic growth and job creation at european level.
i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that we need to move towards a smart, sustainable and inclusive bioeconomy in line with the europe 2020 strategy, supporting innovation and investment in new techniques and business models.
it advocates the need for research into assessing the limits of sustainability of biotic resources, taking into account the functions of ecosystems and natural food chains, as well as the human demand for food - a concern we share.
− the negotiations on the mff for 2014-2020 are taking place in a very adverse social, economic and financial context, in which member states are making considerable efforts to adjust their national budgets with a view to the sustainability of public finances and the stability of the banking sector and the single currency.
− i approve this report, taking into account that at international level the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) is developing harmonised requirements to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties to the revised 1958 agreement and to ensure that vehicles offer a high level of safety and environmental protection.
having regard to the opinion of the inta committee which proposes its adoption, i voted in favour of this draft recommendation, since the aim is to simplify and speed up the voting process for the regulations of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece), harmonising the legislation of the european union in order to eliminate any technical problems which may hinder the trade of the above vehicles, thus contributing to improving the safety of people and protecting the environment.
− at international level, the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) develops harmonised requirements to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties to the revised 1958 agreement and to ensure that vehicles offer a high level of safety and environmental protection.
− at international level, the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) develops harmonised requirements to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties to the 1958 agreement and ensures that vehicles offer a high level of safety and environmental protection.
such regulation concerns trade in motor vehicles, and refers in particular to standards ensuring a high level of road safety and environmental protection for vehicles traded.
simplification and adoption of legislation will ensure a high level of safety and environmental protection worldwide.
− at international level, the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) develops harmonised requirements to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties to the revised 1958 agreement and to ensure that vehicles offer a high level of safety and environmental protection.
− at international level, the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) is developing harmonised requirements to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties to the revised 1958 agreement and to ensure that vehicles offer a high level of safety and environmental protection.
having regard to the opinion of the inta committee which proposes its adoption, i voted in favour of this draft recommendation as the aim is to simplify and speed up the voting process for unece regulations, harmonising european union legislation in order to eliminate any technical problems which may hinder the trade of the above vehicles, thus contributing to improving the safety of people and protecting the environment.
− at international level, the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) develops harmonised requirements to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties to the revised 1958 agreement and to ensure that vehicles offer a high level of safety and environmental protection.
such regulation concerns trade in motor vehicles, and refers in particular to standards ensuring a high level of road safety and environmental protection for vehicles traded.
− at international level, the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) develops harmonised requirements to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties to the revised 1958 agreement and to ensure that vehicles offer a high level of safety and environmental protection.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
mr president, i support the general measures for environmental protection and i am in favour of the carbon market.
− i voted in favour as it is essential that the ets is kept as the main market-based instrument to fight against climate change.
i was persuaded by three important amendments: an amendment ensuring that intervention in the market is ‘a one-off’; a second amendment requiring an assessement to determine whether the measure would result in ‘carbon leakage’, i.e.
businesses leaving the union to avoid the higher permit price; and a third amendment creating a fund to enhance industrial innovation and develop innovative low carbon technologies.
the european union has been at the forefront of the global fight against greenhouse gas emissions.
what it must aim for is therefore a fair balance between the needs of environmental protection, economic revitalisation and job creation, supply and demand.
the report by mr matthias groote deals with the timing of greenhouse gas emission allowance auctions.
the excess of co2 allowances, due to the economic slowdown and the fact that supply has been higher than demand, has led to a decline in the carbon price to levels never expected when the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) was created.
this reduction in the carbon price is insufficient to drive sufficiently sustainable scientific and technological innovation and has thus become a factor in reducing incentives to invest in low-carbon technologies.
i agree with this proposal, in that it aims to allow the commission to freeze or postpone part of the auctions for co2 emission allowances in order to increase the price of these allowances and to encourage the development of technologies to reduce emissions in the fight against climate change.
- after its rejection in april, this report has been returned to the environment committee of the european parliament and is now back for a vote in plenary.
we reiterate that we are facing the consequences of the operation of a perverse and ineffective mechanism - the ets/carbon market.
the problem is fundamental, it has to do with the emissions trading system itself, with its principles and (market) foundations, and no cosmetic operation, such as the one now attempted, can solve it entirely.
we advocate replacing a market approach with a normative and regulatory approach, in a framework for reducing emissions that does not depend on or feed into financial speculation.
in both the 2005-2007 and 2008-2012 periods, the ets did not reduce emissions.
i think it would be prudent to find a solution that would appeal both to industry, which is now more in need in the face of the crisis we are going through, and to environmentalists and renewable energy advocates.
− the emissions trading system (ets) has created the first and largest carbon market and a carbon price at eu level.
currently, due to the significant impact of unexpected macroeconomic developments, the carbon price has decreased considerably.
as a consequence, the combination of increased supply with reduced demand led to decreased prices in the carbon market.
− the eu emissions trading scheme is a key instrument for reducing eu industrial emissions cost-effectively.
despite seeing emissions decline since its inception, the system is currently facing serious imbalances.
the current economic crisis, combined with a significant influx of external credits from the clean development mechanism (cdm) for reducing emissions, as well as a number of regulatory provisions relating to the transition to the third trading period (2013-2020) have led to a significant excess of allowances.
- after its rejection in april, this report has been returned to the environment committee of the european parliament and is now back for a vote in plenary.
we reiterate that we are facing the consequences of the operation of a perverse and ineffective mechanism - the ets/carbon market.
we advocate replacing a market approach with a normative and regulatory approach, in a framework for reducing emissions that does not depend on or feed into financial speculation.
based on the rapid alert and response system for communicable diseases established in 1998, the commission proposal sets out measures to strengthen the european union's response capacity in preventing serious crossborder health threats and to equip it with means, networks and structures, complementary to those already available, to combat threats, by extending the risk assessment and coordination measures currently applied to communicable diseases to all health threats of biological, chemical or environmental origin, by strengthening the role of the health security committee with a view to better coordination of crisis management measures, by improving crisis management preparedness, by requiring each member state to draw up, consolidate and maintain updated national preparedness and response plans for crossborder health crises, by coordinating with the european commission and other member states and by recognising the possibility of taking joint action to combat a crisis situation, by accelerating the adoption of the necessary measures to combat the crisis and by coordinating with the european commission and the other member states the possibility of taking emergency measures to combat a crisis situation, by strengthening the role of the health security committee with a view to better coordination of current crisis management measures, by requiring each member state to draw up, consolidate and keep up to date its national plans for preparedness and response to health crises, in a coordinated manner, and by the european commission and by the other member states, the possibility of taking action necessary measures to combat a crisis.
these threats do not know national or geographical borders and may affect sectors other than health, such as civil protection, energy and transport.
− over the past few years, member states have supported the recapitalisation of several banks, injecting millions of euros into them to make them sustainable and prevent their collapse.
- i voted in favour of this report because i consider it normal that if latvia meets the convergence criteria, it can join the euro on 1 january 2014. the sustainability of the macroeconomic and financial situation will now depend on the implementation of balanced and far-reaching reforms aimed at combining discipline and solidarity with sustainable long-term investments, not only in latvia but also in the economic and monetary union as a whole.
only then can the overall sustainability of the macroeconomic and financial situation be achieved.
some structural challenges remain identified, such as the stability of its financial system (although it accounts for a small share of the country's gdp), high unemployment and labour market problems, lack of awareness among the latvian people about the adoption of the single currency, over-dependence on russia for energy, and structural inequalities and poverty, to which the country should pay due attention.
some structural challenges remain, such as the stability of its financial system (despite representing a small share of the country's gdp), high unemployment and labour market problems, the lack of awareness among the latvian people about the adoption of the single currency, excessive energy dependence on russia, structural inequalities and poverty.
the report recommends that latvia should implement balanced and far-reaching reforms aimed at combining discipline and solidarity with sustainable long-term investments.
only then can the overall sustainability of the macroeconomic and financial situation be achieved.
and last but not least, there is also a positive impact on the environment.
stresses furthermore that investments in flood prevention under the relevant programmes require adequate financial resources, as this is an important instrument enabling member state governments to develop and implement flood prevention policies; and stressed that investments in support of disaster prevention should follow an ecosystem-based approach.
the recurrence of these floods draws our attention to the whole problem of climate change and calls for preventive and mitigating measures.
- i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on floods in europe, which sets out measures to prevent these disasters, and in which i stress the call on the commission and the member states to pay particular attention to the planning and review of policies on sustainable land use, ecosystem absorption capacities and best practices, and to the enhancement of the capacity of flood control and drainage systems in order to prevent the severe floods that occur throughout the union.
in this context, the commission considers it urgent to strengthen the capacity to prevent natural disasters, urging member states to pay particular attention to planning and reviewing spatial planning policies in order to make them more sustainable.
it is urgently necessary to undertake the reconstruction of areas destroyed or damaged by disasters in order to repair the related economic, social and environmental losses and impacts.
investing in sustainable health systems and people’s health and reducing inequalities is decisive for economic growth.
it called for broad access to affordable and high-quality services, such as social and health services, child care, housing and energy supply.
the annual growth survey also called for ensuring the cost effectiveness and sustainability of healthcare services by assessing their performance against the twin aim of a more efficient use of public resources and access to high quality health care.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the new amf procedure will support the government's economic reform agenda aimed at reducing the financial vulnerability still facing the economy, as well as supporting short-term reform measures aimed at achieving a more sustainable balance of payments and fiscal position in the medium term.
one aspect to be taken into account is the need for trade liberalisation which can benefit our economy, although there are sectors such as water, energy, waste collection, among others, which are considered basic services and whose privatisation must be carefully considered.
it is moving with objectives that the commission should take into account when negotiating market access commitments: promoting an ambitious agenda for eu offending interests, notably in business services, ict services, financial and legal services, e-commerce, maritime and air transport services, environmental services, tourism and construction.
the european parliament considers it essential that an impact assessment be carried out and calls on the commission to put into practice its intention to carry out a sustainability impact assessment and to consult relevant stakeholders on social, environmental and other concerns.
the deepening of the digital single market will benefit both individual citizens and businesses through smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the funds should be increased to support productive activity, especially in the countries facing the most difficulties, to create jobs with rights, to combat poverty and exclusion, to research and development and to protect the environment.
i also support the europe 2020 growth strategy, which aims to create the right policy framework to develop businesses, create jobs, raise living standards and develop a sustainable economy, and where i stress the need to improve the macroeconomic environment of industry by improving access to capital, creating better infrastructure, protecting property rights and supporting, in particular, smes in order to improve their competitiveness and access to new markets.
i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution because economic governance, in addition to balancing public accounts, must seek to consolidate the functioning of the single market, develop a green economy by promoting biodiversity and combating climate change, build a europe of citizens through a more cohesive and inclusive society, develop an economy based on natural resources such as those from agriculture and fisheries, and boost international trade and external relations.
deepening integration into the eu and the emu through the mechanisms of economic governance, banking union, europe 2020, the deepening of the single market in the energy sectors and all modes of transport and telecommunications will lead to the destruction of services, more business closures, redundancies, unemployment and greater precariousness and exploitation in labour relations, lower wages and pensions, more poverty and misery.
− i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the european parliament's priorities for the commission's work programme for 2014 which reiterates support for the europe 2020 growth strategy, which aims to create the right policy framework to develop businesses, create jobs, raise living standards and develop a sustainable economy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
deepening integration into the eu and the emu through the mechanisms of economic governance, banking union, europe 2020, the deepening of the single market in the energy sectors and all modes of transport and telecommunications will lead to the destruction of services, more business closures, redundancies, unemployment and greater precariousness and exploitation in labour relations, lower wages and pensions, more poverty and misery.
mr president, we have long been warning of the problem of land use change caused by various sectoral policies and of its social and environmental consequences, both in europe and on other continents, and especially in the developing countries.
in the field of energy policy options, which includes the issue of biofuels, in addition to all that has been said here, the debate sometimes tends to evade a central issue: the unsustainability of energy flows and consumption associated with the current economic system, which is largely dominant on a world scale.
the energy question facing mankind is undoubtedly a difficult and complex one, which discourages the commercial and propaganda voluntarisms which tend to shape policy choices in this as in other fields.
the diversification of sources, the focus on renewables, research and development are certainly part of the way forward, but they are not a miraculous solution to environmental problems if we do not get to the heart of the problem, if we maintain an irrational economic system and the irrational energy demand associated with it.
this is the report that looks forward to the celebration that will follow the implementation of the third energy package - the celebration of liberalisation, of sacrosanct competitiveness and free competition.
but who is celebrating, who is benefiting and has always benefited from the privatization of public energy services?
mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate mr buzek on his excellent report on the internal energy market and i would also like to stress the importance of the subject of micro-generation and thank mrs merkies for the initiative.
i welcome the principles contained in the buzek report of creating an integrated, open, well-regulated and competitive internal energy market.
an integrated internal market, together with investment in science and research to develop new technologies, will ensure clean, cheap and affordable energy for all european citizens.
clean and affordable energy is a key objective for the competitiveness of european industry and for the well-being of people.
the aim: to defend the implementation of the third energy package.
the strategic, economic, social and environmental importance of forests in the european union is unquestionable.
i believe that the european funds for 2014-2020 should support and stimulate intervention and prevention measures, as well as the necessary reforestation policies, which bring economic and environmental value with the aim of making forests profitable and, at the same time, promoting biodiversity and combating climate change.
rural people are becoming poorer and abandoning their land, forests are disappearing and biodiversity is declining.
mr president, innovation is unquestionably essential to create, as the report says, a smarter and safer transport system, ensuring easy, sustainable and safe mobility.
an attack which has led to a 20% decrease in the use of public transport over the last two years, which has worsened the quality of transport, reduced safety, comfort, regularity and speed, which has raised the price sharply, which has attacked the right of people to mobility, which has promoted the use of individual transport and thus increased energy consumption, thus calling into question the sustainability which this report claims to defend.
and yet some of those who approve of these fine recommendations on sustainability are the same ones who support and promote this offensive against the populations and public transport.
as cohesion policy is one of the main sources of support to get the eu back on track towards the energy efficiency target and while the eu budget negotiations are still ongoing, it is essential that the financial commitment comes out stronger if europe is to meet its energy efficiency targets.
its benefits, already recognised in the eu, face the objective of reducing total energy consumption by 20% by 2020, in which policies to promote energy efficiency can and should play a more prominent role.
improvements in energy efficiency are crucial for europe's competitiveness and a win-win option in the fight against climate change.
investment in energy efficiency measures can bring immediate benefits to households and businesses, such as cost reductions, job creation and growth opportunities for all regions of europe including the outermost and the outermost regions.
the european union and the member states share this need and share the same concern about the risks of non-renewal of marine organism populations and the consequent depletion of available fisheries resources and irreversible damage to biological diversity and the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
intra-european mobility must seek to reconcile passenger comfort, technological research and innovation, environmental balance and the promotion of job creation in the transport sector.
− the transport technology strategy for future sustainable mobility in europe should promote quality of service, comfort for passengers and businesses and the use of sustainable mobility, building on the union's objectives and legislation on reducing energy consumption, traffic noise, air pollutants and greenhouse gases.
in the light of the commission communication, parliament is moving forward with guidelines for a transport technology strategy for future sustainable mobility.
a strategy to promote quality of service, passenger comfort and the use of sustainable mobility, based on the objectives of reducing energy consumption, noise and air pollution, as well as improving health and quality of life and enhancing safety.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
− we should all be concerned with achieving the union's objectives in terms of reducing energy consumption, traffic noise, air pollutants, ghg emissions, accidents, and land use, thereby reducing the impact of transport on climate change and contributing to improving the health and quality of life of eu citizens.
it is urgent to make europe's transport technology strategy as efficient as possible in order to achieve economic, environmental and social gains, promoting sustainable growth and job creation.
only with a large investment in research and innovation will sustainable mobility in europe be possible, with its inherent benefits at all levels, including in terms of economic growth and job creation.
it is necessary to reduce the impact of transport on climate change, contributing to improving the health and quality of life of eu citizens.
− the report assesses the commission communication on research and innovation for europe's future mobility, recognising that the commission has identified weaknesses in the transport innovation system in europe that delay the union's response in the context of a low-carbon transport economy, a safer transport system, and the reduction of noise and air pollutants, which have such an impact on the health and quality of life of european citizens.
− transport is one of the most important factors in the fight against climate change, due to its high co2 emissions.
the coordination of research and innovation with transport policy is essential for the future sustainable mobility of the union.
− following the european commission's communication, parliament is moving forward with guidelines for a transport technology strategy for a sustainable future of mobility.
a strategy that aims to promote quality of service, passenger comfort and the use of sustainable mobility, based on the objectives of reducing energy consumption, noise and air pollution, as well as improving health and quality of life and enhancing safety.
in this sense, from now on, anyone who wants to buy a house will get detailed information on the conditions of the loan to be acquired, with impartial advice on credit conditions, a cooling-off period, as well as a long-term analysis of the sustainability and solvency of the bond.
in this sense, from now on, anyone who wants to buy a house will receive detailed information on the conditions of the loan to be acquired, with impartial advice on the credit conditions, a cooling-off period, as well as a long-term analysis of the sustainability and solvency of the bond.
in this sense, from now on, anyone who wants to buy a house will get detailed information on the conditions of the loan to be acquired, with impartial advice on credit conditions, a cooling-off period, as well as a long-term analysis of the sustainability and solvency of the bond.
i believe that financial literacy needs to be improved, in particular by providing more and better information on the interest rates that are available to citizens, the exchange rate risks involved in transactions or changes in the economic climate that ultimately harm the businesses concerned.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
- i voted in favour of this report, which calls for the need for a complete integration and interconnection of the energy market, in order to reduce costs and focus on renewable energy and energy efficiency and smart buildings.
in my view, a stronger european internal energy market will result in security of supply, lower energy costs for consumers and industry and, in the end, contribute to a more sustainable economy.
− an open, competitive, integrated and flexible european energy market will maintain security of supply and achieve lower and more transparent prices, improving european competitiveness and contributing to economic growth and consumer welfare.
end-users are at the heart of the internal energy market and must be adequately protected and informed through facilitated access to information in order to enable them to fully exercise their rights and to encourage them to play a more active role in stimulating market competitiveness.
the lack of full implementation of legislation relating to the internal energy market remains one of the main obstacles to the completion of this market.
in this regard, member states should fully transpose and implement all relevant eu legislation, in particular the third energy package, as soon as possible, and the european commission should take action against member states where implementation has been unduly delayed.
- i welcome the principles included in the buzek report of creating an integrated, open, well-regulated and competitive internal energy market.
an integrated internal market, together with investment in science and research to develop new technologies, will ensure clean, cheap and affordable energy for all european citizens.
affordable energy for all is a key objective for the competitiveness of european industry and for the well-being of people.
− sustainable growth without undermining competitiveness requires a consistent energy policy, the proper functioning of the internal energy market and the development of national projects that contribute to the community's objectives of reducing emissions and increasing energy independence and clean energy production.
− member states have committed themselves to meeting the deadlines for the full completion of the internal energy market by 2014 and for the abolition of energy islands in the eu by 2015. indeed, a completed internal energy market is indispensable for the union's energy security and sustainability and is also key to competitiveness, economic growth and job creation in the union.
the aim is to improve coordination and cooperation of energy policies between member states in a spirit of solidarity and to create efficient and secure cross-border energy systems, which will represent a major european added value.
there is no doubt that the development of domestic resources will give rise to new trading platforms in the eu, as well as to the spot markets for gas and electricity, which represents a real opportunity for the eu and the member states to determine their own energy prices, including at regional and local level.
the liberal and commercial propaganda is here explained to the last detail in defence of the implementation of the third energy package.
but who is celebrating, who is benefiting and has always benefited from the privatization of public energy services?
it was not the workers, it was not the small and medium-sized enterprises, it was not the households, who were dealing with substantial increases in their energy bills.
− the european internal energy market and the respective national energy markets must be competitive and offer genuine choice and transparent information to all consumers, who play a central role in the energy market.
the completion of the internal energy market is also essential to reduce energy prices and costs and to achieve affordable and competitive prices in the short, medium and long term.
there can be european added value through better coordination and cooperation of energy policies between member states in a spirit of solidarity and through the creation of efficient and secure cross-border energy systems, thus generating synergies through better management of energy supply and demand, facilitated by smart technologies at the distribution system level.
the internal energy market must function properly if final consumers are to derive the greatest benefit from it.
- i voted in favour of the buzek report on the internal energy market because there can be no single european market without an integrated energy market, given the importance of energy.
only an internal energy market can guarantee access to energy for eu businesses and citizens on equal terms throughout the union.
for the union to fully achieve these objectives, it is essential to ensure the completion and deployment of fully connected cross-border energy networks and efficient energy transmission infrastructures that eradicate energy islands in the eu.
this applies from the outset to the iberian peninsula and to cross-border energy connections.
the eu should explore the possibility of creating a european investment fund, as proposed in the report, financed by a compulsory contribution from energy consumption, a point which, however, did not receive the necessary majority.
the single energy market requires direct involvement of the union and sources of own financing.
- i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on the functioning of the internal energy market because i agree with most of its premises.
an open, competitive, integrated and flexible european energy market will maintain security of supply and lower and more transparent prices, enhance european competitiveness and contribute to economic growth and consumer welfare, and it is therefore urgent to remove the remaining physical, regulatory and administrative barriers that hinder the open and efficient functioning of the market.
− considering how essential the completion of the internal energy market is for the union's energy security and sustainability, the roadmap outlines an energy policy based on three fundamental pillars: reducing dependence on fossil fuel imports, which exposes countries to the market power of their sole supplier, whose pricing policy does not always follow a market logic; promoting energy efficiency, including the modernisation of the distribution network, fully integrated in a european context, and intelligent cross-border; and investing in technology and innovation, leading to the development of cheaper, more effective and simpler technologies.
to this end, it is imperative to make sufficient funding available for the development of the internal market, whether through the use of regional development funds, cohesion funds or other structural funds to help with future energy and climate challenges.
northern and eastern europe are dependent on gas imports from a single source, the member states remain an energy island due to insufficient infrastructure links with the rest of europe, and investment in the energy sector is at historically low levels.
− an internal energy market is only possible if member states fully transpose and implement union legislation, in particular the third energy package.
a more effective effort and coordination by the union, the member states and third countries is therefore needed for a genuine internal energy market.
this is the report that looks forward to the celebration of the implementation of the third energy package.
but who is celebrating, who is benefiting and has always benefited from the privatization of public energy services?
we do not agree that public funds are invested only to satisfy private interests when energy resources should be in the public domain.
i also believe that energy efficiency measures within cohesion policy represent a great potential for this objective, contributing in the long term to the sustainable economy of regions and member states and in the short term to economic growth through investment in energy.
− energy efficiency, a key priority for the european commission and the member states, is at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, with one of its objectives being to increase energy efficiency by 20%.
reducing consumption through energy efficiency is the most sustainable way to reduce dependence on fossil fuels, leading to a reduction in imports of around 25%.
thus, local and regional authorities must be given appropriate powers and responsibilities, not only in relation to energy supply and use, but also in relation to the achievement of energy efficiency objectives.
member states should introduce simple and non-bureaucratic procedures in their operational programmes for the use of funds intended to improve energy efficiency in households.
they should also share best practices in designing national energy efficiency funds, where european structural and investment funds can be used as capital contributions.
the european commission should continue to improve the quality and dissemination of practical information on energy efficiency available to local and regional authorities.
− in a region of the world with a large energy deficit, the issue of energy efficiency is of strategic importance and cannot therefore fail to be seriously considered by european and national policy-makers.
the energy available to the union should be used prudently and efficiently in order to prevent and prevent, as far as technically possible, its waste and misuse.
europe's potential for energy efficiency is not being realised.
energy efficiency measures under cohesion policy have not had a uniform effect throughout the union and are far from being considered an absolute success.
the commission has therefore decided to continue with the work already started and to maintain and strengthen the energy efficiency measures under this policy.
− at the heart of the eu strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, the benefits of energy efficiency have long been recognised in the eu.
however, the eu faces a huge challenge in meeting its target of reducing total energy consumption by 20% by 2020, in which policies to promote energy efficiency can and should play a more decisive role.
energy efficiency requires the use of fewer means of energy production for an equivalent level of service or economic activity.
reducing consumption through energy efficiency is the most sustainable way to reduce dependence on fossil fuels, thus leading to a reduction in imports of around 25%.
the european structural and investment funds should contribute to encouraging private investment in energy-efficient products, transport modes, buildings, industries, works and services, and can also help to reduce the costs of energy bills for public authorities and allow for a more efficient use of public resources.
− the eu strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth is very important and the benefits of energy efficiency have long been recognised in the eu.
the challenge to meet its target of reducing total energy consumption by 20% by 2020 is great, in which policies to promote energy efficiency can and should play a more active role.
improvements in energy efficiency are crucial for europe's competitiveness and a win-win option in the fight against climate change.
investment in energy efficiency measures can bring immediate and tangible benefits to households and businesses, such as cost reductions, the creation of employment and growth opportunities, and an incentive to transition to a low-carbon economy.
− the benefits of energy efficiency have long been recognised in the eu.
however, the eu faces a huge challenge in meeting its target of reducing total energy consumption by 20% by 2020, in which policies to promote energy efficiency can and should play a more decisive role.
improvements in energy efficiency are crucial for europe's competitiveness and a win-win option in the fight against climate change.
investment in energy efficiency measures can bring immediate and tangible benefits to households and businesses, such as cost reductions, the creation of employment and growth opportunities, and an incentive to transition to a low-carbon economy.
− in the synthesis report on the implementation of the european semester, the president of the council concludes that the observations of the national delegations suggest that the negative factors in the development of energy efficiency were more practical than regulatory in nature, in particular inadequate information and financial incentives, low profile of energy efficiency and inadequate implementation of existing legislation.
the report on the implementation of energy efficiency measures thus meets the eu's commitment to increase energy efficiency by 20% by 2020 through timely and cost-effective implementation, which has the potential to significantly reduce energy consumption and dependence on fossil fuel imports, create new jobs, provide social protection and eradicate energy poverty.
i voted in favour of the report which proposes a clear exercise of the obligations of energy efficiency measures in the implementation procedures, that is, of operational programmes which ensure tangible results.
− a part of the european union's structural funds is allocated to energy efficiency aspects, mainly at the level of buildings.
this is indeed a cohesion policy vector that is becoming increasingly important, and this will be confirmed in the next programming period from 2014 to 2020. in the next period up to 2020, cohesion policy should not only take into account the effects achieved so far in the field of energy efficiency, but also deliver on the objectives in this field in line with the european, national and regional objectives under cohesion policy.
− the report aims to encourage more projects in the area of energy efficiency under cohesion policy.
− promoting the establishment of a union strategy on fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian sea basin could provide an important stimulus to the development of sustainable economic activities in that region, which could have a positive impact on coastal communities and adjacent inland areas.
− this report aims to promote the development of a new european union strategy in the fisheries and aquaculture sectors in the adriatic and ionian seas basin, in order to give a substantial boost to the development of sustainable activities with positive effects on coastal communities and inland border areas.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union strategy for fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian seas, with the aim of developing economically sustainable activities for the benefit of coastal communities and adjacent inland areas.
− the aim of this report is to promote the development of a new european union strategy for fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian seas basin, with the aim of substantially boosting the development of sustainable economic activities with positive effects on coastal communities and inland border areas.
riverside countries currently share many resources, including fisheries resources, and therefore face a number of challenges directly or indirectly linked to the development of the fisheries and aquaculture sector, such as sea pollution, coastal erosion, differences in economic development of coastal areas and increasing urbanisation.
- the aim of this report is to promote a new european union strategy for fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian sea basins, which will substantially boost the development of sustainable activities with positive impacts on the coastal communities of these sea basins.
this important maritime zone encompasses seven countries with strong social and economic links, although with considerable environmental, cultural, social and economic heterogeneity.
this group of countries shares a range of resources and faces similar challenges in their fisheries and aquaculture sectors, which makes it absolutely vital to foster international cooperation between neighbouring countries to promote sustainable exploitation and joint and coherent management of fisheries and aquaculture activities.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the measures proposed can promote a balanced and sustainable development of fisheries and aquaculture activities in this important geographical area.
the objective is to promote the development of sustainable and responsible economic activities whose beneficial effect does not compromise the protection of fishery resources and the specific geomorphological and bathymetric characteristics of the adriatic-ionian basin.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union strategy for fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian seas, with the aim of developing economically sustainable activities for the benefit of coastal communities and adjacent inland areas.
the report revealed an inefficient use of interpretation services and a need for greater awareness of the costs of interpretation and the waste of resources.
the report revealed an inefficient use of interpretation services and a need for greater awareness of the costs of interpretation and the waste of resources.
that is the intention of this report, so that we can have community legislation to enable the sustainable growth of this economic activity, which may prove very important in terms of tax revenue for the member states.
the rule of law is incompatible with sectors or activities exempt from compliance with the law and therefore the union and the states cannot fail to enforce compliance with it, regardless of the environment in which such activity is carried out.
we cannot abandon our young people and we cannot waste our human resources and our talents.
cohesive multilingual societies that manage their linguistic diversity in a democratic and sustainable way contribute to plurality, are more open and have better conditions to integrate the richness represented by linguistic diversity.
- i voted in favour of this report, considering that the european environment agency is the only european agency in which the european parliament is not asked to give its opinion on the appointment of its directors, and this report is intended to rectify this situation so that the appointment is also put to the european parliament's prior consideration.
- i am voting in favour of this report because i think that the european parliament should have the formal right to hear the candidate selected for this post by the management board of the european environment agency before his appointment.
- i think it is appropriate that the executive director of the european environment agency should be heard before the european parliament as part of the dignity of this parliament, which is why i am voting in favour of this report.
− the purpose of this report is to ask the commission, on the basis of article 225 of the treaty, to submit a legislative proposal amending article 9 of regulation (ec) no 401/2009 on the european environment agency.
the requirement is, however, contained in the regulations establishing other agencies, namely the european chemicals agency, the european medicines agency and the european food safety authority, which also fall within the remit of parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the report is simply intended to allow the future nominee for the european environment agency to be heard by the competent body of the european parliament, in this case the environment committee.
− the purpose of this report is to ask the commission, on the basis of article 225 of the treaty, to submit a legislative proposal to amend article 9 of regulation (ec) no 401/2009 on the european environment agency, as that regulation describes the procedure for appointing the executive director of the eea and does not currently provide for any requirement that the candidate selected by the eea board of directors appear before the competent body of the european parliament before his appointment, which needs to be amended.
- this report intends that, before the appointment of an executive director for the european environment agency, the candidate should be heard in parliament, in the committee responsible.
− the european environment agency is headed by an executive director who is appointed by the management board on the basis of a list of candidates proposed by the commission following a call for expressions of interest published in the official journal of the european union and other written media or on the internet.
the aim of the proposal is to harmonise the procedure for appointing the executive director of the european environment agency with other procedures used in other agencies.
− the promotion of biofuels has been one of the key elements of eu policy as they not only increase the sustainability of transport but also improve the security of energy supply and support economic development.
the amendment to the renewable energy directive aims to minimise the impact of indirect land use change on greenhouse gas emissions.
− the renewable energy directive set the objective of achieving an overall 20% share of energy from renewable sources in the eu and a 10% share of this type of energy in the transport sector by 2020. such targets are ambitious but necessary to consolidate greater independence from fossil fuels.
today we have adopted a balanced text which, while not undermining the clean energy objectives, does not place too much pressure on european industry.
− with this vote, the european parliament is arguing that the share of energy from conventional or first generation biofuels, produced from cereals and other starch-rich crops and sugar, oil and other energy crops grown on land, should not exceed 6% of final energy consumption in transport by 2020. the target for 2020 is currently set at 10%.
the share of energy from advanced or second-generation biofuels, such as those produced from algae or waste, shall represent at least 2,5% of the final energy consumption in the transport sector in 2020. i am calling for the greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the increasing use of agricultural land for biofuel production to be taken into account.
− the renewable energy directive set a target of 20% of energy from renewable sources in the eu and 10% of energy from renewable sources in transport by 2020. at the same time, the fuel quality directive sets a binding target of 6% reduction in the greenhouse gas intensity of fuels used in road transport and non-road mobile machinery.
- i voted for the lepage report on amendments to the renewable energy directive to reduce the mandatory quotas for first generation biofuels (produced from food species such as maize) and to favour second generation biofuels (waste, for example), because the regime in force so far has proved to put pressure on food prices and on harmful land use (deforestation and environmental degradation).
the need to correct that directive shows the costs and the damage that can be caused by a certain ecological fundamentalism, based more on dogma and fashions than on informed judgement and informed choices.
− the promotion of biofuels has been one of the key elements of eu energy and climate change policy.
the reasons for this are varied and sensitive: biofuels not only increase the sustainability of transport but also improve the security of energy supply and support economic development by creating new sources of income in rural areas.
the main driver of its development has been the fight against climate change.
on the basis of these assumptions, i voted in favour of the european parliament's legislative resolution of 11 september 2013 on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 98/70/ec on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and directive 2009/28/ec on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, in line with the line of the epp group.
− the europe 2020 strategy aims to have around 20% of the total energy consumed in the european union come from renewable sources, and it should be noted that in the automotive sector this figure should represent at least 10% of final energy consumption.
i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that it is necessary to diversify renewable energy sources and to focus more and more on different energy sources, as they contribute to greater environmental sustainability and to reducing greenhouse gases.
it should also be stressed that the automotive industry must have time to adapt to these changes in the energy sector and that the european investment bank should be particularly important in providing finance for the industrial changes that will need to be developed in the future.
− member states are obliged to use 10% renewable energy in transport by 2020, coupled with a 6% reduction in ghg emissions, leading to increased demand for biofuels.
the commission recognises the reality of the aius phenomenon but, instead of proposing the integration of the aius factor in the calculations for reducing greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions, it proposes a 5% limit for biofuels from food crops.
it also proposes a rapid switch to advanced biofuels from waste and waste products for which land use change is considered to be nil.
data on raw materials for the production of these biofuels are still scarce and there is a backlog of safeguards and sustainability criteria to avoid negative economic and environmental consequences.
− the european eel stock is facing a multitude of problems: overfishing, loss of key habitats, pollution, parasites, changes in ocean currents as a result of global climate change, etc.
the stock is outside safe biological limits and the current fishing activities are not sustainable.
− the conservation of species is one of the eu's major concerns, as this is the only way to maintain a sustainable and economically viable ecosystem.
the european eel population is facing a multitude of problems: overfishing, loss of key habitats, pollution, parasites, changes in ocean currents as a result of global climate change, etc.
the european eel stock is currently facing a range of problems: overfishing, loss of key habitats, pollution, parasites, changes in ocean currents due to climate change, and others related to the eel's own biology and management, all of which require a response from the european union, as highlighted in the document.
the union customs code seeks to ensure the necessary balance between the aspects of supervision and control by the customs authorities of the member states, which is important for the protection of the financial interests of the european union and its member states and the safety and security of the eu and its residents, human and animal health, the environment and consumers.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
it also proposes a renewable five-year period and the submission of a report at the end of the five years.
− the directive 2011/92/eu on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment (eia directive) is one of the cornerstones of european environmental law.
it allows numerous public projects, such as the construction of bridges, ports, motorways or landfills, to take environmental impacts into account.
it is therefore important to update and modernise without distorting the original spirit and maintaining the balance between a high level of environmental protection and an investment-friendly attitude and sustainable development.
− directive 2011/92/eu, which concerns the assessment of the effects of public and private projects on the environment, covering a wide range of projects in the environmental impact assessment (eia), is central to the union's environmental policy.
the commission proposes a number of amendments which i support, including: only projects with significant environmental impact are subject to eia; broadening of the criteria and deadlines for decision; clear and transparent timetables at all stages of eia; possibility of public participation in the different stages of environmental impact assessment; independence of experts in the analysis of reports; promoters are obliged to provide corrective action.
for a smart, sustainable and inclusive europe, natural resources must be preserved and safeguarded.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
after some difficulties in transposing the directive due to doubts from some member states, the guidelines for this procedure, which are designed to simplify coordination between member states in the areas of consumer protection, environmental protection, safety and public health, will finally be put into practice in all member states, and this report will contribute to an even more effective implementation and better operability of the measures presented.
in the face of threats such as organised crime, trafficking in human beings, arms and drugs, terrorism, piracy, environmental and ecological risks and also to stop the misuse of the extraordinary economic opportunities, the extraordinary economic riches that the sea offers us.
− the loss of biodiversity is accelerating.
the preservation of biodiversity is essential for the socioeconomic vitality of europe.
to participate in the preservation of biodiversity, it is necessary that the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge are shared today in a fair and equitable way.
i agree with all the rapporteur's proposals because they aim to ensure that the european union takes its place and its leading role in current and future international negotiations, by promoting a progressive position in order to rapidly arrive at an ambitious global multilateral mechanism that can meet the challenges of preserving biodiversity and its sustainable use.
− the loss of biodiversity is accelerating.
in this way, the preservation of biodiversity is not only essential for the future of all humanity, but also for the socioeconomic vitality of europe and all citizens, who are the direct beneficiaries of its use.
we must work to combat the loss of biodiversity, as this will contribute to economic development and job creation.
− the union has implemented an eu biodiversity strategy for 2020, which commits to increasing its contribution to preventing global biodiversity loss by 2020. i would point out that this protocol includes research and development related to the genetic and/or biochemical composition of genetic material - e.g.
whatever supranational attitude the eu is intended to adopt in this area, we do not fail to agree with the basic question of stopping degradation and preserving biodiversity.
a final proposal is to create a european union benefit-sharing fund to be funded by the users of genetic resources with a view to preserving the world's biodiversity.
− for the eu to achieve its long-term renewable energy targets, microgeneration must be a key element of future energy production.
microgeneration contributes to increasing the overall share of renewable sources in the eu energy mix and allows for efficient electricity consumption close to the production site.
− the use of microgeneration, small-scale energy production for own consumption, is essential for the advancement of alternative energies in europe in order to meet our climate, energy and growth objectives.
− the european union is increasingly dependent on imports from third countries for energy supply, and this needs to change to ensure that climate, energy and growth objectives are met.
decentralised and small-scale energy production provides an opportunity for households, small and medium-sized enterprises and communities, both urban and rural, to work together to tackle climate change by becoming energy producers.
for the eu to achieve its long-term renewable energy targets, microgeneration must be a key element of future energy production.
microgeneration contributes to increasing the total share of renewable sources in the eu's energy mix and allows for efficient electricity consumption close to the production site, avoiding losses in transport.
− i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution which stresses the importance of promoting renewable energy cooperatives at local level, both in rural and urban areas, in the need to increase public support for renewable energy and to promote awareness and participation of citizens in small-scale energy production, improving access to renewable energy and generating investment.
for this sector to succeed, there needs to be a real european energy market, the creation of incentives at national level and the de-bureaucratization of access to the national grid.
the union must maintain its leading role in combating climate change and micro-generation has a role to play here that should not be forgotten.
the different forms of small-scale production suggest that microgeneration covers a number of different technologies: hydroelectric, geothermal, solar, marine and wind energy, heat pumps, biomass.
the resolution points to important factors such as the technical development of micro-generation units, the deployment of intelligent energy infrastructures, and effective short, medium and long-term support policies to encourage this energy production.
however, the old maxim of the proper functioning of the internal energy market, which is no longer new, is not being abandoned, just that it is the guarantor of the continuation of the policy of handing over this sector to the large energy companies.
it is also clear that these are largely responsible for the energy poverty that is currently being experienced in the eu, which affects 125 million people in the union, depriving them of access to energy, a situation generated mainly by the increase in energy prices.
we warn against using micro-generation to hold consumers accountable for lowering the price of their energy bill, in order to continue to guarantee the fabulous profits of european energy companies.
the union's cybersecurity policy should ensure a secure and reliable digital environment that is designed to ensure the protection and preservation of fundamental freedoms and the respect for fundamental rights.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
- i voted in favour of this report on the maritime dimension of the eu's common security and defence policy, as i agree with its general content, in particular with the vital interest of ensuring a safe, open and clean maritime environment, which allows for free trade and the free movement of persons, as well as a peaceful, legal, fair and sustainable use of the oceans' riches.
the environmental dimension of the seas and oceans also plays a major role in ensuring the free movement and safety of goods and people.
we cannot but stress that this report comes at a time of deep crisis in the eu and that it points to the neocolonial and militarist approach to its maritime dimension as a solution in this area, given the strategic area of access to increasingly scarce raw materials and energy resources on which the eu is dependent.
the aim is to gain advantage in the processes of strategic domination of the increasingly scarce raw materials and energy resources on which the major powers and eu monopolies are dependent, as well as domination over trade routes and markets.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
− we did not vote in favour of this report because we disagree with the general line of the eu's internal security, although we acknowledge several very positive points in this resolution, namely that we are at a time when growing economic and social inequalities are calling into question the social pact, including the effective exercise of fundamental rights and civil liberties, that special attention should be paid to combating violence against children and women, that we regret that the fight against money laundering, environmental or corporate crime and corruption has not been made an eu priority, that we call for a thorough investigation of the violent far-right movements in the union, that we recall the need to respect civil liberties and due process, that we insist that migration and the crossing of external national borders by a large number of third countries should be considered a threat to public order or security, not just internal ones.
- we did not vote in favour of this report because we disagree with the general line of the eu's internal security, although we acknowledge several very positive points in this resolution, namely that we are at a time when growing economic and social inequalities are calling into question the social pact, including the effective exercise of fundamental rights and civil liberties, that special attention should be paid to combating violence against children and women, that we regret that the fight against money laundering, environmental or corporate crime and corruption has not been made an eu priority, that we urge a thorough investigation of the violent far-right movements in the union, that we recall the need to respect civil liberties and due process, that we insist that migration and the crossing of external national borders by a large number of third countries should be considered a threat not only to public order but also to internal security.
− the europe 2020 strategy aims to achieve by 2020 an employment rate of 75% of the population aged 20-64. technological progress, economic developments and the economic and social crisis have a continuing impact on the working environment and require rapid responses in order to ensure a high level of health and safety at work.
the so-called shortcomings of the eu emissions trading scheme are but the finished demonstration of the ineffectiveness and perversity of market instruments such as carbon trading.
the carbon market is ineffective in terms of the objectives it claims to achieve, as its operation to date demonstrates.
leaving the achievement of environmental objectives to the whims of the market can only lead to bad results.
mr president, commissioner, fisheries partnership agreements are essential from an economic point of view for the european fleet because of the fishing opportunities they open up, from a social point of view for third countries because of the financial and social compensation they receive and for the world fisheries sector because of the strict sustainability standards to which the european fleet is bound and which are not met by other fleets, which as a rule take the place of europeans when they withdraw.
however, corruption has long undermined the ability of the european union to promote reforms in third countries to effectively combat corruption and to prevent, detect and punish complicity by european, public or private sector actors in third countries with a serious impact on human rights, justice, good governance and sustainable development in those countries.
however, corruption has long undermined the ability of the european union to promote reforms in third countries to effectively combat corruption and to prevent, detect and punish complicity by european public or private sector actors in third countries with a serious impact on human rights, justice, good governance and sustainable development in those countries.
we believe that this is an incentive not only to integrity in the internal procedures of companies, but to create a global environment conducive to the economic and commercial activities of our companies.
the experience of the practical application of the environmental impact assessment procedure over the last 25 years, despite the positive aspects it reveals, shows us that it can and should be improved, learning from experience and adapting it to the evolution of the political, legal and technical-scientific context.
we therefore welcome the inclusion in the proposal under consideration of a new provision which we proposed, guaranteeing the public the right to request an environmental impact assessment on a particular project of interest to them, through active participation mechanisms involving in particular residents, local authorities or ngos, and member states must now take the necessary measures and establish the necessary conditions to ensure the implementation of this right.
public authorities in the field of the environment have a key role to play here and must be properly equipped to carry it out.
the members of the committee on industry, research and energy recommended that the european parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement.
only when the galileo and egnos systems are fully operational will they provide concrete european added value in all european union policies, in particular in transport, agriculture, the fight against climate change, the prevention of natural and man-made disasters and in the area of science, technology and innovation.
corruption in the public and private sectors damages democracy, governance and state institutions, thus deteriorating the whole human rights environment, which is why the eu must take a firm and determined approach to preventing and combating corruption in third countries.
the opening up of markets, natural resources and energy to the domination of eu monopolies, favouring their expansion, creates the breeding ground for corruption to proliferate.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy.
the report does not set out measures to tackle the root causes of the growth of corruption in the eu's relations with third countries, namely the opening of markets to domination and the expansion of the eu's monopolies, its natural and energy resources, the geostrategic and diplomatic domain.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
member states should converge efforts and synergies in order to find budgetary feasible and sustainable solutions.
- i voted in favour of the report on the eu-mauritania fisheries protocol, as it is the most important fisheries protocol for the eu in terms of volume, variety of fishery products and financial compensation, and because it introduces clauses that will strengthen the sustainability of this agreement, in particular the obligation to land catches in mauritanian ports or the hiring of local seamen.
the eu should also provide sectoral support so that mauritania can manage its fishing activities with its resources in a sustainable way and combat illegal fishing by applying the principles of good governance and respecting international regulations on the law of the sea.
the eu should also provide support to ensure that mauritania manages its fishing activities on its resources in a sustainable manner and is able to combat illegal fishing.
the fight against genocide requires states to support the promotion of an educational and social environment in which women and men, girls and boys are treated equally, by strengthening women's opportunities to access a full and equal partnership in society.
measures to support girls and women should be implemented that promote an educational and social environment in which women and men, girls and boys are treated equally, enhancing women's opportunities to access a full and equal partnership in society.
given the ongoing negotiations on future cohesion policy, on the mff and, more generally, the debate on the future economic and monetary union, it is of paramount political importance for parliament to identify and recommend viable options for national, regional and local authorities to invest in smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
− the right balance needs to be struck between the obligation of each member state to comply with the rules of the stability and growth pact and the capacity of regional and local authorities to deliver on the europe 2020 objectives of growth and sustainable employment.
it is therefore urgent to strike a balance between the obligation to comply with the stability and growth pact and the need to implement strategies geared towards sustainable growth.
i agree that it is of paramount political importance to identify and recommend viable options for national, regional and local authorities to invest in smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the eu's main objectives are to promote socioeconomic development in the region through climate change adaptation and external trade policy, and in turn to promote the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources through a transparent management system.
we broadly agree with some of the guidelines expressed in the report, such as the increase in the appropriations for assistance to the fisheries sector of the countries in the region under the european development fund, the fight against illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing and the promotion of sustainable fishing in the region.
this area is mainly made up of acp countries, which have a very rich fishery value, and it is intended that there should be coordination of the fisheries policies in the union with those in the pacific, with the aim of providing a sustainable development of this sector, while increasing the union fleet in these waters.
in parallel, it is important that the amendment to the cotonou agreement, which governs eu-acp relations, takes account of this strategy and the need for lasting and transparent solutions for the sustainable promotion of fisheries resources.
i also stress the need for the european union to continue to support coastal developing countries in implementing sustainable fisheries management plans in their territorial waters and in effectively combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
the conclusion of cooperation agreements on sustainable fisheries is also encouraged, in order to ensure the protection of european coastal and territorial waters, the exclusive economic zones and the conservation of marine resources.
the mediterranean and black seas have particular characteristics in terms of oceanography, fisheries, environment and socioeconomy.
it also advocates the establishment of exclusive economic zones and protected areas, in which conservation and management measures are adopted, in order to promote sustainable fishing and facilitate the control of fishing activities by combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
the mediterranean and black seas have particular characteristics in terms of oceanography, fisheries, environment and socioeconomy.
the mediterranean and black sea basins have a very slow rate of water renewal (around 80 to 90 years and 140 years respectively) and are therefore extremely vulnerable to marine pollution.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the marine environment.
in environmental regulation, prevent social and environmental dumping, safeguard intellectual property rights and ensure the transparency of investor state dispute settlement.
the european energy market depends on modern infrastructure and interconnections of environmental sustainability, common standards, harmonised rules, and it has to be transparent and competitive.
in all these areas acer - the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators - plays a key role in the implementation of the infrastructure regulation, in monitoring energy markets by ensuring their transparency, the remit regulation, in the implementation of the third energy package, in the definition of network codes.
it is striking, commissioner, the discrepancy between the ambitious objectives of a common energy policy and the shortsighted decisions that can undermine its implementation.
inadequate means, weak solutions, delays, hesitations, the prevalence of national logic over european energy policy - this is what awaits us.
we will incur a loss of global competitiveness with much lower energy costs in the united states, industrial relocation and more unemployment in europe.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
- i approve this report, considering that this directive is very important in the union's environmental policy.
the eia directive establishes the simple but fundamental principle of informed decision: before approving the implementation of a public or approved project likely to have an impact on the environment, the competent authorities of the member states are legally obliged to obtain the information necessary to carry out an environmental impact assessment.
i am convinced that a truly sustainable development model needs to be adopted throughout the union and i express my full and unwavering support for the commission's proposal.
the proposed amendments are therefore intended to strengthen the proposal by completing it, with the aim of making it even more incisive and effective, simplifying transposition into national legislation and facilitating the achievement of environmental protection objectives.
− directive 2011/92/ec aims to ensure the environmental sustainability of projects falling within its scope, from the construction of bridges, ports, motorways, landfills, etc.
the proposal introduces biodiversity, the use of natural resources, climate change and the risks of natural and man-made disasters among the factors on which the impact of a project should be assessed.
− i agree with the proposed revision which aims to streamline procedures and increase the quality of assessments, introduce new factors to assess environmental issues, improve the quality of information used in the eia and simplify procedures.
− i voted in favour of the report on the environmental impact assessment of certain public and private projects, taking into account the need to review this directive in the light of new political, legal and technical challenges and to align this legislation with eu priorities on the environment, biodiversity, use of natural resources, climate change and natural disasters.
a strengthened directive will bring environmental, health and economic benefits through simplified and more efficient procedures.
− environmental protection and sustainability is a priority for this house.
- the report by mr zanoni deals with the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 2011/92/eu on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment.
the current directive is a key element of eu environmental policy.
i believe that in this review it is essential that the principle of informed decision before approval of a project likely to have an impact on the environment is maintained, with the involvement of the public and with experts who have the necessary technical skills to carry out the tasks provided for in the directive in a scientifically objective manner and with complete independence from the developer and the competent authorities themselves.
− the directive in question refers to environmental impact assessment (eia), which is essential to safeguard the public interest and the conservation of nature in decision-making on public and private projects, taking into account their effect on the environment.
we are fighting for transparency and accessibility to the public, particularly via the internet, and for their comments to be taken into account in order to improve the quality of decisions and to contribute to raising awareness of environmental issues.
− directive 2011/92/eu contains a legal provision requiring an environmental impact assessment (eia) for public or private projects likely to have significant effects on the environment, before their authorisation.
it is agreed that the main objective of the directive has been achieved, the principles of environmental assessment have been harmonised across the eu by introducing minimum requirements with regard to the type of projects subject to assessment, the main obligations of the developer, the content of the assessment and the involvement of the competent authorities and the public.
the overall objective of this proposal is to adjust the provisions of the eia directive in order to address its shortcomings, taking into account current environmental and socio-economic changes and challenges.
− directive 2011/92/eu on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment (eia directive) is the basis of the union's environment policy.
over its 28 years of application, this directive has had some success in harmonising the principles of environmental assessment at european level, but it has only been subject to three minor amendments, when the political, legal and technical context has evolved considerably.
it has therefore become necessary to revise it in order to adopt a model of truly sustainable development throughout the union.
− the present report revises directive 2011/92/eu on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment (eia directive).
in line with the union's priorities, new factors to be taken into account when assessing projects likely to have an impact on the environment are introduced by means of legislation; these include biodiversity, the use of natural resources, climate change and the risks of natural and man-made disasters.
given the urgency of providing the union with an instrument to ensure the sustainability of projects to be carried out on european territory, i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal for a directive.
− directive 2011/92/eu, which concerns the assessment of the effects of public and private projects on the environment by covering a wide range of projects in the environmental impact assessment (eia), is central to the union's environmental policy.
greater rigor and transparency are essential elements for the approval of projects with environmental consequences.
− this proposal for a recreational craft and watercraft directive updates the current european union rules on safety and environmental performance requirements for craft designed for private use activities.
the basic requirements that vessels will have to meet relate to stability and buoyancy, engine and electrical safety, and exhaust and noise emissions.
the installation of on-board storage tanks or water treatment systems for vessels equipped with sanitary facilities will be mandatory to better protect the marine environment.
− i welcome this review of the safety and environmental requirements for recreational craft and watercraft, including exhaust and noise emissions.
- i voted in favour of the report on recreational craft and watercraft for supporting the introduction of stricter limits for exhaust and noise emissions and the updating of design requirements, which will allow for greater legal certainty, benefiting both manufacturers and consumers.
− this proposal substantially updates the current eu rules on safety and environmental performance requirements for recreational, sport and training vessels.
the main fundamental requirements which the vessels concerned will have to meet relate to stability and buoyancy, engine and electrical safety and exhaust and noise emissions.
this aspect supports the option of maintaining the applicable limits for noise emissions, in view of the difficulties and high technical requirements which would be imposed by the necessary changes.
i would also like to stress the positive impact of greater harmonisation of environmental requirements on the industrial competitiveness of this sector in the global context.
safety is another aspect which we must value in the legislative work concerned, as are measures to avoid the discharge of waste water into the sea.
− this proposal for a recreational craft and watercraft directive updates the current eu rules on environmental and safety performance requirements for private use vessels.
the aim of this amendment is to adapt the directive to the flagship policies defined in the europe 2020 strategy, which aim to create a resource-efficient europe to meet climate/energy objectives.
integrated maritime policy rationalizes environmental protection in all union policies, especially those affecting the marine environment.
− the proposed new recreational craft and watercraft directive substantially updates the current eu rules on safety and environmental performance requirements for craft designed for private use activities, i.e.
the objective of this directive is that the vessels concerned comply with certain measures relating to stability and buoyancy, engine and electrical safety, exhaust gas emissions and noise.
the report also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's environmental policy is properly implemented.
− this report presents a set of amendments concerning recreational craft and private jet boats, with the aim of bringing new safety rules and environmental issues into line.
i am in favour of this report because i believe that these amendments will allow the development of this sector and at the same time bring more security to citizens and greater environmental protection.
− this proposal for a new recreational craft and watercraft directive updates the current eu rules on safety and environmental performance requirements for craft designed for private use activities.
− in the current economic climate, the simplification and flexibility of all rules allowing greater mobility of professionals, especially in terms of the recognition of their qualifications, is an essential requirement for a sustainable economic recovery.
− as part of the process of strengthening relations with armenia and the effective implementation of the european neighbourhood policy, the european union should ensure mechanisms for the mobility of citizens that ensure an environment of mutual trust and transparency with neighbouring countries, such as armenia.
- i welcome this report, starting by pointing out that, in general, chinese companies consider the union a stable investment environment, but also regret what they consider to be the existence of certain obstacles to trade in the european market.
i therefore urge the commission to negotiate an ambitious and balanced eu-china investment agreement, which aims to create a more favourable environment for eu investors in china and vice versa.
the european union should give priority to the conclusion of economic agreements with china which value respect for social rights, human dignity and the environment.
chinese companies see the eu as a stable investment environment, but they complain of obstacles, especially agricultural protectionism and technical barriers to trade.
important for fostering economic growth, an eu-china investment agreement must be ambitious and balanced, ensuring a climate of greater confidence, security and transparency for investors on both sides, promoting fair competition between public and private actors, respecting the organisation for economic cooperation and development (oecd) guidelines on corporate governance, fighting corruption and fostering legal certainty and a predictable business climate.
the commission is also concerned about the weak or non-existent implementation of social, labour and environmental rights.
i would stress, among the recommendations made by the european parliament, that investors should respect both the legislation of the host country and the provisions of any agreement concluded between the eu and china, when it enters into force, in order to benefit fully from the best possible protection of their investments and that the investment agreement should not have the effect of further lowering social and environmental standards in china, but on the contrary, contribute to improving them as a precondition, leading to a more balanced trade and mutually beneficial investment relationship.
i stress that the agreement should include the parties' strong commitment to sustainable and inclusive development in economic, social and environmental terms, in relation to investment, and i note that investment agreements concluded by the eu should respect the capacity for public intervention, in particular when pursuing public policy objectives, for example in the areas of social and environmental standards, human rights, safety, workers' and consumers' rights, public health and safety and cultural diversity.
it is therefore important to deepen economic relations in a mutually beneficial way, in the conviction that open and fair trade is a powerful tool for generating more growth and welfare, while respecting social and environmental rights.
on the one hand we have liberal, democratic taiwan, which respects human rights, and on the other hand we have china, which is closed, protectionist and which has no implementation of social, labour and environmental rights.
however, there is a willingness to formalise an agreement that includes a strong commitment by the parties to sustainable and inclusive development in economic, social and environmental terms in relation to investment.
investment agreements concluded by the eu should respect public intervention capacity, in particular when pursuing public policy objectives, for example in the areas of social and environmental standards, human rights, safety, labour and consumer rights, public health and safety and cultural diversity.
in any case, the viability and sustainability of some eu-specific production sectors and products should be safeguarded, such as the canned fish industry, in particular canned tuna, which is of major socioeconomic importance in the eu, particularly in the southern european countries.
i am in favour of a european union which is in solidarity with those who suffer the most and able to welcome them in cases of need, but at the same time i recognise the fundamental duty of the member states to ensure the stability of their populations and the sustainability of their states.
therefore, in order to reduce the environmental impact of the use of mercury in these products and to reduce their contribution to the global mercury problem, and also taking into account economic feasibility, i believe that the placing on the market of button cells containing mercury should be definitively prohibited by 31 december 2016. in summary, i am in favour of extending the exemption for batteries for one more year until 31 december 2016. given the possibility of recycling 100% of batteries, i consider that the risk is lower and controllable.
at the same time, the protection of the environment and human health would be ensured, and at the same time additional time would be needed for technological development, sharing of best practices, learning and innovation in this field.
the report by mr panayotov is on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2006/66/ec on batteries and accumulators and waste batteries and accumulators as regards the placing on the market of portable batteries and accumulators containing cadmium for use in cordless power tools.
this proposal aims to amend the directive by limiting the exemption for the use of cadmium in portable batteries and accumulators for cordless power tools until 31 december 2015. considering that the total market share of nimh batteries in the eu cordless power tool market is relatively low compared to nicd and li-ion batteries, which are mainly used in the nordic countries, and considering the harmful effects of cadmium on the environment, i agree with this limitation.
however, i accept that an extension of the exemption for another year would allow for a reasonable compromise, protecting the interests of both consumers and businesses while ensuring the protection of the environment and human health.
this directive provides for the european commission to review the exemption for cordless tools and proposes a limited exemption until 31 december 2015, taking into account the effects of cadmium on the environment and health.
at the same time, the protection of the environment and human health would be ensured, and at the same time additional time would be needed for technological development, sharing of best practices, learning and innovation in this field.
the current proposal aims to amend the directive by limiting the exemption for the use of cadmium in portable batteries and accumulators for cordless power tools until 31 december 2015. in view of the effects of cadmium on the environment, the commission's proposal is welcomed.
the deadline was set by the commission following an impact assessment which combined the socioeconomic and environmental dimensions of the removal of nicd batteries from cordless power tools by comparing the environmental impact of the removal of cadmium over time.
− cadmium is a heavy metal that produces toxic effects when it accumulates in the environment and in the body, even in small amounts, as it remains for an indefinite period and can cause irreversible damage.
when used for this purpose, cadmium can be 100% recycled, substantially reducing the risks to the environment and human health.
- i strongly condemn the climate of impunity for cia programmes which continues to allow human rights violations.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
− fundamental rights of citizens, environmental protection and barriers to the internal market were the main topics of the 1,986 petitions submitted by european citizens in 2012. if, on the one hand, this shows the growing sensitivity of citizens to the use of this instrument, which allows them to question the european institutions and the functioning of the european union, on the other hand, it shows the existence of some problems that need to be solved urgently in this eu that is wanted from the citizens.
− in 2012, the committee on petitions registered 1,986 petitions, most of them concerning fundamental rights, the environment, the internal market and the economic and social crisis, figures which are not at all unconnected with the difficulties faced by the people in each member state in the context of the structural crisis of capitalism and the so-called austerity policies in the eu.
− in 2012, petitions by citizens and residents of the european union mainly focused on alleged gaps in eu law in the areas of fundamental rights, the environment, the internal market and property rights.
it claims leadership in efforts to combat climate change but persists in its own emissions reduction targets below those recommended by the ipcc.
ironically and sadly, it is the deep economic crisis that we are in that is the one that is doing the most to curb greenhouse gas emissions.
for many, the climate is still more a pretext for lucrative business opportunities than a reason for serious and genuine concern about the future of the planet we inhabit.
it is important to point out here the inconsistency of policies, for example, of liberalization and deregulation of international trade, which significantly increase the greenhouse gas emissions inherent in meeting human needs.
and by the way, it's also important to remember the millions who, since 2009, have announced themselves to mitigate and adapt to climate change with great media hype.
climate change is a global challenge, the effects of which can be minimized, mitigated, but it is inevitable and will bring demographic changes, new diseases, problems for farmers, serious difficulties for civil protection agencies.
moreover, the current crisis cannot be an excuse for forgetting, for lessening environmental concerns, quite the contrary, it is an environmental policy like the one the european union has been advocating, which stimulates innovation and investment in environmental goods and services, which can generate jobs and also export opportunities.
climate change is a real threat to people and the planet.
i would like to remind you that women and children are more vulnerable to the impacts of climate change, such as water and food shortages and natural disasters.
combating climate change is also a human rights issue.
secondly, we must combine the targets assigned to the economies of the different countries with common and global objectives to be adopted by specific industrial sectors, which are subject to carbon leakage.
thirdly, the framework should be more flexible and accommodate a wider range of initiatives, in particular bottom-up initiatives, for example, relating to cities and energy efficiency.
a competition in which everyone loses: workers, populations and the environment.
the final result of the vote substantially weakened the proposal that came out of the specialised committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
- due to the various hazardous materials on board a ship, these are considered hazardous waste and can therefore currently only be legally dismantled in oecd countries.
however, this obligation is systematically breached, with around 90% of eu member state flagged vessels actually being decommissioned in 2009 outside the oecd, mostly in south east asia, with significant environmental and health impacts.
it is intended that a european list of recycling yards should be established anywhere in the world, provided that they comply with eu standards for the protection of human health and the environment.
as we have said before, we are concerned both with working conditions and the safeguarding of workers' rights and with the protection of public health and the preservation of the environment.
in other words, they change flags and transfer their registration to recycle the ships in third countries with more permissive environmental standards, at a lower cost, and they do so on the beach, which can cause damage to the health of workers and the environment.
at the end of their useful life, most large seagoing merchant ships are dismantled in shipyards using methods with considerable environmental and health impacts.
these negative aspects prevent ship recycling from becoming a truly sustainable industry.
i voted in favour of this proposal, which included the following proposals which i support: a ban on the export of hazardous waste also to waste vessels; an inventory of hazardous materials for all vessels calling at eu ports; the creation of a fund based on mandatory contributions from the shipping industry to ensure environmentally friendly recycling.
- this regulation on ship recycling aims to protect the environment but also to comply with international law.
this has negative consequences for health, the environment and a distortion of the market.
as we have said before, we are concerned both with working conditions and the safeguarding of workers' rights and with the protection of public health and the preservation of the environment.
in other words, they change flags and transfer their registration to recycle the ships in third countries with more permissive environmental standards, cheaper, carrying out the operation on the beach, and thus potentially causing damage to the health of workers and the environment.
- i voted in favour of the report on local authorities and civil society: europe's commitment to sustainable development, because it includes proposals to strengthen the role of participatory democracy in the definition and implementation of development policies through greater involvement of local authorities and civil society organisations, in particular human rights and gender equality organisations.
to promote more democratic societies, the eu must have a stronger political commitment to fostering a favourable environment for csos and local authorities and strengthening their capacities, as well as to mainstreaming these issues in policy and programming.
the promotion of an enabling environment should be considered a priority in the eu's position on the post-2015 development agenda.
by fostering an environment favourable to csos, the eu ultimately promotes more democratic societies.
the promotion of a cso-friendly environment should be considered a priority in the eu's position on the post-2015 development agenda and eu delegation staff should be trained accordingly.
the eu should support a monitoring mechanism with regard to an enabling environment, including for policies and regulatory arrangements, as well as multi-stakeholder dialogues.
− in september 2012, the commission published the communication on the roots of democracy and sustainable development: europe's engagement with civil society in external relations and in may 2013 the communication on capacity building of local authorities in partner countries for better governance and more tangible development outcomes, which created a new landscape for eu cooperation with civil society organisations and local authorities in a changing global context characterised by significant economic, political and social challenges.
− this report follows the commission's communications on the roots of democracy and sustainable development: europe's engagement with civil society in external relations and on strengthening the capacity of local authorities in partner countries for better governance and more tangible development outcomes.
a more transparent and inclusive strategy, where associations and local government participate in the democratic process to achieve the goal of sustainable development and growth.
in this context, i consider it essential to recall the priority goals and objectives to which the eu has committed itself in the europe 2020 strategy, namely the achievement of smart, inclusive and sustainable growth.
if we want this right to be a reality, we must invest in quality education in a sustainable and lasting way.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
biological stops are an important instrument for the sustainable management of many fisheries.
the collection of these data by national scientific institutions, many of which are chronically underfunded, is of the utmost importance for the sustainable management of fisheries, based on scientific knowledge.
failure to do so could mean the further decline of the sector over the past few decades and jeopardise the possibilities for sustainable development, whether in fisheries or other related activities.
as such, it should support the environmental, social and economic sustainability of the sector.
in the context of a widespread economic and financial crisis, from which the fisheries sector is not escaping, measures are urgently needed to strengthen the viability and competitiveness of the sector and to improve the income of fishermen without jeopardising the sustainability of resources.
in line with these principles, my 328 contributions were intended to provide support for boosting the sector and increasing its profitability through responsible, sustainable and properly exploited fishing, with the aim of making more money by fishing less.
finally, as regards the outermost regions, here is my protest against the integration and dilution of the posei regulation into the emff, which decisively compromises the existence of this programme after 2020 and has had the complacent silence of the... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
mr president, tomorrow we are voting on a document which is essential to reversing the trajectory of difficulties which threaten the sustainability of fisheries resources in many of our regions and the lives of fishermen and their businesses in many of our coastal communities.
the success of our efforts to open up new horizons for the sector will depend on the appropriate means of supporting fishermen in their transition to a more sustainable cfp, on funding scientists for studies and the provision of data to support the right decisions, or on support for the development of fishermen and fishery products.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the marine environment, in particular the protection of the marine environment, and to extend the scope of the directive to the protection of the marine environment.
it is true that it does not have much visibility, that it is not as popular as others that are taking place here in this house, but it is also true that it is with investments of this kind that we have in fact a capacity to build solid knowledge in a serious way, which will allow, in the future, an exploitation of the marine environment, learning the lessons of the past, a sustainable exploitation and, at the same time, not losing the opportunity to take advantage of the great potential that the sea has for our human communities.
secondly, it is precisely for this reason that i have been so interested in working on the documents which have been passed in this parliament on the knowledge of the marine environment, on the mapping of the marine environment, that is, everything that has to do with strengthening, consolidating scientific knowledge so that we can move forward, preserving resources, preserving the heritage we have to leave to future generations about our planet, but also exploiting this potential which is still largely untapped in the seas.
i think that, as they are presented, they should be taken into account by the european commission, in the recognition, first, that the fishing sector is an ancient human activity and still today one of the main ones taking place in the marine environment and that it can simultaneously, and i will finish very shortly, contribute and benefit from the knowledge of the marine environment, integrate into the blue economy and compete for the strategy 2020. and finally, i would ask the commission to accept that the success of such projects requires sound financing, guarantees of continuity and long-term predictability, and that this requires the coordination of financing mechanisms at community and national level.
but the union's economy will only be able to recover if it fulfils the promises it has made so many times and never made, if it launches serious investment programmes, whether project bonds, the employment growth initiative and others, which have just emerged in the previous debate, if it is able to review its industrial policy and its external trade policy and make them compatible with the world of globalisation in which we live, and if it does not let down its commitment to innovation, education, science and the environment, especially in countries which are currently under severe restrictions.
this is not great and we should not shout for victory, but it is undeniably progress and shows that we are making progress in ensuring the sustainability of public finances.
to ms trautmann i would say that the commission has informed the member states how productive public investments that support sustainable growth can be accommodated within our fiscal rules.
belgium’s fiscal policy is today clearly on a more sustainable footing than it was two years ago, when the country had been without a proper government for two years.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
(the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, commissioner, living well within the limits of our planet is the motto that gives the title to the european union's 2020 environmental action programme.
whether it will be possible to shape a harmonious and sustainable relationship between nature and society within the framework of a system that, in marx's words, either grows and accumulates or dies.
it cannot be the commodification of nature and its resources or so-called services, the promotion of the private appropriation of what is and must be for everyone: from drinking water to clean air, from fertile soil to biodiversity, from hydrothermal springs to mineral deposits.
it is also important to remember that the environment does not exist separately from everything else.
we need, of course, an action programme on the environment, a programme which is not just a mere spin off of a fraudulent, albeit green, neoliberal booklet.
but we also need, i would say above all, to integrate environmental objectives into a very broad set of sectoral policies, including agriculture, fisheries, industry, energy, trade and others.
over the last 40 years, a wide range of environmental legislation has been introduced in the european union, which has contributed to the most comprehensive and modern set of legislation in the world.
in addition to legislation, there have been european union action programmes on the environment since the early 1970s.
today we are aware that the proposed environmental objectives will only be achieved if they are integrated into all the union's policies and activities.
the european union has made great progress in the environmental field, but many problems remain.
resource use remains largely unsustainable and inefficient, waste is not managed properly, land degradation remains unchecked and there is unsustainable land use that is consuming fertile soils with impacts on food security and the achievement of biodiversity targets.
water quality and air pollution levels are still problematic and in many parts of europe, eu citizens continue to be exposed to dangerous substances potentially endangering their health and wellbeing.
the european union can only win by aiming to become an inclusive, green economy, which will ensure sustainable growth and development, the protection of the health and well-being of the citizens of the european union and a secure and supportive future for future generations.
mr president, we have always said that the liberalization of plantations involves enormous dangers, it jeopardizes the economic balance of farms and agricultural regions, but it also jeopardizes the ecological balance of wines and landscapes.
i would like to say that, in addition to the negative economic, social and environmental impacts, traditional vine-growing also has cultural and even tourist value.
this budget aims at sustainable economic growth, competitiveness, job creation and the fight against youth unemployment, as well as the eu's role in the world.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
− the european union has identified sustainable economic growth, competitiveness, job creation and the fight against youth unemployment as priorities for the 2014 budget, as well as the eu's role in the world.
this initiative serves the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for the sea by combining knowledge and technological innovation, sustainable use of resources, competitiveness and job creation for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
− just as the sea surface routes were discovered, traced and mapped many centuries ago, so today there is a need to make a similar effort with regard to the marine environment and to improve and enrich existing mapping.
the sustainability of the fisheries sector will benefit greatly from this knowledge-integrating stimulus.
their participation in this process is essential if scattered data are to be effectively collected and potential threats to the marine environment and the fishing industry itself are to be identified.
the general concern is the need to improve knowledge of the marine environment.
the creation of a continuous multi-resolution digital map of the european marine environment by 2020 aims to make ocean information available to a multitude of stakeholders from public authorities, industry, education, research and civil society.
marine knowledge is key to the promotion, development and expansion of the blue economy, which represents the maritime dimension of the europe 2020 strategy, by linking knowledge and technological innovation, sustainable use of resources, competitiveness and job creation for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the european union should focus its efforts on exploiting and making the available resources in this area more profitable, through a strategy that ensures the environmental and economic sustainability of activities linked to the sea.
the protection of biodiversity is certainly a priority which must reconcile the interests of all those involved in this sector.
i would stress the importance of small-scale fishing for the protection of biodiversity, economic dynamism and social stability in specific areas and regions of the european union, which is why the eu must provide funds to support its activity, both in terms of fleet and equipment renewal and safety and de-cluttering.
we appreciate that the vote confirmed the inclusion in the proposal for a regulation of important proposals that we have made, such as: - the possibility of the emff to financially support the temporary cessation of fishing activities during periods of biological defence; - support for so-called biological stops, a longstanding demand of the sector and a measure with a significant positive impact for fishermen and shipowners and for the sustainability of resources themselves; - the increase of community co-financing in the collection and management of biological data from the current 50% to 80% (maximum rate), which is of the greatest importance for a sustainable management of fisheries based on scientific knowledge; - the increase of co-financing for small-scale fisheries projects by 30 percentage points.
in addition, taking into account the various points raised in the report, such as fleet overcapacity, transferable fishing concessions and conversion, the need for an action plan for small-scale and coastal fishing, fleet renewal, the social aspect of the emff, temporary cessations and mutual funds, investments in ports, scientific advice and data collection, aid for storage, aquaculture, sustainable development of fishing areas and the integrated maritime policy, among others, i voted in favour of the document.
- the possibility of the emff providing financial support for the temporary cessation of fishing activities during periods of biological protection, - support for so-called biological stops, a longstanding demand of the sector and a measure with a significant positive impact on fishermen and shipowners and on the sustainability of resources themselves, - the increase in community co-financing in the collection and management of biological data from the current 50% to 80% (maximum rate), which is of the utmost importance for a sustainable management of fisheries based on scientific knowledge, - the increase in co-financing of projects related to small-scale fishing by 30 percentage points.
− i approve this motion for a resolution, starting by stressing the importance of the european union being proactive in the overall progress of the international climate negotiations, noting that the inability of the european union to take a leading role and the prospects for achieving progress at global level are influenced by the climate initiatives that the eu itself undertakes.
in this context, i stress the need to strengthen the european union's climate initiatives, including through the adoption of an ambitious 2030 framework on energy and climate change, and to dispel any doubts caused either by the limited effectiveness of the european emissions trading system (ets) as a source of incentives for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, or by the delay in the inclusion of the aviation sector in the ets.
developed countries should help developing countries reduce their emissions because they see the vast potential of many developing countries for renewable energy and energy efficiency.
second, we must combine the targets assigned to the economies of different countries with common targets to be adopted by specific industry sectors subject to carbon leakage on a global basis.
thirdly, the framework should be much more flexible and accommodate a wider range of initiatives, in particular bottom-up initiatives, such as accommodating energy efficiency-related city initiatives.
fourth, market mechanisms must continue to be used to regulate climate change issues.
− it is essential that the eu develops a strategy to tackle climate change, making a serious commitment to sustainable development, seeking to reduce its carbon emissions, without jeopardising productive activities, particularly industries.
any policy on climate change, especially in the context of the economic and financial crisis, must seek economic efficiency and sustainability, by putting innovation and research at the service of new techniques and new solutions that are more environmentally friendly and equally efficient and competitive.
the focus should be on more efficient use of natural resources and strong investment in research and cleaner technologies to maintain european competitiveness and enable job creation in a green growth environment.
- climate change is a global challenge whose effects can be minimised, mitigated, but are unavoidable and will bring demographic changes, new diseases, problems for farmers, serious difficulties for civil protection bodies.
the current crisis cannot be an excuse to forget or diminish environmental concerns.
it is that an environmental policy, as the european union has advocated, stimulates innovation and investment in environmental goods and services, generating jobs and export opportunities.
to diminish environmental concerns - and to forget sustainability - would be tragic and a lack of solidarity with future generations.
− as in previous resolutions, we agree on the greenhouse gas emission reduction targets with greater concern for meeting the targets set and the need for other more ambitious targets (in line with the ipcc recommendations).
but in this resolution, as in the previous ones, so-called market solutions prevail, the result of which is clearly visible in the functioning of the carbon market.
the emissions trading scheme (ets) is one example of the clear failure of market instruments.
in view of the inevitable environmental and political fiasco it represents, they now intend to combine it with other similar mechanisms for the creation of a world carbon market.
the climate, and the policies surrounding it, have been more of a pretext for lucrative business opportunities than a reason for serious, genuine concern about the future of the planet.
the european parliament must be firm in its defence of the kyoto protocol and the reduction of co2 emissions in the post-2012 period.
the adoption of this resolution on the warsaw climate change conference brings greater responsibilities to the eu to go further in reducing co2 by 20% by 2020, which could help to stimulate the european economy.
the difference) between current levels of ambition and the levels required to keep global warming below 2°c.
the eu must remain at the forefront of defending the objectives set for the consequences of climate change.
− i voted in favour of this motion for a european parliament resolution which stresses the importance of the eu being proactive in the overall progress of international climate negotiations and notes that the eu's inability to take a leading role and the prospects for achieving progress at global level are influenced by the climate initiatives the eu itself undertakes.
in this regard, the need to strengthen eu climate initiatives is highlighted, including through the adoption of an ambitious 2030 energy and climate change framework, addressing any doubts caused by either the limited effectiveness of the european emissions trading system (ets) as a source of incentives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions or the delay in the inclusion of the aviation sector in the ets.
− i am of the view that the post-2020 agreement will have to integrate the various binding and non-binding provisions adopted under the un framework convention on climate change and the kyoto protocol into a single comprehensive and coherent regime binding on all parties.
− as in previous resolutions, we agree with the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, with greater concern for meeting the targets set and with the need for other more ambitious targets (in line with the ipcc recommendations).
but in this resolution, as in the previous ones, so-called market solutions prevail, the result of which is clearly visible in the functioning of the carbon market.
the climate, and the policies surrounding it, have been more of a pretext for lucrative business opportunities than a reason for serious, genuine concern about the future of the planet.
- i approve this report, considering that the european neighbourhood policy aims at creating an area of prosperity and good neighbourliness, based on the values of the union and characterised by close and peaceful relations at regional level, promoting a strong and sustainable democracy, the rule of law, political and economic reforms, a sustainable social market economy in the countries neighbouring the european union and creating a circle of friends of the union and friendly relations between them, which therefore constitute the major guiding principle for assessing progress which in turn should be the contribution to the security, solidarity and prosperity of each party.
− the european neighbourhood policy plays a key role in promoting a wider area of prosperity, freedom and respect for human rights, social equity and sound and sustainable democracies.
it is also crucial for social stability and a peaceful environment.
− the european neighbourhood policy aims to strengthen the partnership between the eu and neighbouring countries and societies in order to build and consolidate healthy democracies, strive for sustainable economic growth and manage cross-border links.
- i welcome this report, while reiterating the importance of cohesion policy as the main investment instrument, which plays a key role in combating the crisis, reducing regional disparities and putting the european union and its regions on the path to sustainable growth.
i therefore stress the importance of ensuring adequate budgetary means, in the context of the negotiations on the 2014-2020 framework, for the european union's structural and investment funds, noting in particular their significant share of investment in a number of areas such as employment, innovation, sustainable development and support for smes.
i believe that decisive action is needed to reform product and labour markets, adopt prudent wage policies, base the future growth model on innovation and shift production to high value-added activities, given that a sustainable economic policy requires very favourable conditions for the creation of new businesses.
an agenda of more privatisations of companies and public services, liberalizations and destruction of labour and social rights; the reduction of taxes on capital, using environmental subterfuge.
human lives are at stake, and the european union and its member states cannot afford to waste efforts and resources in order to prevent these tragedies and to ensure better coordination of search and rescue operations, especially since in many situations we are faced with abuses by smugglers and traffickers of human beings.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
- i approve of this report, considering that in a period of economic crisis and austerity, it would be almost impossible to emphasise environmental policy, as this would be interpreted as a secondary priority or, in other words, as a constraint or a hindrance to economic growth and employment.
this short-term and divisive vision should be replaced by an effective combination of environmental messaging and economic and industrial concerns, bringing together all stakeholders in an innovative and progressive approach.
in my view, action on the environment has very high costs as does inaction in this area but it also has benefits that neither public finance nor private investors can ignore during the current period.
for this reason, environmental concerns should not remain the adjustment variable but should be integrated into the various sectoral policies.
by proposing a general framework, the seventh environment action programme can serve as the european union's major environmental manifesto to its citizens and the rest of the world and as the founding act of a european green new deal for 2020, guaranteeing greener growth and creating jobs.
- i welcome the report adopted today by the european parliament which aims to solve some complex environmental problems.
in particular, to raise awareness of the ecological limits of the planet and the environment, with a view to maximising the benefits of environmental policy for the economy and society.
− the last environment action programme ended in july 2012. the priorities for the seventh programme must now be set, at a time when the environmental challenge is of the utmost importance and is far from being met.
by 2050, improving global environmental performance is urgently needed and this requires a commitment to a greener and more sustainable economy in a framework of competitiveness, innovation and job creation.
− over the last 40 years, a wide range of environmental legislation has been established in the eu, which has contributed to the most comprehensive and modern regulatory body in the world.
in addition to legislation, eu action programmes on the environment have existed since the early 1970s.
today we are aware that the proposed environmental objectives will only be achieved if they are integrated into all the union's policies and activities.
the eu aims to combat or minimise these problems by implementing the environment action programme (eap), which is due to run until 31 december 2020. it is expected that this programme will have sufficient financial resources and the political will of the eu and the member states to be implemented.
the eu has nothing to gain from becoming a green and inclusive economy, which will ensure sustainable growth and development, the protection of the health and well-being of eu citizens and a secure and supportive future for generations to come.
− the previous environmental action programme expired at the end of july 2012. it is therefore important to agree on the new framework up to 2020 and to propose an ambitious and realistic vision for 2050. the new european programme should aim to educate, inform, train and strengthen the participation of the european citizen.
- the communication on the union's environmental policy deserves greater attention.
more pedagogy is needed to ensure awareness of the eu's environmental choices at all levels: from administrations to citizens, entrepreneurs and investors.
this action programme could also help to strengthen the common feeling of europeans towards the protection of the natural heritage and the improvement of the environment in their continent and in the world.
parliament considered that the seventh environmental action programme should send a strong political message to the rest of the world and contribute to the creation of international governance in the field of the environment.
the eu must in fact get third countries to commit themselves to the same commitment on environmental and climate matters.
− implementing an environmental policy in a time of economic and financial crisis is a challenge, as environmental actions generate very high costs.
however, an environmental policy that provides favourable conditions for the competitiveness of the economy, i.e.
a low-carbon and sustainable economy, is essential.
this report underlines the need for a european green new deal in horizon 2020. i also stress the importance of environmental legislation, which should seek greater coherence and simplification, while respecting the principles of smart regulation.
the natural capital of the european union and its biodiversity must be safeguarded.
this requires intensified efforts to combat environmental dumping and carbon leakage.
given the urgency of a long-term environmental perspective for 2050 that provides an environment conducive to investment, growth and job creation, i am in favour of adopting this report.
− the development of the european union's environmental policy has been established through environmental action programmes since the 1970s.
however, the pathways identified, such as market mechanisms, the polluter pays principle, the emissions trading scheme, the eu 2020 strategy, not only do not allow some of these objectives to be achieved, but also contribute to pushing the member states and the eu further away from achieving them.
it insists on a purely market-based approach to environmental problems, favouring profit generation and its concentration in large economic groups, at the expense of speculation around the carbon price, among other illusory instruments, which contribute to the increased commodification of natural resources and environmental solutions, removing the public character of policies, financing and services.
− article 191 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) provides the legal basis for the preservation, protection and improvement of the quality of the environment and for the protection of human health, including against the dangers arising from exposure to ionising radiation.
i would also like to stress that the presence of radioactive substances in the environment has an impact on the health of the general population.
in addition to environmental exposure pathways, the protection of the environment as a whole, including exposure of biota, should be considered within a comprehensive and coherent framework.
the introduction of a chapter on environmental protection is a positive step, as is the fact that more attention is being paid to the most vulnerable groups of the population.
− the eu should continue to develop its foreign policy objectives and promote its values and interests globally, with the overall aim of contributing to peace, security, solidarity, conflict prevention, the promotion of democracy, the protection of human rights, gender equality, respect for international law, support for international institutions, effective multilateralism and mutual respect between nations, sustainable development, free and fair trade and poverty eradication.
- i welcome the report adopted by the european parliament today, because it is based on the assumption that the overall objective of the regulatory framework for electronic communications should continue to be to promote a sectoral ecosystem of competition and investment that benefits consumers and users, encouraging the creation of a genuine internal market in communications and promoting the union's overall competitiveness.
the reindustrialisation of the union depends on common transport, energy and telecommunications policies.
unfortunately, austerity policies and budget cuts are putting these objectives on the back burner and mortgaging the future by imposing a financial allocation that cuts the budget of the connecting europe facility by 40% and the share of the energy sector by almost 44%.
the existence of reliable and efficient transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructures is unquestionably important for the promotion of development and economic and social cohesion.
the rapporteur sets out some of these areas in his explanatory statement, helping to make it clearer what is at stake here: water supply, housing, waste management, health care, education and culture, amongst others.
public procurement is an important instrument for defending employment with rights, promoting economic activity and preserving the environment, that is, everything that is threatened by the subjection to the rules of capitalist competition that this agreement sacralizes.
it aims to implement the europe 2020 strategy to achieve the objectives set in employment, education, research and innovation, combating climate change and poverty reduction.
i would also like to take this opportunity to stress that this agreement will support youth employment, make the european union more innovative, design new transport, telecommunications or energy networks and also reduce poverty levels in the world.
ensuring the provision of services of general interest to the population, including access to essential services such as water supply, housing, waste management, health care, education and culture, remains one of the most important functions of a government.
public procurement is also an essential instrument for stimulating employment and economic activity in a region and for promoting a high level of environmental protection and decent working conditions.
this agreement will ensure the quality and accessibility of the provision of services of general interest to the population, including access to essential services such as water supply, housing, waste management, health care, education and culture.
changes were needed at the general level and also in the context of the evolving global trading environment.
i believe that we must ensure the provision of services of general interest to the population, including access to essential services such as water supply, housing, waste management, health care, education and culture.
i reiterate the importance of this agreement because, for many countries, public procurement is also an essential instrument for stimulating employment and economic activity in a region and for promoting a high degree of environmental protection and decent working conditions.
public procurement - an important tool for protecting jobs, the economy and the environment - has long been the target of voracious appetites.
the rapporteur lists some of the areas that big transnational capital wants to tackle: water supply, housing, waste management, health care, education and culture, among others.
it also introduces revised standards for technical specifications on environmental matters, simplification of statistical reporting obligations and new provisions for developing countries wishing to join the acp.
− education and training are at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, and none of these objectives can be achieved without strong investment in human capital.
finally, i recall the resolution of 8 june 2011 entitled 'investing in the future: a new multiannual financial framework (mff) for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe', which reiterates that sufficient additional resources are needed to enable the union to meet its existing policy priorities.
− the protection and promotion of creativity and culture are necessary to strengthen the roots and future of european unity in diversity, with its pluralism, democracy and peaceful coexistence, as well as to strengthen the social model, innovation, social inclusion, sustainable development, intercultural dialogue and openness to third countries.
− the protection and promotion of creativity and culture are necessary to strengthen the roots and future of european unity in diversity, with its pluralism, democracy and peaceful coexistence, as well as to strengthen its social model, innovation, social inclusion, sustainable development, intercultural dialogue and openness to third countries.
it is essential to protect and promote creativity and culture, which contribute decisively to strengthening education, stimulating innovation, entrepreneurship, sustainable and smart growth, as well as social inclusion and intercultural dialogue.
the new creative europe programme for 2014-2020 is based on values such as pluralism, democracy and peaceful coexistence, innovation, social inclusion, sustainable development, intercultural dialogue and openness to third countries.
− the protection and promotion of creativity and culture are necessary to strengthen the roots and future of european unity in diversity, with its pluralism, democracy and peaceful coexistence, as well as to strengthen its social model, innovation, social inclusion, sustainable development, intercultural dialogue and openness to third countries.
in addition, in the fields of energy and telecommunications, there is no list of projects of common interest to finance, which may give the commission too much discretion.
− this regulation establishing the connecting europe facility plays a key role in the objective of growth and competitiveness in the field of transport, energy and telecommunications.
the energy sector will receive €5.12 billion to modernise, develop infrastructure and strengthen the security and supply of the union.
− the european energy and climate strategy must combine economic competitiveness with energy security and environmental concerns.
to achieve the proposed objectives, it is essential that there is strong investment in energy and transport infrastructure.
the connecting europe facility aims to accelerate the development of infrastructure in the areas of energy, transport and information and communication technologies (ict).
i would draw particular attention to this mechanism for supporting islands and outermost regions such as the canary islands, madeira, the azores and the french outermost regions, whose specific requirements in terms of energy infrastructure must be taken into account.
in conclusion, we must consolidate and expand our energy and transport infrastructures while implementing internal market legislation and strengthening competition rules, and we must design our legislation in such a way as to protect consumers and ensure a flexible market.
- the connecting europe facility will operate in the fields of transport, energy and telecommunications and will have a budget of around €29.3 billion for the next seven years.
the connecting europe facility aims to focus resources on projects with european added value in the field of transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure.
i also believe it is essential to promote and stimulate synergies between energy, transport and telecommunications.
transparent and simplified management contributes to a more effective european funding for the union's major transport, energy and ict policy priorities.
- this proposal for a regulation establishes the connecting europe facility and lays down the conditions, methods and procedures for granting eu financial assistance to trans-european networks, in particular to projects considered to be of common interest in the transport, telecommunications and energy infrastructure sectors.
− the regulation proposing the creation of a connecting europe facility aims to concentrate resources on projects with european added value in the field of transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure for the creation of integrated european networks, ensuring a high level and equitable performance of these infrastructures throughout the union, to centrise, simplify and make conditional the allocation of funds allocated to this regulation throughout the union, exploiting synergies between the three sectors simultaneously, to judiciously share resources between direct aid and the participation of new financial instruments, to associate the market and to multiply the efficiency of european credits, and to improve the financial, technical and operational integration of cohesion countries by integrating part of the cef funds under the cohesion fund rules in the field of transport.
the proposal for a regulation establishes the connecting europe facility and lays down the conditions for granting union financial assistance to trans-european networks, in particular to projects considered to be of common interest in the transport, telecommunications and energy infrastructure sectors.
the objectives include a 20% reduction in ghg emissions compared with 1990, a 20% increase in energy efficiency and a 20% increase in the share of renewable energy by 2020, all of which remain important.
this regulation also lays down the allocation of resources under the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, which, out of the eur 33,242 million allocated to the mechanism, allocates eur 5,850 million to the energy sector and eur 26,250 million to the transport sector, of which eur 11,305 million will be transferred from the cohesion fund to be spent in accordance with this regulation.
it is clear that the move under way is intended to contribute to greater liberalization in the sectors concerned, with the railway, energy and postal and telecommunications sectors currently being the ones targeted by economic interests.
− the european energy and climate strategy must combine economic competitiveness with energy security and environmental concerns.
to achieve the proposed objectives, it is essential that there is strong investment in energy and transport infrastructure.
in conclusion, we must consolidate and expand our energy and transport infrastructures while implementing internal market legislation and strengthening competition rules, and we must design our legislation in such a way as to protect consumers and ensure a flexible market.
from an environmental point of view, we know that in urban areas transport causes problems of congestion, noise and air pollution, with a negative effect on air quality and the quality of life in cities.
− i approve this report, taking into account that the convention aims to establish a framework for bilateral or multilateral cooperation with a view to preventing and controlling pollution of transboundary watercourses and ensuring the rational use of water resources.
the convention aims to establish a framework for bilateral or multilateral cooperation to prevent and control pollution of transboundary watercourses and to ensure rational use of water resources by the countries members of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece).
- i voted in favour of the report on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes, since the adoption of the amendments to the helsinki convention will allow any state which is a member of the united nations to accede to the convention with the approval of the parties, with a view to preventing and controlling pollution of transboundary watercourses and ensuring the efficient use of water resources.
− the protection and use of international watercourses and lakes (the helsinki convention) aims to establish a framework for bilateral or multilateral cooperation to prevent and control pollution of transboundary watercourses and to ensure rational use of water resources by the member countries of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece).
the convention aims to establish a framework for bilateral or multilateral cooperation to prevent and control pollution of transboundary watercourses and to ensure rational use of water resources by the countries members of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece).
− the convention of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes aims to prevent and control pollution of transboundary watercourses and to ensure the rational use of water resources through bilateral or multilateral cooperation by unece countries.
the eu has been a party to the convention since 1995. since water resources are often shared natural borders between neighbouring countries, they must cooperate and adopt measures for the sharing of their protection and environmental monitoring, as well as measures for their rational use, prevention and control of pollutants, information exchange and alarm systems.
the convention aims to establish a framework for bilateral or multilateral cooperation to prevent and control pollution of transboundary watercourses and to ensure rational use of water resources by the countries members of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece).
− the convention on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes provides a framework for bilateral or multilateral cooperation to prevent and control pollution in these watercourses.
i am in favour of adopting this recommendation because i believe that pollution should be minimised.
with the conclusion of the agreement on the establishment of the international fusion energy organisation iter (eu, japan, russia, usa, china, republic of korea and india) for the joint implementation of the iter project, the community has committed itself to hosting and leading the construction of iter and, it is expected, its future operation.
in my view, fusion energy research and development will have to overcome the reduction in the european union's nuclear power powers.
in order to keep the temperature increase to 2 oc, the reduction in global emissions will result in a limited use of fossil fuel-based energy.
in this context, iter is a key element of energy research as well as of the strategic energy technology plan.
investing in research into technologies with an energy potential that respects the environment, including the development and exploitation of fusion energy, can only be done with my approval.
iter is a worldwide project on the establishment of the international fusion energy organization iter (eu, japan, russia, usa, china, republic of korea and india).
unlike nuclear fission, which releases energy when a heavy atom splits into two lighter elements, fusion releases energy when the nuclei of two light atoms join together, for example, when two hydrogen nuclei fuse to form a single new atom.
this process releases a huge amount of energy without emitting any greenhouse gases.
the european economic and social committee called for more investment in r & d of technologies with an energy potential that respects the environment, including the development and exploitation of fusion energy.
fusion releases energy when the nuclei of two light atoms join together, for example, when two hydrogen nuclei fuse to form a single new atom.
this process releases a huge amount of energy without emitting any greenhouse gases (ghgs).
the strategy for the development of fusion as a credible option for commercial ghg-free energy production will respect a roadmap with important milestones for achieving the 2050 electricity production target.
− the euratom research and training programme (2014-2018) focuses on research in the nuclear energy (fusion and fission) and radiation protection sectors.
iter (international thermonuclear experimental reactor) is a key element of energy research as well as of the strategic energy technology plan.
the rapporteur argues that the iter project is valuable because it explains how iter is a possible energy source for the future that is not only safe and sustainable but also highly economically viable for the european union.
whether or not a member state decides to use nuclear energy, all member states can and should benefit from nuclear research and the european added value of the euratom programme.
the report by mr skinner is on the proposal for a council regulation on the european atomic energy community's research and training programme (2014-2018) which complements horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation i believe that in the second pillar of the horizon 2020 framework programme it is essential to avoid a shortage of nuclear skills.
the overall objective of the euratom programme is to improve nuclear safety and security and radiation protection and to contribute to the long-term decarbonisation of the energy system in an efficient and secure manner.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union strategy and its implementation in the light of the outcomes of the energy union strategy.
it is also essential that further support is given to other research projects on the subject, such as the joint european torus, which is where the most accurate information on fusion energy in the eu can be obtained.
the express objective of the euratom programme is to improve nuclear safety and security and radiation protection and to contribute to the long-term decarbonisation of the energy system in a safe, efficient and secure manner.
the objectives of this regulation shall be, inter alia, to: - promote a genuine nuclear safety culture and governance and the management and enforcement of the highest standards of nuclear safety and radiation protection; - responsible and safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, decommissioning and rehabilitation of old nuclear power stations and installations in third countries.
the rapporteur stresses the importance of long-term environmental protection, the need to ensure that nuclear materials are not diverted to non-civil purposes, and the importance of supporting education and training.
the rapporteur stresses the importance of long-term environmental protection, stresses the need to ensure that nuclear materials are not diverted to non-civilian purposes and underlines the importance of continuing support for the education and training of staff in regulatory bodies, technical support organisations and nuclear operators.
recognising that early shutdown represents exceptional social, environmental, economic and financial burdens, the european union has committed to provide financial assistance by the end of 2013 for the decommissioning of these reactors and to address the consequences of early shutdown.
early closure represents exceptional social, environmental, economic and financial burdens and the european union has therefore committed to providing financial assistance until the end of 2013. the beneficiary member states updated their estimates and found a deficit of 2 500 million in relation to the current available budget at national and programme level.
the eu has committed to provide financial assistance by the end of 2013 for the decommissioning of these reactors and to address the consequences of early shutdown, including the exceptional social, environmental, economic and financial burdens.
this is a sensitive issue, given the public health and environmental dangers involved, and we feel it is right that the necessary support should be given to these countries.
recognising that early shutdown represents exceptional social, environmental, economic and financial burdens, the european union has committed to provide financial assistance by the end of 2013 for the decommissioning of these reactors and to address the consequences of early shutdown.
the european union has committed itself to provide financial assistance by the end of 2013 for the decommissioning of these reactors and to address the consequences of early closure, including the exceptional social, environmental, economic and financial burdens.
this is a sensitive issue given the dangers to public health and the environment and we feel it is right that the necessary support should be given for its implementation in a more appropriate way and taking into account human and environmental safety.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
- madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, today we are closing the long marathon which, over more than three years, has mobilized the entire european agricultural sector, environmental organizations, european, national and regional political institutions and many citizens.
i conclude by expressing the hope that history will confirm today's date as a turning point and at the same time as a reinforcement of the oldest community policy, which europe needs today as much as in the past and which allows us to continue to be leaders on the world market, to remain at the top of food quality and food safety and to keep europe's rural areas alive and sustainable.
the road to liberalization and deregulation is being widened, and this is taking us further away from what should be the primary objective of agricultural policy: ensuring food security and food sovereignty in each country in a sustainable way.
from the beginning of this process we have been fighting for a genuine cap, capable of becoming a fairer policy in the distribution of aid, more sustainable and competitive, guaranteeing productive and profitable farms throughout the union.
the introduction of environmental criteria for the award of aid at the expense of production, the introduction of greater fairness and equity between member states and farmers, the priority given to young farmers, the positive discrimination against small farmers and the simplification of bureaucracy represent a historic turning point and an agricultural and environmental benefit that will be confirmed in the future.
the aim is therefore to bring the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework into force as early as january 2014 and for member states to start applying this funding to sustainable value-added projects capable of creating jobs and growth.
for the first time, the commission has detailed a list of priorities it wants to see adopted: the railway package, the long-term investment fund, the telecommunications package, the european union's emissions trading scheme for aviation.
the navigation system has implications for the daily lives of european citizens and can improve safety and efficiency in aviation, maritime and road transport, agriculture and the environment.
the decline in tourism revenues and foreign direct investment flows, the increase in energy prices and the repeated disruptions in the supply of natural gas from egypt have hampered economic growth, thus resulting in a deterioration in the country's balance of payments and fiscal position.
− the new cohesion policy rules aim to reduce red tape and support projects in areas such as innovation, research and energy efficiency.
objectives which are made clearer by the rejection of our proposals to give the funds new objectives, namely: to create jobs with rights; to defend and strengthen public services; to promote the sustainable development of the agricultural, fisheries and aquaculture sectors with a view to ensuring the food sovereignty and security of the member states; to promote the development of the weakest productive systems and the member states with the greatest deficits; to clarify the public ownership and management of the infrastructure to be financed.
the reform of cohesion policy for the period after 2013 is appropriate and necessary to ensure a sustainable economic recovery and enhance competitiveness.
− the esf should improve employment opportunities, strengthen social inclusion, combat poverty, promote education, skills and lifelong learning and develop active, comprehensive and sustainable integration policies within the framework of the tasks conferred on it by article 162 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu).
the european parliament has succeeded in broadening the scope of support by introducing the eligibility of small-scale cultural and sustainable tourism infrastructure, while also allowing support for productive investment in large enterprises.
this is an important step forward in improving coordination and strengthening synergies with these funds and their implementation, with a view to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, in line with the europe 2020 strategy.
− cohesion policy funds are crucial to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and the priorities of smart, inclusive and sustainable growth.
the erdf should also support innovation, research, the climate change objective and will have to boost the economy through support for smes and entrepreneurship.
i therefore underline the work done and the importance of this report, which contributes to a clearer and simpler investment framework, thanks to significant improvements in the coordination and enhancement of synergies with the funds and their implementation, with a view to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, in line with the europe 2020 strategy and the stated objective of increasing the added value of interventions.
this is essentially aimed at promoting private infrastructure investment or privatisation, or at promoting the (well-known) public-private partnerships, whether in the field of water, energy, telecommunications and transport infrastructure, which are essentially dominated today by the large private monopolies linked to the major powers of the eu.
− the proposal submitted by the european parliament extends the scope of the fund by introducing the eligibility of small-scale cultural and sustainable tourism infrastructures.
the erdf will make eligible investments in cultural infrastructure and the promotion of sustainable tourism, as well as transport infrastructure promoting local and regional mobility.
environmental protection and the promotion of resource efficiency, especially in the water sector, are areas that should benefit from the etc.
in its proposal for a regulation laying down common provisions for all the funds which will replace the current general regulation (the gfr), the commission advocates a different structure of missions and objectives for the funds, assigning them to the investment for growth and jobs goal in order to contribute to the union strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in particular, i am pleased that the new cohesion policy rules are less bureaucratic and that they support projects in areas such as innovation, research and energy efficiency.
- i voted in favour of the report on the cohesion fund, as it will make it possible to provide financial support to member states with lower per capita incomes by co-financing key projects and infrastructure, in particular in the area of the environment, which will help to support the transition to a low-carbon economy in all sectors, promote adaptation to climate change and risk prevention and management, as well as protect the environment and promote energy efficiency.
in the proposal for a regulation laying down common provisions for all the funds which will replace the current general regulation, the commission advocated a different structure of missions and objectives for the funds, assigning them to the investment for growth and jobs goal in order to contribute to the eu strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
it supports investments in the ten-t transport networks and in the environment.
it will support energy-related projects, provided that they have clear environmental benefits, for example by promoting energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy.
it will support investments in climate change adaptation and risk prevention, in the water and waste sectors, in low-carbon transport systems and in urban transport.
investment in network infrastructure linked to water and waste collection and distribution is promoted, citing the need for its rationalisation, with the clear aim of promoting its privatisation.
the fight against climate change is one of the main objectives and the specialisation of regions and countries with weak productive sectors is one of them.
by mystifying environmental problems, those responsible for them and the necessary measures.
as regards investment priorities (article 3), environmental issues have received particular attention, with a major commitment being made in the water and waste sectors, where investments are not only intended to meet the requirements of the union's environmental acquis, but also to respond to needs identified by member states that go beyond those requirements.
− the cohesion fund aims to support member states with a gni per capita below 90% of the eu27 average to integrate into the european union's single market by financing essential transport infrastructure and promoting compliance with environmental standards, through support for energy-related projects, provided that they have clear environmental benefits, such as the promotion of energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy.
our amendments on this point have been accepted by the council, which will facilitate and encourage territorial cooperation in areas such as transport, energy or water supply, as well as health, education and vocational training.
the objectives of the european groupings for territorial cooperation (egtc) are simplification and rapid authorisation, legal certainty, reduction of red tape and extension of their scope to the areas of public transport, energy, water supply, health, education and vocational training.
- i approve this report, stating that from the beginning of this process i have been fighting for a genuine reform of the cap capable of becoming a fairer policy in the distribution of aid, more sustainable and competitive, guaranteeing productive and profitable agricultural holdings throughout the union.
that of liberalization and deregulation, which leaves portugal further away from what should be the first objective of an agricultural policy: ensuring food security and food sovereignty in each country in a sustainable way.
the new cap will respond to the challenges posed by a highly competitive global market, climate change, soil saturation, population growth, ageing populations and rural neglect.
farmers face a twofold challenge: to produce more food on an economically viable basis, and at the same time to protect nature and safeguard biodiversity.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
- i support this report because i believe that rural development is an important part of the sustainable development of the regions of the european union.
- i voted in favour of the report on the european agricultural fund for rural development, as i thought that the rapporteur had done an excellent job of ensuring that the new common agricultural policy is better for farmers and the environment, through measures such as the increase in the co-financing rates for agri-environmental measures and the definition that at least 30% of the investments will be directed towards the implementation of these measures.
it is not too much to recall the priorities for rural development: fostering knowledge transfer and innovation; strengthening competitiveness; promoting the organisation of food chains and risk management; restoring, preserving and improving ecosystems; promoting resource efficiency and the transition to a low-carbon economy; promoting social inclusion, poverty reduction and economic development in rural areas.
without this notion it is not possible to understand much of the policy options which arise in particular from the needs of territorial occupation, of protecting the environment of the settlement of populations.
given that almost 60% of the population of the 28 eu member states live in rural areas and that these cover 90% of the territory, the importance of a living and sustainable natural area for european citizens is clear.
knowledge transfer, innovation, the organisation of the food chain, risk management, young farmers and environmental protection are key themes under this regulation.
from the beginning of this process i have been campaigning for a genuine reform of the cap, capable of becoming a fairer policy in the distribution of aid, more sustainable and competitive, guaranteeing productive and profitable farms throughout the union.
in a more efficient, intelligent, inclusive and sustainable europe, all excessive and unjustified administrative burdens and costs need to be eliminated.
i regret the treatment of the milk sector because of the absence of concrete measures to ensure its sustainability in our country and in the azores region after the end of milk quotas.
− i approve this report, taking into account the new rules for direct payments which should ensure a fair and sustainable distribution of resources.
i also support the idea of an ambitious greening of direct payments to farmers, which is one of the answers to today's environmental and social challenges.
however, i believe that the current proposals are insufficient to allow the creation of advanced systems of sustainable agriculture, which are fundamental to the sustainable territorial development of rural areas.
- this proposal for a regulation sought to give priority to the ecological component and to small farms and young farmers in direct payments.
− as an essential subject of the common agricultural policy and a major priority of the current reform, direct payments to farmers should better reflect the public service provided by farmers, particularly in relation to efforts to protect the environment.
this will allow a balance to be struck between income support and the new public challenges, integrating environmental requirements in the first pillar of the cap in the form of a strong ecological component.
by linking financial support to actions beneficial to the environment and climate, the reform seeks to involve all farmers in this issue and thus provides a new justification for supporting farmers' income.
in particular, some member states are already facing or are at risk of facing serious difficulties, including problems of economic growth and financial stability, as well as a deterioration in the government deficit and debt situation, also reflected in the international economic and financial environment.
it does not therefore contribute to the sustainable management of tuna resources in the western and central pacific ocean.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
i hope that the sustainable exploitation of the country's marine resources will have a positive impact not only on the union's fishing fleets but also on the local economy itself, and that the partnership with the european union will enable the republic of kiribati to increase its capacity and employability in this sector and protect the diversity and renewal of the fisheries species in its seas.
the new protocol also meets the objectives of the fisheries partnership agreement, which are to strengthen cooperation and promote a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources, in the interests of both parties.
- i voted in favour of the report on the location of the seats of the institutions of the european union because i believe it is important to make a revision of the treaties possible, so that it is possible to propose the necessary amendments to enable the european parliament to decide on the location of its seat, which is currently fixed by the member states by unanimity, with a view to greater rationalisation of economic and environmental costs.
as the data in this report show, in addition to the budgetary and environmental costs of the current situation, the profound changes in the ep's powers, in particular the increase in the number of procedures in which it is co-legislator, alongside the council, and which has resulted in a 150% increase in interinstitutional meetings, make it advisable for the ep to work from a single workplace at the headquarters of the other institutions of the union's government.
i would also point out that the current system also incurs unnecessary additional environmental, organisational and logistical costs, with estimates of between 11 000 and 19 000 tonnes of additional co2 emissions alone.
i would like to stress, as a matter of urgency, clean energy with renewable sources, energy efficiency and the introduction of a new horizontal area entirely devoted to maritime issues.
this was probably one of the most intense debates we have had in the development of this process, but we ended up with a redefinition of priorities that puts health and active ageing first and raw materials second, which are scarce as we know, particularly with regard to sustainable exploitation of raw materials, recycling and replacement.
the european innovation ecosystem needs to be more effective and serve a dynamic and sustainable economy.
horizon 2020 will bring many opportunities to countries in portugal's situation, because it is a programme with simple rules and a very suitable and favourable funding model; because it covers the areas of greatest expression for europe and for countries like portugal (health and energy, transport, sea, environment, social sciences and humanities); because it introduces modes of participation designed for institutions with little experience in international projects, although they are excellent, such as twinning, return grants, era chairs, innovation vouchers; because it has a second programme for smes worth €8.6 billion.
the conditions are therefore in place for countries such as portugal to increase their participation in horizon 2020, leading to: first, an increase in the employment of qualified young people, countering the brain drain phenomenon we have seen in recent years; second, an increase in internationalisation and consequently an increase in the competitiveness of smes; third, the improvement of the living conditions of all europeans and all those living in europe who will benefit from the results of scientific research in such important areas as health or the environment.
i would stress the importance of measures to improve the conditions for sustainable competitiveness, measures to promote entrepreneurship, measures to improve access to finance for smes, which is so difficult in certain countries of the european union, and finally measures to improve access to markets for smes.
the blueprint document one year ago indeed developed a long-term perspective towards a deep, genuinely sustainable and legitimate emu.
first and foremost, let me thank and congratulate the rapporteur, ms haug, and the shadow rapporteurs, for their constructive work on the commission’s proposal for the establishment of the life programme for the environment and climate action.
the final result is good news for the environment and good news for the fight against climate change.
almost eur 3.5 billion will be available between 2014 and 2020 to support projects and initiatives targeting environmental and climate-related challenges.
this will help reinforce a more strategic approach to implementing environment and climate-related policies and will mobilise other eu funds for environmental and climate objectives.
the provisions on capacity building and on dissemination and exchanges of best practice will help people develop quality projects and will spread the benefits of action on the environment across the whole union.
finally, the commission welcomes the possibility of using financial instruments to support climate and environmental projects.
by combining public and private sources of funding, these instruments will attract more investment to combat climate change and protect natural capital.
while the commission fully supports the outcome as far as the substance is concerned, some of the changes introduced to our proposal require us to make two statements: first, on the use of the no-opinion clause for the adoption of implementing acts in connection with the maximum funding that a single integrated project may receive; and, second, on the status of funding of biodiversity in overseas countries and territories.
status of funding biodiversity in octs the commission attaches high importance to the protection of environment and biodiversity in overseas countries and territories, as is illustrated by the overseas association decision proposal which includes these sectors in the areas of cooperation between the european union and octs and outlines the different actions which could be eligible for funding by the european union in this regard.
the best preparatory action has been a successful initiative that has been embraced by octs and has delivered tangible results for biodiversity and ecosystem services.
this specific possibility for funding biodiversity in octs will be complemented by the opportunities offered under article 6 of the life programme for the period 2014-2020.
on behalf of the s&d group.
the agreement reached ensures funding for projects in the priority area nature-biodiversity, which can stop irreversible losses to the environment but also to society and economies, as the cost of biodiversity loss could reach 7% of gdp by 2050. as there are disparities between member states in the use of available funds, we welcome the capacity building in the regions with the lowest use of funds, as well as the increase in co-financing rates in the economically less developed regions.
the budgetary difficulties of some member states cannot be translated into a reduction in investment in the environment and climate areas because this would have catastrophic results.
the financing of integrated projects makes it possible to integrate environmental and climate issues into all european union policies and the implementation of environmental legislation, job creation and growth, which we also consider to be positive.
the life programme is the only european union programme devoted exclusively to the environment.
it is important that new climate objectives are not pursued at the expense of the weakening of nature conservation and biodiversity, this was and should continue to be, in our view, the core of the life programme.
climate change, energy security and ageing population).
with the aim of revitalising the european economy, the europe 2020 strategy focuses on research and innovation to enable the eu to become a knowledge-based economy, which will allow for more balanced, diversified and sustainable growth.
− i welcome this report, bearing in mind that horizon 2020 is intended to bring about a major shift towards greater innovation in europe and, in my view, a budgetary increase of only 6.19% is unlikely to bring sustainable results.
the programme covers all scientific areas such as health, information and communication technologies and energy.
its development, with an adequate budget, will contribute to a modernised higher education system and to a more entrepreneurial environment, resulting in innovative products and services in the market.
the programme covers all scientific areas such as health, information and communication technologies and energy.
− i welcome this report, given that to recover from the multiple crises it is facing, europe must find ways to develop its capacity for innovation, to provide sustainable and efficient solutions to societal challenges, such as those identified in the horizon 2020 initiative, but also to employment and value creation.
its development, with an adequate budget, will contribute to a modernised higher education system and to a more entrepreneurial environment, resulting in innovative products and services in the market.
− the eu2020 strategy, with the weight of objectives and measures that have led to flexible labour relations, increasing and facilitating redundancies, among other policy failures on which its agenda has focused energies, gives a prominent role to the european institute of innovation and technology as a positive contribution to its flagship theme: smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the programme covers all scientific areas such as health, information and communication technologies and energy.
− the europe 2020 strategy, with the weight of objectives and measures that have led to flexible labour relations, increasing and facilitating redundancies, among other policy failures on which its agenda has focused energies, gives a prominent role to the european institute of innovation and technology as a positive contribution to its flagship theme: smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
i would stress the importance of the actions aimed at improving the framework conditions for sustainable competitiveness, the actions aimed at promoting entrepreneurship, the actions aimed at improving access to finance for smes and, finally, the actions aimed at improving access to markets.
the rhetoric of strengthening competitiveness, sustainability, youth entrepreneurship, market access is an illusion.
the programme covers all scientific areas such as health, information and communication technologies and energy.
climate change, energy security and ageing population).
these three components will not only help to reinforce each other but will also make the progress made in this area more solid and sustainable.
− i welcome this report, starting by pointing out that the selection of life projects is mainly based on their quality and their contribution to european added value, with a focus on demonstration/transfer potential and environmental/climate impact.
− regardless of the more or less catastrophic nature of the information we are being given about the environment and climate change, it is imperative to recognise the need to take care of environmental preservation and to contribute to climate security.
i believe that the environment and climate action programme, the fruit of a difficult but committed commitment, is animated by these aims and aims to equip the union with instruments appropriate to the scale of the challenge and to enable us to leave to our children, in the best possible conditions, the territory we love and received from our parents.
the report by mr jutta haug deals with the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation establishing a programme for the environment and climate action (life).
the life programme has been a considerable success in addressing the environmental and climate challenges facing europeans.
the aim of these projects is to support, along with other eu funds, the implementation of the most important environmental legislation.
− with its shortcomings and limitations, the life programme has been able to achieve positive concrete results in the field of nature conservation and biodiversity.
it is important that new climate objectives are not pursued at the expense of the weakening of nature conservation and biodiversity this has been and should continue to be the core of the life programme.
− to endow the life programme environment and climate action programme with an adequate budget and a significant share of overall eu spending is a strong indicator that the european union is serious about its environmental and climate commitments.
life projects are selected on the basis of their quality and demonstration potential and environmental impact.
the life programme promotes the conservation of nature and biodiversity, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
i would stress the importance of the measures envisaged to promote entrepreneurship and training in this field, since they are aimed at creating sustainable employment and have virtually no effect on profitability.
- this report assigns a central role to the military in the security of energy resources and trade routes.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
− this report gives the military a central role in the security of energy resources and trade routes, advocating the reinforcement of eu militarisation, proposing a european army, calling for more military missions and capabilities in the common defence and security policy, and regretting that tactical groups have never been deployed in military operations in the eu.
a centralised management, far removed from reality, unaware of the profound diversity of fisheries in europe, has had disastrous economic, social and environmental results.
the constraint that this institutional framework represents for the implementation of a local authority management system that best serves the objectives of sustainability was evident throughout the process of discussing the reform.
the reform of the cfp, which has been achieved after a long process of analysis, proposals and negotiations, is fairly balanced, especially if we take into account the commission's original proposal which neglected the balance, now closer, between the three fundamental pillars of the cfp: environmental, social and economic.
i am referring to the objective of achieving maximum sustainable yield wherever possible by 2015 and at the latest by 2020, which is achievable for clean fisheries, but very difficult for multi-species fisheries.
the cfp reform now presents the opportunity to improve proximity management, promote sustainability and the exploitation of resources and the viability of coastal communities dependent on fisheries from a more specific view of our regions.
the adoption of a jrc for the outermost regions also makes an indispensable contribution to the promotion of this ecosystem approach which takes account of our sensitive nature and our specific characteristics.
from an environmental point of view, the exclusion of exploitation of endangered resources, such as seafood and cephalopods, and the fixing of pelagic catches within sustainable limits, as well as the reinforcement of scientific cooperation to ensure compliance with sustainability objectives, are of particular importance.
we have said this on several occasions and we reiterate it here: we have nothing against a fisheries agreement with morocco, an agreement which is fair, which respects the principles of sustainability and which is mutually beneficial.
here, as in other waters of third countries where the union stops fishing, its position is occupied by other interests which, unlike what happens among us, ignore human rights and neglect both the fair remuneration of the indigenous populations and a sustainable management of fisheries.
this protocol is compatible with international law, more environmentally sustainable, more economically viable than the previous one.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the increase in the number and severity of disasters worldwide is partly due to the effects of climate change, which also requires that prevention policies be given priority.
the agreement reached with the council differs significantly from the more ambitious proposal put forward by the european commission and also from the position of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of the european parliament, and is therefore not desirable.
the agreement reached has obviously very positive aspects, because it extends the scope of civil protection not only to disasters directly affecting human beings, but also to those affecting the environment or heritage aspects.
in fact, we have been seeing a great increase in so-called natural disasters, but they have much more to do with climate change and the way capitalism is predatory on the environment and its effect on the environment and on human beings, the effect of this voracity of capitalism, but what is certain is that when these disasters do occur, it is important that there is an urgent and effective response to the affected populations and from that point of view, i think this agreement means a step forward.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the areas of the environment, transport, energy, transport and energy.
i believe it is important to move forward with the establishment of fishing opportunities in order to make the activity resulting from them mutually beneficial and based on economic, social and environmental sustainability.
this protocol is compatible with international law, more environmentally sustainable, more economically viable than the previous one.
the agreement also provides for legal obligations to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources on the basis of enhanced scientific cooperation.
this protocol could allow the resumption of fisheries relations with morocco on a new basis, much more in line with the eu's objectives, both from the economic and financial point of view and from the point of view of social and environmental sustainability.
i therefore consider that this protocol is compatible with international law, is environmentally sustainable and at the same time more cost-effective than the previous one.
a fair, sustainable and mutually beneficial agreement.
as long as it's a fair deal, that respects principles of sustainability and mutual benefit.
- i voted in favour of this report because the objective of the convention is to prevent and reduce chemical-induced occupational diseases and injuries and to strengthen the protection of the general public and the environment.
this convention is an important instrument for the protection of workers, the environment and society as a whole.
the chemicals convention no 170 is an important instrument for the protection of workers, the environment and society in general.
- like the rapporteur, i support the ratification of convention no 170 on chemicals, which is an important instrument for the protection of workers and the environment.
the report by mrs jutta steinruck deals with the proposal for a council decision authorising the member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, the international labour organisation convention on the safety of chemicals at work, 1990 (convention no 170) convention no 170 was adopted at the 77th session of the international labour conference on 25 june 1990 and entered into force on 4 november 1993. the aim of the convention is to prevent and reduce chemical-induced workplace illness and injury and to enhance the protection of the general public and the environment.
the convention was adopted at the 77th session of the international labour conference in 1990 and entered into force in 1993. the aim of the convention is to prevent and reduce chemical-induced workplace illness and injury and to further enhance the protection of the general public and the environment.
- convention no 170 is an important instrument for the protection of workers, the environment and society in general.
convention no 170 is an important instrument for the protection of workers, the environment and society in general.
the international labour organisation adopted in 1990 the convention on the safety of chemicals at work, which has proved essential not only for the protection of workers but also for the environment and society in general.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
convention no 170 was adopted at the 77th session of the international labour conference on 25 june 1990 and entered into force on 4 november 1993. the aim of the convention is to prevent and reduce chemical-induced workplace illness and injury and to enhance the protection of the general public and the environment.
convention no 170 states that the protection of workers from the harmful effects of chemicals also contributes to the protection of the general public and the environment and that access to information on chemicals used in the workplace is necessary.
the agreement allows fishing parameters to be set within the most appropriate sustainability standards.
this will create a new framework favourable to the interests of both parties, in which it will be possible to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and a reasonable exploitation of fisheries resources.
− the treaty on the functioning of the european union recognises that the structural, social and economic situation of the outermost regions is characterised by remoteness, insularity, small size, adverse topography and climate and their economic dependence on a small number of products, which seriously hampers their development.
the report by mr gabriel mato adrover refers to the proposal for a council regulation on the opening and administration of autonomous tariff quotas for the union for the import of certain fishery products into the canary islands from 2014 to 2020. as the canary islands are an outermost region, the treaty on the functioning of the european union recognises that the structural, social and economic situation of these regions is characterised by remoteness, insularity, small size, adverse topography and climate and their economic dependence on a limited number of products, which seriously hampers their development.
the remoteness, insularity, small size, topography and adverse climate are factors that make the outermost regions economically dependent on the outside world.
this requires member states to strengthen cooperation between themselves, to implement appropriate legislation and to demonstrate commitment in this area by creating an environment conducive to private investment.
in addition to cost savings and substantial efficiency improvements across the economy, it also has a significant environmental impact, as it allows for more efficient use of equipment.
it should therefore address all the concerns of fishermen and facilitate a more regional approach, so that there is a specific view of regional challenges, in order to better promote the sustainability of fisheries resources, to promote the viability of coastal communities dependent on fisheries.
- i voted in favour of the report on the common fisheries policy, because it includes proposals for a more sustainable exploitation of marine resources, including requirements to end overfishing, allow the rebuilding of stocks in line with the principle of maximum sustainable yield, prohibit discards and create marine protection areas and no-take zones in the eu.
the european commission has repeatedly stated that the objectives of the common fisheries policy are to protect stocks against overfishing, to guarantee fishermen an income, to ensure that consumers and the processing industry are regularly supplied at reasonable prices, and to exploit living marine resources in a biologically, environmentally and economically sustainable way.
the reform will help to tackle problems such as the constant overfishing of the seas, since under the new text the council of the european union will be obliged to act in a sustainable way in the context of its annual decisions on catch quotas.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the cfp contributes to the economic, environmental and social sustainability of this sector.
- i voted in favour of the new common fisheries policy because i consider it a key document for the future sustainability of the eu's fisheries sector.
the new cfp has greater environmental concerns, for example, it prohibits discards, since almost 20% of what was caught was thrown overboard.
countries should promote sustainable fishing by providing incentives to vessels using selective fishing gear or fishing methods with a reduced impact on the environment.
the new cfp now has long-term plans drawn up by the ec - multiannual plans, which set out rules to protect fish stocks, catch limits, with the sole objective of achieving a maximum sustainable yield by 2015 and in exceptional cases by 2020. each member state now has more money available to collect data on scientific knowledge, to know more about each species, size and breeding.
all stocks should be managed in future in accordance with the principle of maximum sustainable yield.
parliament has also made an important demand in this area, namely that the principle of maximum sustainable income should become a binding principle applicable to all subsequent decisions.
the council of the european union will thus be obliged to act in a sustainable manner in the context of its annual decisions on catch quotas.
i stress the need for the outermost regions to have a new regional advisory council, which will help to promote an ecosystem approach which takes account of the sensitive nature of our specificities and the more regional approach which the common organization of the markets requires.
- i voted in favour of the report on the common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products, because it includes proposals for more sustainable and selective fishing, avoiding unwanted catches and developing a transparent labelling system that includes information on the sustainability of products.
− the objective of this proposal is to ensure sustainable fishing for deep-sea species, reduce unwanted by-catches, reduce the impact on fragile deep-sea habitats and increase the number of biological data on declining species.
the new marketing and labelling rules aim to ensure that consumers are better informed about the quality and sustainability of the products they buy, for example about the fishing gear used and the area in which they were caught.
since 2002, the european union has taken several measures to improve access to deep-sea fisheries in the north-east atlantic, but these have so far not been sufficient to address the various problems, such as the vulnerability of the species and the difficulty of determining the sustainable level of fisheries, the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european union's financial interests against counterfeiting and the unauthorised disclosure of financial information.
the number and severity of natural and man-made disasters have increased considerably in recent years, and climate change is expected to trigger even more severe disasters in the future.
it is therefore necessary to achieve a sustainable internal market for mortgage credit by ensuring that the specificities of each market are respected and subsidiarity and proportionality are preserved.
much of the work on this dossier involves the sustainable establishment of an internal market in mortgage credit, ensuring that the specificities of each market are respected and subsidiarity and proportionality are preserved.
much of the work on this dossier involves the sustainable establishment of an internal market in mortgage credit, ensuring that the specificities of each market are respected and subsidiarity and proportionality are preserved.
− the creation of a stable, resilient, efficient and competitive internal mortgage credit market is vital for sustainable growth and for achieving the eu 2020 objectives.
some of the key points in this report are responsible lending and borrowing; a definition of contracts with special risks, with those being managed through additional measures; the solvency check, which is essential for a sustainable market; the introduction of a cooling-off period, allowing consumers some time to compare the various offers; the right to early repayment, as it must be ensured that consumers are not penalised for exercising their rights; better property valuation for both lenders and consumers; and finally, giving greater power to local authorities, as each member state should have the power to set standards for property loans in its territory.
the rapporteur makes some amendments to the regulation to bring it into line with the general objectives of sustainable economic development, decent working conditions and poverty eradication in bangladesh.
however, i think it is essential that in this new regulation it should be in line both with the general provisions of article 208 tfeu and with the general objectives of sustainable economic development, decent working conditions and poverty eradication in bangladesh, and therefore a new recital and a new paragraph have been inserted in article 1 of the regulation.
the request made by parliament to bring this regulation into line with both the general provisions of article 208 tfeu and the general objectives of sustainable economic development, decent working conditions and poverty eradication should be underlined, and a new recital and new paragraph have therefore been inserted in article 1 of the regulation.
the rapporteur makes some amendments to the regulation to make it consistent with the overall objectives of sustainable economic development, decent working conditions and poverty eradication in bangladesh.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on the establishment of criteria for determining when recovered paper ceases to be waste, because i was opposed to the commission's proposal, which in my view could have negative consequences for the environment, as it would introduce an increased risk to the recycling of waste paper in the european union by favouring its transfer to third countries.
the report by mr matthias groote deals with the timing of greenhouse gas emission allowance auctions.
the excess of co2 allowances, due to the economic slowdown and the fact that supply has been higher than demand, has led to a decline in the carbon price to levels never expected when the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) was created.
this reduction in the carbon price is insufficient to drive sufficiently sustainable scientific and technological innovation and has thus become a factor in reducing incentives to invest in low-carbon technologies.
i agree with this proposal, in that it aims to allow the commission to freeze or postpone part of the auctions for co2 emission allowances in order to increase the price of these allowances and to encourage the development of technologies to reduce emissions in the fight against climate change.
the issue of greenhouse gas emission allowances, the trading of pollution quotas only serves the big polluters, who have the capacity to buy the allowances.
they reduce or delay the issuance of allowances, as the supply is currently much higher than the demand, and the carbon price has decreased from around eur 30/t co2 to around eur 7/t co2.
the promised incentives for the implementation of low-carbon technologies have disappeared.
it is not therefore a question of protecting the environment, but of protecting a market which is in decline because of lack of demand, as a result of the state of many industries, with thousands of factories closing.
- the debate on emissions of polluting gases is becoming increasingly important, but we cannot continue to be hostages to our energy dependence on oil and its derivatives.
we must therefore find energy alternatives that are more environmentally friendly and equally reliable.
however, data from 2010 tells us that there was a 6% increase in carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere.
however, as this report points out, europe is only responsible for 11% of global co2 emissions and our actions in isolation are not enough to stop the process of increasing co2 emissions.
this has to be a joint effort by all the powers, particularly the brics, with increasing responsibilities in terms of co2 emissions.
some short- and long-term measures are needed to rebalance the greenhouse gas emission allowance market, otherwise there will be no incentive to invest in renewable energy with the inherent adverse effects on our environment.
− the european union emission trading scheme (eu ets) is a key instrument for reducing eu industrial emissions in a cost-effective way.
since the start of the second marketing year in 2008, emissions have been reduced by more than 10%.
the original intention was to create a market-based measure that would stimulate the carbon price, thereby positively influencing investment in low-carbon technologies and renewable energy, which in turn would lead to a reduction in emissions.
however, the reduction of emissions in the second marketing period contributed to a large extent to the economic crisis, which led to a reduction in economic activity and production, as stated in the commission report on the situation of the european carbon market in 2012. as there are currently serious imbalances in the system, i voted in favour of this report, which aims to clarify the legal provisions on the timing of auctions and to ensure that the stability and predictability of the eu ets is not undermined, as well as to ensure that an assessment is carried out to avoid any significant impact on sectors at risk of relocation.
− the european union emissions trading scheme (eu ets) was developed with the aim of creating a market-based measure to stimulate the carbon price, thereby encouraging investment in low-carbon technologies and renewable energy.
the eu ets has indeed become a key instrument for reducing industrial emissions in the union, but it currently faces serious imbalances.
the economic crisis we are facing today, combined with the influx of external credits from the clean development mechanism to reduce emissions, among other regulatory provisions, has resulted in the issuance of excess licences, which has resulted in a significant reduction in the carbon price: from €30/t co2 to around €7/t co2.
therefore, and in order to correct the current imbalance, it is hereby proposed that greenhouse gas emission allowances that would have been auctioned in the period 2013-2020 be temporarily suspended.
the issue of greenhouse gas emission allowances and the trading of pollution allowances only serve the large polluters with the financial capacity to buy the allowances.
they reduce or delay the issuance of allowances, as the supply is currently much higher than the demand, and the carbon price has decreased from around eur 30/t co2 to around eur 7/t co2.
where are the promised incentives for the implementation of low-carbon technologies?
it is not therefore a question of protecting the environment, but of protecting a market which is in decline because of lack of demand, as a result of the state of many industries, with thousands of factories closing.
- this proposal is based on the council's proposed regulation laying down certain criteria defining the quantities of non-paper elements in waste and the transformations undergone in order to determine whether they can be reintegrated into paper fibre processing or recycling processes and no longer be considered waste.
the resolution considers that the proposed council regulation is not compatible with its own objective and exceeds the implementing powers conferred on the commission under the basic act, and that the impacts of the draft regulation on paper recycling and transfers of waste paper in the form of a product to third countries are not properly assessed, and is not able to provide the committee with a justification for changing the end point of the waste status.
there is a market and demand for recovered paper by the paper industry and this regulation also aims to meet the standards and specifications of these industries without focusing too much on environmental criteria.
− with this resolution, we want to call on the commission to review the criteria for determining when recovered paper ceases to be waste under article 6 (1) of the waste directive 2008/98/ec.
the commission has not properly assessed the consequences of the draft regulation for paper recycling, the waste paper value chain, the transfer of waste paper to third countries and the overall environmental effects of the draft regulation.
the commission should therefore reconsider the draft regulation and improve the proposed criteria for the establishment of the end of the waste status in the light of the objections raised in this resolution.
- i voted in favour of the resolution of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of the european parliament opposing the adoption of the council regulation establishing criteria for determining when recovered paper ceases to be waste within the meaning of article 6 (1) of directive 2008/98/ec on waste, on the grounds that the draft council regulation is not compatible with the purpose and content of the basic act and exceeds the implementing powers conferred on the commission by the basic act.
- this proposal is based on the council's proposed regulation which lays down certain criteria defining the quantities of non-paper elements in waste and the transformations undergone, in order to determine whether they can be reintegrated into paper fibre processing or recycling processes and no longer be considered waste.
the rapporteur considers that the proposal for a council regulation is not compatible with the proposed objective and exceeds the implementing powers conferred on the commission under the basic act; the committee also considers that the impact of the draft regulation on paper recycling and on the transfer of waste paper in the form of a product to third countries has not been properly assessed.
although this regulation also aims to meet the standards and specifications of these industries, it does not deal much with environmental criteria.
- i agree that this report should have a word of caution and awareness for the situation between sudan and south sudan, encouraging dialogue between the two parties in order to resolve the conflict which impedes the free exploitation of energy and natural resources.
i agree with the insistence that south sudan should also ratify the cotonou agreement and continue on the path to democracy, stability and sustainability.
however, politics is not the only obstacle to south sudan's development: good governance, the fight against corruption, the functioning of administrations and the creation of infrastructure are prerequisites for sustainable economic development.
the european year of volunteering 2011 has four main objectives: to create a favourable environment for volunteering activities, to improve activities by giving better tools to their organisers, to recognise volunteering activities, to raise public awareness of the importance of volunteering activities.
following the european year of volunteering in 2011 and the implementation by some member states of the international labour organisation's volunteering evaluation manual, it is imperative to continue to create an enabling environment for the development of volunteering activities.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
energy, cyber and maritime threats, including organised crime and terrorism threats, are not being adequately addressed by the council, which despite the rhetoric is not investing in the industrial and technological base necessary to build an autonomous and common security and defence policy – just the opposite.
look at the strategic energy production and distribution sectors, put by the tracker privatisation programme under the control of the chinese communist party.
all european policies, if they are to be designed and implemented in the best possible way, need reliable statistical and economic information on the economic, social and environmental situation in the eu and its various components at national level, but also at regional level, because it is at this level, by virtue of the proximity it requires, that the best solutions are drawn up.
this regulation lays down legislation on this subject, since information on the economic, social and environmental components and on the various components of the national and regional functioning of the eu is essential for its correct understanding and for politicians and citizens to have transparent access to the status quo of european reality.
this regulation lays down legislation on this subject, since information on the economic, social and environmental components and on the various components of the national and regional functioning of the eu is essential for its correct understanding and for politicians and citizens to have transparent access to the status quo of european reality.
this regulation lays down legislation on this subject, since information on the economic, social and environmental components and on the various components of the national and regional functioning of the eu is essential for its correct understanding and for politicians and citizens to have transparent access to the status quo of european reality.
this regulation lays down legislation on this subject, since information on the economic, social and environmental components and on the various components of the national and regional functioning of the eu is essential for its correct understanding and for politicians and citizens to have transparent access to the status quo of european reality.
in particular, armenia has been actively participating in the enp since 2004 and in the eastern partnership since its launch in 2009. i therefore understand that the conclusion of this protocol will allow the gradual opening of certain union programmes to armenia or a strengthening of armenia's participation in these programmes, which will provide an opportunity to promote new cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links, improve people-to-people contacts and sectoral cooperation and strengthen political relations through the eastern partnership and the conclusion of the association agreement.
the conclusion of the protocol will allow for the gradual opening of certain union programmes to armenia or an enhancement of its participation in those programmes, which will provide an opportunity to promote new cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links, and will improve people-to-people contacts and cooperation.
the partnership and cooperation agreement between the republic of armenia and the european communities entered into force on 1 july 1999. in addition, armenia has been actively participating in the european neighbourhood policy since 2004 and in the eastern partnership since its launch in 2009. the conclusion of this protocol will allow for the gradual opening of certain union programmes to armenia or an enhancement of its participation in those programmes, which will provide an opportunity to promote new cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links, improve people-to-people contacts and sectoral cooperation, and strengthen political relations through the eastern partnership and the conclusion of the association agreement.
it is an opportunity to establish new cultural, educational, environmental and scientific links as well as to enhance people-to-people contacts and cooperation between the union and the republic of armenia.
as well as the contribution of the measures to the coherence of the union's external action and, where relevant, to the union's priorities for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
but also important are crises and conflicts affecting countries and regions, and other factors such as terrorism, organised crime, gender-based violence, climate change, cybersecurity issues and security threats from natural disasters, insofar as they pose a risk to stability and security.
on the other hand, we have natural and man-made disasters, organized crime, climate change.
this new instrument, innovative in its scope and objectives, should create a positive climate for deepening relations between the european union and the relevant partner countries and promoting the vital interests of the union.
however, the emergence of emerging economies such as brazil, india and mexico and the strategic agreements the union intends to sign show that there was a need for an instrument that would cover these countries, go beyond development cooperation and respond to global challenges such as climate change, cooperation programmes in innovation and technology.
i believe that the commitment made makes positive proposals, in particular with regard to ensuring a human rights-based approach and sustainable development, including measures to support climate change mitigation and adaptation.
it aims to implement the millennium development goals, which focus on poverty eradication, sustainable economic and social development, and the promotion of regional and global integration.
- there is an increasing need to promote the universality and indivisibility of human rights, understood in a broad and interdependent way - civil and political rights, social, environmental, economic and cultural rights.
- there is an increasing need to promote the universality and indivisibility of human rights, understood broadly and interdependently as the acceptance of civil and political rights, but also as social, environmental, economic and cultural rights.
we disagree with the internal energy market, the single transport market, the creation of the single european sky, the liberalization of the postal service, all of which are endorsed in this report, which considers that the public sector tends to be against opening up competition in many important economic sectors such as railways, airports, telecommunications and electricity.
the rapporteur also ignores the main causes and consequences of the distortion of competition rules, namely: the increasing concentration of enterprises; the transformation of public enterprises into private monopolies with serious social implications, particularly in employment and the price of public services; the abuse of dominant positions by various monopoly groups with unacceptable practices in the social and environmental fields, leading to the dismissal of thousands of workers.
parliament also called for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the member states' legislation on the protection of the environment is respected, and called on the commission to present a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
in this way, and in line with the report, it is important to guarantee farmers in these regions a stable and well-paid future, in order to prevent depopulation and abandonment of these areas, with the consequent negative consequences at environmental, social and economic level, it being clear that in most cases the production of milk and milk products is the only source of income.
i voted in favour of this report because we have to ensure that there are no negative environmental and economic consequences at european level.
the rapporteur therefore considers that the eu action plan on resilience should address issues related to food security and resilience to climate change by eliminating unsustainable practices such as dumping of agricultural products and unfair trade rules.
building resilience and promoting sustainable development requires a society-wide approach, including local authorities, civil society organisations (csos), citizens and development partners.
i voted in favour of this report in which the european parliament calls for a strong integration of resilience measures into development aid and humanitarian aid programming, also recognises the challenges posed by climate change and underlines that adaptation to climate change must be taken into account in resilience initiatives.
it calls for a focus on the most vulnerable, poor and marginalised; on strengthening community resilience and promoting sustainable development; and on better coordination of efforts between member states, international organisations, public institutions - including the european parliament - the private sector, ngos and civil society.
the rapporteur therefore considers that the eu action plan on resilience should address issues related to food security and resilience to climate change by eliminating unsustainable practices such as dumping of agricultural products and unfair trade rules.
80 million people with disabilities live in the european union and have a great need for a physical, intellectual and social environment that is accessible and free from prejudice, without barriers, obstacles or stereotypes that prevent the full enjoyment of their basic human rights and european citizenship.
there are more than 80 million disabled people in europe who must be provided with an appropriate physical, social and intellectual environment free of prejudice to enable them to enjoy their rights and participate in all aspects of society.
it calls for an environment free of barriers, obstacles and stereotypes for women with disabilities, so that they can fully enjoy their rights and assume their responsibilities.
these figures show the importance of acting in accordance with our best expectations and creating a favourable environment for all citizens of the european union on an equal footing.
it advocates the creation of an environment free of barriers, obstacles and stereotypes for women with disabilities, so that they can fully enjoy their rights and assume their responsibilities.
i welcome the development of instruments that facilitate access for consumers to transparent, easily understandable, comparable and reliable information on the prices, quality and sustainability of goods and services.
i therefore support simplification, in particular by bringing together various aspects of social and environmental sustainability under a single label, reducing differences between national mandatory labelling requirements.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work.
in one of its three forms, it is a special incentive scheme for sustainable development and good governance, which translates into additional concessions to countries that meet the necessary requirements, i.e.
ratification and effective implementation of the 27 international conventions on human, labour and environmental rights.
we continue to allow natural heritage to be degraded, which jeopardises long-term sustainability and increases vulnerability to environmental crises.
green infrastructure offers a multitude of ecological, economic and social benefits through natural solutions.
in fact, nature can sometimes offer cheaper and more sustainable solutions and contribute to job creation.
green infrastructure has positive effects on climate change mitigation: solutions such as green roofs and walls can help reduce greenhouse gas emissions, in addition to other benefits in terms of water retention, air purification and biodiversity promotion.
green infrastructure initiatives, in particular in the agricultural and forestry sectors, also have a positive effect on carbon stocks and can contribute to the union's policies and its international obligations to combat climate change.
green infrastructure must therefore be integrated into regional development and cohesion policies, climate change and environment policies and also disaster management, as i have said.
the development of so-called green infrastructure, understood as a continuum of ecological structure with functional relevance, can undoubtedly help to lay the foundations for a sustainable relationship between man and nature.
the budget of the european union could and should support these efforts, combining economic and social cohesion with environmental preservation.
- i voted in favour of the report on eco-innovation - jobs and growth through environmental policy, for proposals to deepen the job creation potential associated with environmentally friendly innovations, which make it possible to increase resource efficiency and to manufacture quality products with a lower impact on the environment, through specific financial instruments, investment in education and training and the integration of eco-innovation into industrial policy.
- the report by mrs karin kadenbach focuses on eco-innovation - jobs and growth through environmental policing.
today we are faced with major challenges such as the scarcity of raw materials and dependence on imports, the sustainability of economic growth.
i therefore believe that environmentally friendly innovation is essential, in particular, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to use resources such as water and raw materials more efficiently, to increase the use of recycled materials and to manufacture quality products with a lower impact on the environment, and to develop more environmentally friendly services and production processes.
some 1 million new green jobs have already been created and the global green technology business is expected to double to 3,1 billion by 2020. i believe that eco-innovation is an essential factor in achieving these objectives, it combines environmental protection with growth, competitiveness and job creation.
− the report highlights the importance of eco-innovation for the shift towards an efficient, low-carbon economy; in responding to the complex challenges of food security, climate change, raw material scarcity and the lack of sustainable employment opportunities.
it also mentions the importance of education and training programmes for the development of knowledge, the importance of mainstreaming the concept of eco-innovation in all policy areas, strengthening legislation for the development and use of renewable energy and resource efficiency and creating synergies between all sectors and stakeholders.
we agree on the importance of changing patterns of consumption, production and use of technologies, products and services to reduce environmental impact; and on the idea of creating sustainable solutions in a wide range of areas.
− eco-innovation is emerging in the context of a development that is increasingly sustainable, reducing the impact of our production methods on the environment, using natural resources more efficiently and responsibly, thus helping europe to optimise its growth potential and at the same time contributing to finding answers to challenges such as climate change, resource scarcity or the decline of biodiversity.
this report supports the full dimension of this concept, while also drawing attention to the need to exploit business and employment opportunities alongside environmental benefits by supporting all eco-innovation projects in all sectors.
− the european union is a major player in the eco-innovation process, a concept that combines environmental protection with growth, competitiveness and job creation an essential tool for ensuring social cohesion.
it also underlines that in the next multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, eco-innovation initiatives are covered by the environment and climate action programme (life).
− the report highlights the importance of eco-innovation for the shift towards an efficient, low-carbon economy; in responding to the complex challenges of food security, climate change, raw material scarcity and the lack of sustainable employment opportunities.
it also mentions the importance of education and training programmes for the development of knowledge, the importance of mainstreaming the concept of eco-innovation in all policy areas, strengthening legislation for the development and use of renewable energy and resource efficiency and creating synergies between all sectors and stakeholders.
we agree on the importance of changing patterns of consumption, production and use of technologies, products and services to reduce environmental impact; and on the idea of creating sustainable solutions in a wide range of areas.
- i voted in favour of the report on maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management, as i believe that planning should follow an ecosystem-based approach, taking into account that maritime and coastal activities and uses, such as fishing, energy production and supply, tourism and transport, often take place in ecologically sensitive areas which should be safeguarded.
the main objective is to promote the sustainable growth of maritime and coastal activities and the sustainable use of marine and coastal resources.
this is reflected in the intersection of energy supply, shipping, fisheries and aquaculture and the preservation and protection of the environment.
notwithstanding that fair and relevant issues are addressed; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the marine environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
− the european union has set itself the objective of becoming a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy by 2020. we can only achieve this by properly managing the marine environment and integrated coastal management, and we must not forget that coastal areas are responsible for a large part of the eu economy.
however, the increasing use of coastal and marine areas and the effects of climate change, natural hazards and erosion are putting coastal and marine resources under pressure.
in order to ensure sustainable growth and preserve coastal and marine ecosystems for future generations, integrated and coherent management is necessary.
marine spatial planning is generally understood as a public process of analysing and planning the spatial and temporal distribution of human activities in marine areas with a view to achieving economic, environmental and social objectives.
it is therefore necessary to establish integrated coastal management plans in the member states, which make possible the sustainable development of these areas.
there must therefore be a joint effort by the member states and the union to simultaneously map marine and maritime resources and identify potential and measures to safeguard and protect biodiversity.
marine energy, mining, blue biotechnology and the pursuit of quality and sustainable tourism should be part of this approach, embracing the enormous potential of this area.
the main objective is to promote the sustainable growth of maritime and coastal activities and the sustainable use of marine and coastal resources.
this is reflected in the intersection of energy supply, shipping, fisheries and aquaculture and the preservation and protection of the environment.
notwithstanding that fair and relevant issues are addressed; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the marine environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the report by mr matthias groote deals with the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending certain directives in the fields of the environment, agriculture, social policy and public health as a result of the change in mayotte's status with the union.
since france cannot guarantee full implementation of union legislation from the outset, it will be necessary to define a number of transitional deadlines and provisions, in particular on waste water treatment, dimensions, water policy, bathing water quality management, sizes of cages for laying hens, among others.
i therefore agree with the transitional arrangements proposed by the commission, but i believe that speed in the full implementation of union legislation is the best way forward, both for the environment and public health and for the welfare of the animals on the island.
this report covers the application of specific legislation for waste water treatment, water policy, bathing water quality management, minimum health and safety requirements for workers' exposure to risks from physical agents and patients' rights in terms of cross-border health care, which should be routine.
however, it is impossible for france to ensure such full application of union legislation from the outset and it is necessary to define several transitional deadlines and provisions, in particular on waste water treatment, dimensions, water policy, bathing water quality management, cage sizes for laying hens, minimum health and safety requirements for workers' exposure to risks from physical agents and patients' rights in terms of cross-border healthcare.
- due to the change in mayotte's status with the union, some directives in the fields of environment, agriculture, social policy and public health will have to be amended.
since mayotte will become an outermost region from 1 january 2014 under article 349 tfeu, there are a number of legislative areas that merit timely amendment, in particular in the field of environment, agriculture, social policy and public health.
this report covers the application of specific legislation for waste water treatment, water policy, bathing water quality management, minimum health and safety requirements for workers' exposure to risks from physical agents and patients' rights in terms of cross-border health care, which should be routine.
- i voted in favour of the report on the european maritime and fisheries fund, which provides for support for fishing activities which are more environmentally and socially sustainable, which favour artisanal and selective fishing gear and which ensure the protection of marine resources and the environment.
the involvement of local civil society in this initiative should be encouraged and the long-term sustainability of cultural projects should be improved.
the militarisation of international relations, the international division of zones of influence, the instrumentalisation of the un, the promotion of war, occupation and neo-colonialism, with the main objective of controlling access to and securing control of increasingly scarce natural resources, particularly energy, markets and strategic routes, are all realities present in this resolution.
the crisis exposes the limits and contradictions of the system and of the eu itself, which are reflected in the militarization of international relations, the division of international zones of influence, the instrumentalization of the un, the promotion of war, occupation and neo-colonialism, with the main objective of controlling access to and ensuring the domination of increasingly scarce natural resources, particularly energy, markets and strategic routes.
the resolution welcomes the communication and welcomes the commission's recognition of the importance of preserving biodiversity in europe, protecting and restoring natural ecosystems by creating a green infrastructure that effectively protects natural capital, conserves natural habitats and species and maintains the good ecological status of water bodies.
the budget of the european union could and should support these efforts, combining economic and social cohesion with environmental preservation.
− green infrastructure should help nature to unlock the full potential of the ecosystem services it can provide to society.
i am voting in favour of this report which aims to integrate green infrastructure into all the sectoral policies of the european union and the corresponding financing mechanisms, emphasises the positive effects on climate change mitigation and contributes to water filtration, the prevention of soil erosion and the preservation of the water table.
- the resolution welcomes the communication and welcomes the commission's recognition of the importance of preserving biodiversity in europe, protecting and restoring natural ecosystems by creating a green infrastructure that effectively protects natural capital, conserves natural habitats and species and maintains the good ecological status of water bodies.
the budget of the european union could and should support these efforts, combining economic and social cohesion with environmental preservation.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on the establishment of criteria for determining when recovered paper ceases to be waste, because i was opposed to the commission's proposal, which in my view could have negative consequences for the environment, as it would introduce an increased risk to the recycling of waste paper in the european union by favouring its transfer to third countries.