we call on the commission to re-examine the union's industrial and competitiveness policy, including through the lens of security and accessibility of energy and raw materials supplies.
the committee on industry, research and energy is the rapporteur for the opinion.
as rapporteur for the itre opinion, i believe it is important that the structural funds also contribute to the financing of energy projects, and especially in the less developed areas, particularly in the east of the union.
i also want to stress the need for investment in energy efficiency, including in the housing sector, which must also be supported at local level through financial mechanisms such as loans, grants or non-repayable loans.
large energy infrastructure development projects should also be prioritised and coordination between the structural funds and new instruments such as the connecting europe facility is important in this regard.
given the key role of cities in achieving the economic, social and environmental objectives of strategy 2020, it is clear that we will only be able to compete globally if we effectively exploit the development potential of urban regions and areas through cohesion policy.
a particularly important aspect is the need to promote investment in energy infrastructure and actions aimed at improving energy efficiency, which is so important in regional development.
cohesion policy is an investment instrument that supports competitiveness, stimulates economic growth, creates employment and promotes sustainable development.
they face challenges such as suburbanization, unemployment, social exclusion and, more recently, climate change, to which they need to identify a rapid response that is as relevant to local needs as possible.
i ask mrs jordan if she thinks that only renewable energy should be promoted for sustainable cities and if she thinks that the funds allocated so far for energy efficiency in housing, namely that 4% flexibility rate from the european regional development fund, are sufficient.
i think we should have a minimum of 10 to 15 percent, so that we can ensure efficient transportation across cities and, most importantly, energy efficiency in housing.
protecting biodiversity is a prerequisite for reducing pressures on the environment.
genetic resources are also of particular importance for sustainable agriculture and food security.
a major achievement was the launching of the personalised medicine manifesto which calls for five key actions: 1. ensuring a regulatory environment which allows early patient access to novel and efficacious personalised medicine; 2. increasing research and development for personalised medicine; 3. improving the education and training of healthcare professionals; 4. acknowledging new approaches to reimbursement and hta assessment, which are required for patient access to personalised medicine and its value to be recognised; 5. increasing awareness and understanding of personalised medicine.
another important accomplishment of the cyprus presidency was the launching of the report, ‘building an open innovation ecosystem in europe for healthcare’, which proved that economic growth and lower healthcare costs are possible if europe exploits the opportunities of personalised medicine.
in addition to continuing the efforts of the cypriot presidency, i call on the irish presidency to also create a regulatory environment that will enable equal access to innovative medicine in all member states.
but i believe that this is not enough and that for sustainable regional development we need to develop a framework for integrated, balanced rural-urban development, according to the needs of each region.
in this context, i ask the commission to analyse and propose working methodologies for encouraging urban-rural partnerships, which will lead to combating the depopulation of rural areas and, at the same time, stimulating sustainable urban development.
they would be able to enrich environmental, territorial, commercial and commercial transport policies.
the development and promotion of sustainable, cross-functional networks based on good practices is essential to stimulate the formation of integrated urban-rural partnerships, according to the needs of each region.
− urban development plays a very important role in achieving the economic, social and environmental objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
urban development being a very complex area, the report manages to underline the most important problems that need to be addressed, like the dysfunction of demographic development, completion and restoration of existing parts of cities, including marginalised neighbourhoods, management of waste and many more.
with 80% of europe's citizens living in urban areas and the effects of the economic crisis concentrated mainly in cities, which have felt the effects of the economic crisis the most, facing serious social and environmental problems, we need urgent action to combat climate change, create jobs and increase the well-being and quality of life of citizens.
given the key role of urban areas in achieving the europe 2020 objectives, such as economic, social or environmental, it is clear that we will only be able to compete globally if we effectively exploit their development potential through cohesion policy.
cohesion policy supports integrated sustainable urban development across the eu through investments from the european regional development fund (erdf), the european social fund (esf) and the cohesion fund (cf).
we call for decisive action to tackle energy inefficiency through the functional renovation of buildings and the construction of more resource-efficient housing, including social housing.
we also support the need for action to reduce congestion, pollution and noise levels so that cities can become more competitive in protecting the environment; we voted for the mobilisation of cultural and economic resources to contribute to urban solidarity, inclusion and social integration of vulnerable and marginalised groups in urban areas.
we welcome the provision to delegate to cities the management of specific funds of at least 5% of erdf resources for integrated actions in favour of sustainable urban development.
i support the efficient use of funding programmes under the union's cohesion policy, which emphasise the quantifiable results of the policy in order to increase the sustainability of the investments made.
employment and social policies play an important role in sustainable and socially balanced territorial development and make a significant contribution to reducing regional inequalities and increasing the well-being of citizens.
the territorial approach should be an effective mechanism to support smes in creating new sustainable jobs or developing vocational training programmes.
member states need to improve the current conditions for new entrepreneurs as they contribute to the creation of new sustainable jobs.
this whole climate of insecurity sets up a vicious circle with a great impact on our economy.
beyond the monetary aspects, the scale of this phenomenon significantly calls into question the european union's objective of achieving sustainable, smart and inclusive growth.
the eu strategic framework for the horn of africa should therefore be implemented and its five pillars supported, based on: building democratic, robust and accountable political structures in all countries in the horn of africa; working with the countries of the region and regional and international organisations to resolve conflicts, including by addressing their root causes; taking measures to ensure that insecurity in the area does not threaten the security of other neighbouring states or other regions or countries; supporting efforts to promote economic growth and poverty reduction; supporting regional political and economic cooperation and promoting sustainable economic growth and poverty reduction.
a more open dialogue between countries in the horn of africa on issues of common interest such as migration, arms trafficking, energy and natural resources is indispensable.
the european union must work to encourage local governments to develop long-term educational programmes that give young people in the area a sustainable future.
we also support the five pillars of this strategic framework based on: (i) building democratic and accountable political structures in all countries in the horn of africa; (ii) working with countries in the region and with regional and international actors and organisations to resolve conflicts; (iii) the adoption of measures to ensure that the insecurity existing in the area does not threaten the security of other neighbouring states or other regions or countries; (iv) supporting efforts to promote economic growth and poverty reduction; (v) supporting regional political and economic cooperation; promoting sustainable economic growth and poverty reduction in response to the basic needs of the population.
− i believe that to ensure better ecosystem services, a wide range of genetic resources for food and agriculture is needed, which i believe is essential for both food security and agricultural and ecological sustainability, especially in the current climate change environment.
today, the european union is better equipped with the tools it needs to enable member states to manage their public finances in a sustainable way in the future.
mr prime minister, i absolutely welcome everything you have said here today, but i say to you that nothing you have said is possible if there is no trust, if there is no trust of citizens in the european institutions, if there is no trust between all 27 member states of the european union and if there is no trust of external partners that this construction is coherent and sustainable.
the eu continues to support the peace process in northern ireland by providing long-term political and financial support to ensure a successful and sustainable settlement.
in fact, the major conference in dublin in april will deal with climate change, malnutrition and under-nutrition.
i also believe it is important that the european union continues to take as assertive a political leadership position as possible in combating the effects of climate change.
it is important, however, that at this level the imperative of reducing greenhouse gas emissions is not only the subject of dedicated efforts by the european union but also of a broad coordination of all union policies that have an impact at this level.
this is particularly important in view of the impact that hazardous preparations can have on human health and the environment.
the sustainability of the fisheries sector has thus been put on the back burner.
some 60% of european fish stocks are exploited beyond the maximum sustainable yield.
it hopes that, together with the reform of the common fisheries policy, a new regional framework will allow the rapid identification of appropriate regulatory solutions for the mediterranean sea, which will be accepted by all stakeholders, while effectively ensuring the sustainability of fisheries and the protection of resources and the environment.
− i hope that, together with the reform of the common fisheries policy, a new regional framework will allow for the rapid development of appropriate regulatory solutions for the mediterranean sea, which will be accepted by the member states and the interested parties, taking into account the specificities of this sea basin, while effectively ensuring the sustainability of fisheries and the protection of resources and the environment.
- i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on management measures for the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea.
i welcome the fact that the additional protocol will deal specifically with liability and compensation for damage to biodiversity caused by living modified organisms (lmos).
in doing so, we must take into account adverse effects on the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity and risks to human health.
− the nagoya-kuala lumpur additional protocol on liability and reparation of damage emphasises the responsibility that all countries must have for the environment and i am convinced that it will make a major contribution to the achievement of the objectives of the convention on biological diversity and the cartagena protocol on biological diversity.
the additional protocol complements existing legislation with international rules and procedures on liability and redress for damage to biodiversity caused by living modified organisms (lmos) that have adverse effects on the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity, taking also into account risks to human health.
the nagoya-kuala lumpur additional protocol provides for international rules and procedures on liability and compensation for damage to biodiversity caused by lmos.
the liability provisions of the nagoya-kuala lumpur additional protocol are governed by directive 2004/35/ec on environmental liability with regard to the prevention and remedying of environmental damage.
it establishes a framework based on the 'polluter pays' principle, whereby the polluter pays if environmental damage has been caused.
− considering that the current economic, financial and banking crisis is not abating and that public finance problems are having a negative impact on economic development and political stability, and taking into account that member states are not all in the same situation, it is necessary to apply strategies for sustainable economic growth, differentiated according to the specific recommendations adopted by the council for each country.
the long-term sustainability of public and private finances is a key condition for economic growth and for maintaining public spending, including investment, at an appropriate level.
the basic objective of the plan should be to ensure that the exploitation of cod stocks in the baltic sea can be carried out under economically, environmentally and socially sustainable conditions, and the commission should be given the appropriate powers.
the regulation aims to ensure that cod stocks in the baltic sea are exploited under sustainable economic, ecological and social conditions.
− while a period of transitional measures is still needed in view of the ongoing reform of the common fisheries policy, we must not deviate from the ultimate objective of establishing a clear and balanced legal framework that ensures a suitable living environment for fishermen while protecting fish stocks.
in the black sea, fish species have already disappeared and will continue to disappear unless we manage biological resources in a sustainable way; a key step in this direction is the completion of the cfp reform.
these technical conservation measures will allow the specific designation of fishing areas and gears to protect the marine environment and the ecosystems in which fish live.
moreover, this is becoming a chronic problem at member state level and calls into question the eu's major objective of promoting a sustainable, smart and inclusive growth model.
the european union must act as soon as possible to secure its energy future and protect its interests in this area, and the role of cohesion policy is crucial to this end.
i believe that for the next programming period, additional attention should be paid to the regions on the external borders of the european union and, through well-funded projects from the cohesion and energy funds, an integrated and interconnected energy system should be developed with partner third countries.
i believe that we must also encourage the regions and local representatives to include in the operational programmes the guidelines set by the european union on the development of energy systems and on energy efficiency, which is the most important aspect and would ensure sustainable development, but more than that, would ensure a significant reduction of costs in this area by about 25%.
investment in renewable energy is vital, now more than ever.
i therefore ask the commission to ask the member states to simplify the rules and procedures for accessing structural funds in the field of energy policy and to support them in this respect, because complicated, interpretable, long and non-transparent procedures are the source of failure, including corruption and fraud in accessing these funds.
the use of renewable energy across regions will reduce inequalities between them, inequalities between the way people live and will increase the rate of uptake, to the benefit of european citizens.
i voted in favour of this report because the cohesion fund will play a very important role in achieving the europe 2020 energy efficiency objectives.
my country has set itself a target of reducing primary energy consumption by 19% by 2020. but the target is very ambitious and at the same time very difficult to achieve.
the main lines of action are to improve the efficiency of the energy production and distribution system and to inform the population.
i believe that priority access should continue to be given to renewable energy and investment in this area.
romania is increasingly encouraging this type of energy and is looking to continue promoting renewable energy sources, and the use of the cohesion funds as an additional source of funding for energy projects can contribute to this objective.
− the correlation between cohesion policy and a possible new european union energy initiative is a step forward for the member states and the citizens of the union.
the achievement of an institutional link between two european union policies offers the possibility of taking on the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, especially with regard to greenhouse gas emissions, and increasing energy efficiency.
the launch of regional or crossborder energy projects can help to support the process of sustainable, smart and inclusive growth, which the european union has set itself as the key objective of the next decade.
in addition to avoiding duplication of union efforts, this process can ensure, while promoting the development of energy infrastructure, job creation at a time when more and more european citizens are facing the problem of unemployment.
− i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is necessary and important that cohesion policy is linked to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in order to achieve sustainable and inclusive growth and to support the move towards a low-carbon and energy-efficient economy in all sectors.
in this respect, i believe that coherent rules at european level and a mechanism allowing the authorities to access information from across the union are necessary to fully understand the evolution of the energy market.
another important aspect seems to me to be the need to increase energy efficiency and the development of renewable energy in rural areas.
− the common objectives of european energy policy are security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness.
european energy policy should ensure the security of energy resources, diversification of supply and affordable prices for final consumers.
energy policy should promote growth and job creation at local level in all regions, while ensuring sustainable energy sources and guaranteeing the security of energy supply throughout the union.
investments in energy infrastructure and energy efficiency in the construction and transport sectors will directly lead to the creation of new jobs.
exchanges of good practice across the eu should therefore be encouraged to monitor the impact of energy policies on energy poverty.
the need for energy efficiency and renewable energy development in rural areas is also important and the growing potential for energy saving in rural households, which could require innovative financing schemes, should be highlighted as these communities do not have the necessary financial institutions to support such projects.
− the european union needs a new policy on security and diversification of energy supply.
cohesion policy-supported energy investment is also driving local economic growth and creating new jobs.
in order to have a competitive economy, i believe that the european union must invest in the development of renewable energy.
cohesion funds could help many regions in europe to improve their energy consumption and build energy storage and transport infrastructure.
− i welcome the possibility of improving the flexibility of the use of the structural funds and the cohesion fund, in particular to encourage project submissions by those who need it most, but also to achieve the european union's objective of reducing carbon emissions and increasing energy efficiency in all sectors.
− as rapporteur for the itre commission opinion on the report on the role of eu cohesion policy and its actors in the implementation of the new european energy policy, i voted in favour of it, as i consider that the structural and cohesion funds have a very high potential to support important energy projects such as investments in energy efficiency, including housing.
at the same time, it is important that cohesion policy financial instruments are used in coordination with other funds specifically intended for energy projects, such as the connecting europe facility, in such a way as to create benefits of scale.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on the role of eu cohesion policy and its actors in implementing the new european energy policy, because for the coming programming period, member states need strong eu support to promote smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, while taking into account national, local and regional specificities.
with today's vote, we have removed the restrictions on funding for renewable energy sources and local and regional authorities will continue to benefit from funding for renewable energy projects.
by using community funds wisely for the next programming period, it will be possible to achieve the 20% target for energy efficiency and, by implication, the sustainability and competitiveness objectives in the european union.
last but not least, cohesion policy funds should also be available for the information and training of local and regional authorities, smes and potential beneficiaries on national renewable energy schemes.
− i voted in favour of the report on the role of cohesion policy in implementing the new european energy policy.
these consumers should benefit the most from energy efficiency improvements, but efficient use of structural funds and funds from the eib and other public financial institutions, as well as good coordination between union and national funds, is needed.
we also voted to establish energy efficiency funds at national, regional or local level.
these funds could play a fundamental role in job creation, the development of smes and companies providing energy efficiency services.
− i voted in favour of the resolution and support in particular the paragraph on making investments in energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy, particularly in the housing sector.
by contributing from various european funds to the thermal rehabilitation of collective housing, together with funding from the member states, significant amounts of energy could be saved, especially in eastern european states such as romania.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on the role of eu cohesion policy and its actors in implementing the new european energy policy.
i believe that european energy projects could contribute to regional development and enhance cross-border cooperation by helping regions to improve their capacity to manage energy resources.
investments in renewable and low-carbon energy sources and energy efficiency can also support regional growth and job creation.
i support the need to promote and use the jessica and elena financial instruments for investments in sustainable energy at local level to support cities and regions in launching viable investment projects in the field of energy efficiency, the use of renewable energy sources and sustainable urban transport.
i voted for the revision of vat directive 2006/112/ec to allow for a reduction in the vat rate applied to regional, local and cross-border projects aimed at improving energy efficiency and purchasing products in the highest energy efficiency class, under directive 2010/30/eu.
the roadmap proposed in this report is very ambitious, proposing the issuance of medium-term european bonds that can finance major european projects such as energy or research.
i believe that action is urgently needed to support a long-term strategy for the euro area, ensuring sound public finances, sustainable growth, social cohesion and high levels of employment.
i would like to say to mrs borsellino, who has mentioned this point in particular, that this is precisely one of the objectives we are pursuing in the context of the single market act, where i presented to you, now a year and a month ago, two proposals which have many objectives, in terms of public procurement, but of course also the simplification of public procurement for the benefit of businesses, in particular small businesses and contracting authorities, the qualification of public procurement to take better account of cross-cutting concerns, social inclusion, environmental protection, innovation, but also, ladies and gentlemen, the subjects we have discussed today: the fight against corruption, against favoritism, the requirement for transparency and the fight against conflicts of interests.
i find it regrettable that the executive has decided, by withdrawing the regulation, to ignore the right of european consumers to identify products that meet certain social, environmental and safety standards, depending on the country of origin.
finally, i would stress that the dialogue between the eu and mercosur must also take the form of exchanges of experience and joint initiatives to develop the production and use of renewable energy sources.
i believe the government must make every effort to reduce these tensions and to hold this year's elections in a safe environment.
we call on the commission to support this by opting for a flexible interpretation of the requirements of the partnership and cooperation agreement as regards quantitative restrictions, export duties and property ceilings for foreign investment, especially in the energy sector.
the iraqi authorities should use the country's oil revenues as a tool and opportunity for sustainable social and economic reconstruction, to the benefit of iraqi society as a whole, and should promote a process of democratic reform.
the aim of this agreement, concluded for a period of 10 years, renewable, is to create a solid basis for strengthening the ties between iraq and the eu.
− economic partnership agreements are compatible with world trade organisation rules, agreements aiming to support regional integration through trade development, sustainable development and poverty reduction, while promoting the gradual integration of acp economies into the world economy.
the eu must promote fair trade with developing countries, based on full respect for ilo standards and labour conditions, and ensure that social and environmental standards are applied at the highest possible level.
we also regret the omission of a chapter on sustainable development and a requirement to comply with international labour and environmental standards.
− the economic partnership agreement between the eastern and southern african states and the european community and its member states (esa) is a necessary step towards sustainable growth in the region and highlights the importance of continuing negotiations towards a comprehensive agreement that will encourage trade, investment and regional integration in the region.
in my view, the reform proposed by the european commission is aimed at achieving the common objective of inclusive and sustainable economic growth, and state aid control is essential to ensure the proper functioning of the single market.
the commission should actively promote responsible business conduct, especially among eu companies operating abroad, with a particular focus on compliance with international standards and rules on human rights, labour and social protection and the environment.
- i voted in favour of this resolution on the victims of the recent fires in textile factories, particularly in bangladesh, because the eu, as an importer, must contribute to improving human rights, labour and environmental standards, without which hundreds of workers lose their lives every year.
we call for the establishment of a system of transnational legal cooperation between the eu and third countries that are signatories to bilateral trade agreements, to ensure that victims of breaches of social or environmental legislation, or of corporate social responsibility (csr) commitments or fair trade practices by multinationals and their direct subsidiaries, have effective access to justice in the country where the breach has occurred.
they also need to know the social and environmental standards applicable in the country of origin of the product.
− the european union and mercosur would benefit from an ambitious free trade agreement, including provisions on social rights and environmental protection.
i am, however, disappointed that the text of the proposal refers to the respect by eu trading partners of social and environmental standards in all agreements concluded, but does not refer to the respect by third countries of hygiene and food safety and animal welfare standards imposed on european farmers.
we recall the importance of including respect for democratic principles, fundamental and human rights, the rule of law, and social and environmental standards in all trade agreements concluded between the eu and third countries.
issues such as remoteness, small agricultural area, economic dependence on a small number of products, difficult climate, additional transport costs for the supply of essential products for islanders, long distances from consumer markets, depopulation of these areas and the difficulties faced by banana producers are some of the problems that await a response from the european union, concretised by an increase in the resources allocated to them.
and at the same time, shale gas could provide us with jobs and energy independence.
i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, as an appropriate strategy is needed to develop the existing transport networks in the area, to finance agricultural activities and to protect the environment, and to improve cooperation with local actors in order to implement the existing measures effectively.
a supply guarantee and the preservation and development of sustainable agriculture are some of the important factors needed for the regions in question to have viable farming conditions and be able to compete on the same level as the rest of the eu.
− despite the current difficult environment in which they operate, smes have retained their role as the backbone of the european economy.
− it is a well-known fact that european union’s economic success and cohesion are linked with sustainable growth and job creation.
i endorsed this report, but i have to mention that in simplifying the bureaucratic and administrative environment for small and medium-sized enterprises, there has to be an adequate protection for employees and their rights have to be protected and safeguarded.
there are thousands and thousands of jobs at stake, and they say very clearly: if you cannot get economic powers outside the european union to adopt the same standards, for example, on the environment, then we will be out of this competition much faster than we have to be.
that is why we need, more than ever, structural reforms at national and community level to strengthen the european union's ability to compete globally and generate sustainable growth.
i therefore believe that in the third european semester we must focus our efforts on: improving the business environment by reducing administrative burdens; promoting new sources of capital, including business-to-business lending and facilitating access to risk capital; creating innovative support schemes to make loans cheaper and more accessible to smes; and, last but not least, reducing the tax burden on companies and wage income to stimulate the growth of new jobs in the european union.
i welcome the ep recommendation on improving the business environment to support small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and i believe that the annual policy guidance to be adopted by the european council should pursue this objective: access to finance for smes should be adopted by member states as a top priority in their national growth plans and easier access for smes to european funds should be ensured.
climate change is undeniably real and represents the greatest environmental threat facing humanity.
the doha climate change conference did not lead to a new agreement on the fight against climate change.
the negotiations have led to the extension of the kyoto agreement and an agreement on financial aid for the countries of the south, but these results are not a solution to slowing down global warming.
the next conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change (cop 19) in warsaw in november-december 2013 is of particular importance as an intermediate preparatory stage for the next major international meeting to be held in 2015 in paris, the aim of which is to conclude an international agreement on greenhouse gas reductions involving all countries, including the biggest polluters: china and the united states.
such an agreement is imperative to slow global warming.
member states must reach a clear, firm and united position so that the european union can play a stronger and more influential role in international climate change negotiations.
it's affecting biodiversity as a whole, and all the benefits that it provides us, from water purification and carbon sequestration to soil fertility.
african countries must be supported in their fight to halt the decimation of endangered species and to promote the sustainable use of their increasingly limited natural resources.
42% of consumers believe that a company should be partly or fully responsible for solving the social problems of the community in which it operates, and 49% of consumers take environmental aspects into account when buying a product.
european businesses are currently facing tough challenges due to the crisis, accelerating globalisation and climate change.
through social responsibility, companies seek to build sustainable relationships with employees and customers to develop long-term business models.
employees and consumers defend the interests of companies, combat discrimination and undeclared work and are responsible for their working environment.
motorised transport is one of the main sources of noise pollution.
i therefore consider this report to be an important step forward in tackling the effects of vehicle noise on human health and the environment.
the quality of the road surface also strongly influences the noise emissions generated by the rolling of vehicle tyres.
consumers need clear and transparent information on vehicle noise emissions to make informed purchases.
you can find the proof in international consortia in research for global competitiveness, in the trans-european networks in energy and transportation, and in humanitarian aid worldwide.
the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 should provide the necessary funding for cohesion policy, for agricultural policy, for increasing competitiveness through investment in research and innovation, and in trans-european transport, energy and communications networks.
the aim of achieving a sustainable, sustainable and inclusive development model by 2020 is becoming illusory if the coordination of employment policies at european level is not to be stepped up.
these priorities must remain valid in order to encourage europe's potential for smart and sustainable growth.
− i believe that innovation and research in health bring significant benefits to patients and have positive consequences on the effectiveness and sustainability of health systems.
i voted in favour of this report, which i consider to be much more realistic and balanced, a step forward in fisheries policies, but three things led me to do so: the introduction of the principle of consultation of regional interest groups, which i believe gives the professional communities the opportunity to express their views on fishing situations and to strike a balance between the need to protect the environment and their own survival interests; the decisions on the restoration of fish stocks, the blocking of 10 or 20% of fishing waters for three years, which i consider to be an opportunity for restoring stocks and for a sustainable economy, and last but not least the decision to look beyond the mediterranean and other seas, and the big bang regulation, by trying to find a solution to the cooperation that is taking place in non-member countries.
i have advocated setting targets to restore stocks above levels that can generate maximum sustainable production.
i also voted for a ban on discarding catches, because i think it is a waste.
− fisheries are a natural, renewable, mobile and common property that is part of our common heritage.
since its reform in 2002, the common fisheries policy has had as its main objective to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources and to guarantee stable incomes and jobs for fishermen.
i welcome the commission's proposal to ensure that fisheries and aquaculture activities provide long-term sustainable environmental conditions and contribute to the availability of food supplies.
firstly, i am pleased that it has been agreed to include the professional groups in a dialogue on fishing situations, environmental protection and fish stocks.
secondly, the ban on discarding is a positive thing because it reduces fish waste, which the commission estimates is 23% of all fish caught.
another plus of this report is the policies that aim to restore fish stocks and to prioritise sustainable economics in this industry, a good example being the blocking of certain areas of fishing waters for a period of time to provide the necessary duration for the fish fauna of those waters to recover.
- i voted in favour of this resolution because a sustainable policy for the fisheries sector is needed.
a common long-term policy is essential to preserve the marine environment, both for ourselves and for future generations.
− i totally support a strong cfp reform, therefore a more sustainable fisheries policy.
the preservation of biodiversity, and not least of endangered species, is of great importance.
the current fisheries policy has led to a big number of wasted fish, and now parliament had a great opportunity to vote for a long-term supply of sustainable seafood in europe, as well as for a more secure future for our fishermen.
madam president, noise pollution is an annoyance with adverse health effects that has plagued people for a long time.
a leading cause of this form of pollution is transportation.
just because noise pollution is unlike other types of pollution and cannot be seen, tasted or smelt does not mean that it deserves less of our attention.
i truly believe that the transportation industries – and i mean the big industries – must invest money here in responding to citizens’ wishes and to their need to live in a healthy environment.
− the european authorities have noted in recent years the increasingly significant impact of noise pollution on the health of european citizens.
the fact that no less than 20% of european citizens, especially in urban areas, experience health problems as a result of exposure to high levels of noise pollution is a signal that both national and european authorities need to take into account.
− noise pollution is the bane of big cities, where it affects the environment not only during working hours but also during leisure time.
in general we can talk about an extension of noise pollution to the global level of the environment.
- noise pollution has a major impact on the health and, at the same time, on the well-being of european citizens; i believe it is our duty to do everything we can to reduce the effects of this type of pollution as much as possible.
cars are responsible for a large proportion of noise pollution; therefore, measures must be taken to reduce the noise they emit.
− sound pollution is one of the biggest problems facing europeans today, and it must be tackled with all responsibility, given the clear negative effects it has on public health and the environment.
in this context, the regulation of traffic noise as the main source of noise pollution is a key element of a responsible policy to protect citizens and the environment.
over 60% of the urban population is affected by noise due to heavy road traffic, and bucharest, the country's capital, has the highest percentage of residents exposed to noise, 85%, at noise levels above the sound pollution standards accepted by the world health organization.
if we also take into account that road traffic is accompanied by air pollution, then the risk factors are even more important.
it is therefore important that the european union has an ambitious and realistic strategy on vehicle noise, one which carefully strikes a sustainable balance between a high level of protection of health and the environment on the one hand and the competitiveness of the automotive industry on the other.
− i welcome the commission's initiative to update the limit value for noise emissions from motor vehicles in view of the increase in traffic in europe, especially in large urban centres.
we know that noise pollution is a serious public health issue which disproportionately affects those living in urban areas and near busy roads.
we must therefore encourage the car industry to make quieter engines in order to help achieve lower levels of noise pollution, but without imposing unreasonable costs in what are already difficult economic circumstances, and bearing in mind that traffic noise depends on a number of factors, such as engine noise, tyres, and road surface.
− i welcome the awareness-raising and action on health issues related to environmental noise.
− fisheries resources must be conserved to ensure a sustainable marine environment and to maintain fish stocks.
technical conservation measures must be respected by all fishermen to protect the ecosystem and to allow the development of a sustainable activity.
the doha conference marked an important step in the adoption of a global framework on climate change.
this framework is a major objective that will define a new way of sustainable development globally.
with the kyoto protocol failing to reduce emissions globally, it is clear that we need a stronger instrument.
in addition to renewable energy sources, i believe shale gas could also help reduce carbon emissions.
i'll give the example of the united states, where shale gas exploitation has reduced carbon emissions, causing power companies to replace coal-fired plants with gas-fired ones.
that's why my country is pursuing diversification of energy supply sources, in order to ensure energy independence and reduce emissions.
when it comes to climate change, member states must maintain a common position and a long-term perspective in warsaw, as they did at the last unfccc conference in doha at the end of last year.
the eu must take a global leadership role in combating the effects of climate change and continue to push for an ambitious climate change agenda.
europe must lead by example and honour its commitments to reduce co2 emissions and reduce global temperatures.
that is why the eu must continue to invest in alternative energy.
at the same time, the eu needs to play an active and decisive role in the new climate policies set for the post-2020 period, and this can be facilitated in particular by the fact that this year and in 2015 the unfccc conferences will be held in poland and france respectively.
key areas in which the eib can operate include innovation, education, health, research, transport networks, agriculture and renewable energy sources.
i also welcome the start of the pilot phase of project bonds and believe that their issuance will be an important step in relaunching the financing of major european infrastructure, transport, energy and information technology projects.
− over-exploitation of wild fauna and flora, unsustainable trophy hunting, overfishing, significant increase in poaching, illegal wildlife trade, climate change and deforestation are the main causes of the disappearance of endangered species such as sea cats, polar bears, elephants, corn rhinos and some ornamental plants.
− the conservation of biodiversity is one of the major international issues of our time.
the european union, as one of the most important markets for wildlife trade, has a particular responsibility to ensure that this trade, as well as trade in derived products, is sustainable and does not lead to the endangerment of the species concerned.
i therefore ask the commission to present clear measures to eliminate misleading and false information provided by companies on the environmental impact of products and services, their impact on consumers or on the social commitments and obligations of these companies.
− the concept of social responsibility is essential both for the efficiency of the european social model and for achieving the sustainable and inclusive development objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
it is a philosophy, a way of behaving ethically and responsibly that touches on all aspects: from business, to the relationship with one's own employees, with customers, with shareholders, with suppliers, with the environment and, of course, with local communities.
at the same time, i believe that there should be coherence between social programmes, attitudes towards business, employees and the environment.
− i voted in favour of this report as i welcome the european commission's initiative to develop a csr strategy to support businesses in integrating fundamental social, ethical and environmental rights into their business strategies to ensure better consumer protection.
this will improve the transparency of companies with regard to social and environmental information, which will increase the trust of citizens in companies.
i voted in favour of the report because i believe that corporate social responsibility is a catalyst for sustainable economic recovery in the union.
as the medium and long-term objective of the european union is to generate sustainable, sustainable and inclusive growth in european economies, a hard-hitting approach to social responsibility is inevitable.
i would also like to stress the strategic role of public-private partnerships, which can make smes' efforts to disseminate csr policies more effective through sectoral framework cooperation agreements and a collective approach to social and environmental issues.
− i voted for the report on corporate social responsibility because it is all the more important now, in the context of the current economic and social difficulties facing member states, to support and encourage small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), because they can bring about sustainable economic growth by creating new jobs and, by implication, solve social problems.
in this context, it is useful to propose the creation and implementation of a framework of guidelines which is not a legislative norm but which is appropriate to the needs of smes, supports their development and at the same time harmonises, with optimal results, environmental protection needs and those relating to social issues.
it would be useful for the commission, in cooperation with national authorities and multilateral platforms, to develop a sectoral cooperation mechanism between smes, leading to an integrated approach to existing problems, including those relating to social and environmental aspects.
we must not only focus on restoring growth, but also on ensuring its sustainability.
means should be developed to ensure that elements of sustainable tax discipline are accompanied by concrete proposals for growth and job creation.
member states must adopt measures to promote job creation, promote and support self-employment and start-ups, improve the business environment and facilitate access to finance for smes.
such practices are evidence of the importance of eib support to the business environment and to the economic recovery.
i welcome the major contribution that the eib has made in areas of action such as growth, the transition to a smarter, greener and more sustainable economy, innovation, the fight against climate change, employment and i share the rapporteur's view that we need even more involvement from the eib.
– mr president, as the rapporteur on the connecting europe facility (cef) i warmly welcome the forthcoming vote on the energy guidelines.
as we know, the energy guidelines are a crucial element of the cef and need to be launched without delay in order to make the most of the seven-year budget.
for a long time now we have acknowledged that the need for substantial investment in the european energy infrastructure is a precondition for the completion of the single european market.
in any case, with a 60% cut in the energy part of the cef we will have to rethink our priorities accordingly when allocating these funds.
the new regulation is a notable initiative, as it aims to unify and simplify the framework for financing trans-european energy infrastructure.
we are looking to ensure energy independence.
the drawing up of the lists of projects of common interest according to the contribution of each project to the implementation of energy corridors should take into account the member states whose territory is affected by the project.
the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) has an important role to play in electricity and gas projects, but i believe that acer should take into account the results of the analyses carried out by entso for electricity and gas.
the entso shall assist in market and network modelling, cost-benefit analysis of projects of common interest, taking into account the socio-economic benefits of energy infrastructure at regional level.
i would like to recall a few conditions which i consider to be a priority for the union's energy perspective.
first, energy regulations in the member states must take account of the provisions on the liberalisation of energy markets and aim, as a matter of priority, at removing the obstacles to the integration of energy markets.
we need to put more value on regional energy capacity.
a concrete example: in the western region of romania there are important geothermal energy resources, unused due to bureaucratic obstacles.
i call on the commission and the competent national authorities to jointly examine the possibility of overcoming the obstacles to investment in geothermal energy.
the development of own generation capacity and regional and cross-border transmission networks can ensure low energy consumption costs.
imported gas energy resources can be diversified both by continuing investment in the south european corridor and by creating the complementary lng tron in the black sea.
the draft resolution refers to the need to accelerate investments in biofuels from agricultural waste.
the benefits would not only be in the supply of energy but also in the revitalization of the agricultural sector, with this waste representing a real source of income for farmers.
the reform of the european agricultural policy, on which we will be voting for the first time on wednesday, also deals with the use of farm waste for energy production, which i consider to be particularly important.
i welcome the european union's firm stance that european energy policy must respond to the need to prevent the negative effects of climate change.
to prevent european firms' competitiveness from being damaged by the increased costs of this european energy policy, the european union must act with the same energy so that the world's major economies - china, india, russia, brazil - adopt policies in the same direction.
reducing greenhouse gas emissions is one of the main elements of the european initiative.
the union shall regularly monitor emissions and removals for those gases through its monitoring mechanism.
the development of climate change instruments should also be facilitated.
one such instrument is the greenhouse gas emission trading scheme.
after six years of romania's participation in the eu ets, the scheme covers almost 12 000 carbon dioxide-emitting installations.
it is an important step towards achieving the ambitious target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% by 2020.
in writing.
the european union has committed itself, in the eu 2020 strategy and through the energy and climate change legislative package, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% below 1990 levels by 2020. the establishment of common european rules on accounting, monitoring and reporting of land use, land use change and forestry will also be an important step towards achieving these objectives, and i support the rapporteur's position on the consideration of land use practices in the union's climate change policy.
by implementing these provisions, europe seeks to take into account the positive contribution of greenhouse gas storage in wood and wood products to the wider use of forests as a resource in a sustainable forest management framework, and to increase the use of wood products.
land use change is a potential major source of carbon emissions, but effective monitoring of this process can provide ways to adapt to and mitigate the effects of climate change.
farmers should be paid fairly for their work and their essential role in food production, and not waste their energy and time filling out forms.
the european union is committed to supporting developing countries in their efforts to adapt to and mitigate the effects of climate change.
a continuous evaluation mechanism is needed to verify the performance in reducing emissions.
by developing a comprehensive monitoring mechanism, we can improve international cooperation and encourage an effective global climate change policy without subjecting those working in agriculture to unnecessary additional effort.
the romanian government is currently working on a draft law to reduce the support scheme for the renewable energy industry.
in the context of today's debate in the european parliament on greenhouse gas emissions reductions, i strongly urge a prudent and balanced approach in the formulation of this proposal, given the impact that the formulation of the scheme to support investment in renewable energy may have on the energy system.
at the same time, the loss of competitiveness of romanian industry and the energy poverty of consumers must be counteracted.
the estimates show that in 2016-2017 final consumers could pay up to 30% more for energy.
the objective must therefore be to make green energy self-sustainable and to help the final consumer to benefit from green energy.
− one of the major challenges facing europe today is the provision of sustainable, competitive and secure energy.
despite recent progress, rising energy prices and dependence on imported energy, insufficient integration of the internal energy market, energy isolation of certain geographical areas and limited access to diversified energy sources still pose obstacles to a secure and competitive energy market.
the new regulation on guidelines for trans-european energy infrastructures proposes to accelerate the completion of the internal energy market and the achievement of eu energy policy objectives, in order to reduce emissions and combat climate change by modernising and interconnecting energy networks.
i believe this initiative is important in establishing a solid and ambitious framework for designing an energy policy adapted to our future needs.
− each eu member state has an energy mix that is determined by geographical, technological and energy policy conditions as well as national needs.
it consists of a core load sector, which is continuously fed by fossil, nuclear and hydroelectric resources and a part of renewable energy.
since the share of electricity from renewable sources could more than double between 2007 and 2020, i believe that it is no longer enough to think in national categories.
the construction and expansion of transnational networks is imperative to meet the growing demand for electricity, to promote market integration, to maintain the security of the networks, to transport electricity produced from renewable sources and to compensate for fluctuations.
it can also make an indispensable contribution to achieving energy efficiency objectives.
− trans-european energy infrastructure plays a key role in meeting the climate and energy policy objectives set by the commission.
i believe that this proposal will lead to the modernisation and development of crossborder energy networks within the eu, which are necessary to ensure the future and energy security of the continent and to be able to deal with new challenges in this field.
these challenges are associated with increasing demand for electricity, finding new ways to secure the transport of electricity produced by natural renewable processes and compensating for energy fluctuations.
increasing energy efficiency depends on overcoming these challenges.
− europe needs faster, more decisive and concerted action to ensure a global perspective and a considerable level of interdependence between member states on energy infrastructure.
better integration of the internal energy market, the removal of the energy isolation of certain geographical areas, better access to diversified energy sources are needed to ensure energy security and with tangible effects for consumers and businesses in terms of prices and sustainability.
− i voted in favour of this report because it is a key step in accelerating the completion of the internal market and in achieving the energy market and climate objectives.
the european energy policy sets clear targets for 2020: a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, a 20% share of energy from renewable sources in final energy consumption, a 20% increase in energy efficiency.
for the european market to provide energy in a sustainable, safe and secure way, we need to move beyond the false national context of 'self-sufficient' and 'independent' and create synergies.
− the european union must act as soon as possible to secure its energy future and protect its interests in this area.
to this end, the role of trans-european energy infrastructures is critical in ensuring that the energy targets set are achieved to the highest standards.
− i voted in favour of the report because the current environmental impact assessment (eia) directive is flawed and needs to be improved.
i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the land use sector needs to be gradually but effectively integrated into the union's climate policy.
the sector absorbs the equivalent of 9% of greenhouse gases emitted in other parts of the economy.
in line with the europe 2020 targets, my country has committed to reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020. romania also agreed to increase the share of renewable energy in the national energy mix to 24%.
− land and forest management can mitigate or exacerbate climate change.
while the eu's greenhouse gas emissions come mainly from energy production and other anthropogenic sources, some emissions are offset by the uptake of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere through photosynthesis and storage in trees and other plants, soil, biomass and timber.
in view of the above, i believe that there is a need for appropriate land use and management practices in forestry and agriculture that can lead to both the limitation of greenhouse gas emissions and the enhancement of removals from the atmosphere.
− i voted in favour of this proposal to include lulucf (land use, land use change and forestry) in the eu's climate policy.
accounting for emissions from lulucf is a key step in supporting the european union's efforts to mitigate the effects of climate change and to meet the targets set out in the europe 2020 strategy, as well as to meet commitments made to the international community under the kyoto protocol and the united nations framework convention on climate change.
the european union must 'lead by example' in tackling the effects of climate change, and this report can help to build such an example.
− the way we use land and forests is certainly contributing to climate change mitigation or exacerbation.
the application of appropriate land use and management practices in forestry and agriculture can help to limit greenhouse gas emissions and enhance removals.
therefore, the lulucf sector (land use, land use change and forestry) needs to be increasingly integrated into the european union's climate change policy.
the proposed accounting rules for lulucf cover a significant gap in greenhouse gas inventories at the level of the european union, thus strengthening the environmental integrity of the eu's climate change policy.
all economic sectors must contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
solid accounting standards for emissions and removals from lulucf activities are the first step towards achieving this objective.
rigorous and harmonised accounting within lulucf will certainly contribute to biodiversity conservation, soil protection and adaptation to climate change.
− tackling climate change is crucial for development, avoiding natural disasters and eradicating poverty.
that is why we need to increase monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions from land use, land use change and forestry.
in this respect, i support the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on accounting rules and action plans for greenhouse gas emissions and removals, because it is necessary for member states to account for emissions and also report them.
− i voted in favour of the report on accounting rules for land use, land use change and forestry (lulucf) because it is a coherent and necessary measure in efforts to make sustainable use of natural resources.
the achievement of the objectives set by the european union in the framework of the eu 2020 strategy and of energy and climate policy cannot be achieved without a robust system of accounting rules for emissions and removals from lulucf activities.
as parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc) and the kyoto protocol, member states and the european union have obligations to comply with the convention.
the report puts these obligations into practice and ensures that climate policy is consistent with existing eu legislation, namely the common agricultural policy (cap) and the renewable energy directive.
− tools to monitor the impact of climate change mitigation actions are a prerequisite for effective greenhouse gas emission reduction strategies.
the unequivocal identification of the environmental status at a given time can provide the directions for action that can lead to the achievement of the emission reduction targets set at national, european and international level.
i welcome the proposals to optimise and improve eu rules on reporting and monitoring of emissions, as they will strengthen the union's negotiating position in the international conferences concerned and reassert its role in the field of climate change.
− i voted in favour of this report to improve the existing legislation on the mechanism for reporting and monitoring greenhouse gases.
the proposed legislative changes will lead to more accurate data reporting, which means that a more accurate assessment of where member states are in achieving the barometers set and assumed by international climate change agreements will be possible.
− the challenges of climate change require ambitious targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
the union and the member states should endeavour to provide the most up-to-date information on greenhouse gas emissions, in particular in the context of the europe 2020 strategy.
the existing greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions monitoring and reporting system (gems) needs to be improved and updated to support the effective implementation of the european union's climate change policies.
the monitoring and reporting system shall ensure the transparency, accuracy, consistency, comparability and completeness of greenhouse gas inventories.
the european environment agency has an important role to play in developing and implementing coherent methodologies and in supporting member states in the transparent and accurate monitoring of actual and expected progress.
− i voted in favour of this report to reassure citizens that the european union is delivering on its commitments to combat pollution.
to this end, it is necessary to improve the existing mechanisms for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions.
rapid, reliable data and transparency in reporting greenhouse gas emissions are useful in the process of developing sound climate policies.
− member states need to improve the timeliness, transparency and comparability of their greenhouse gas emissions reporting.
this is a key condition for seeing that the union and its member states are on track to meet the proposed targets and to develop new sound policies to address climate challenges.
- i voted in favour of this report because it is an improved version of the current legislation on reporting and monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions.
the proposals aim to optimise and improve the legislative framework and ensure timely and reliable data on eu and member state developments in the timetable for achieving climate objectives.
i welcome the inclusion of the shipping sector in the eu's emissions reduction targets and, not least, the retention of the provisions in the old mechanism on the collection of data from smes and industry.
− i welcome the report by mr eickhout as it definitely brings us one step nearer towards achieving our targets and living up to the international commitments regarding climate change.
the european union and overseas countries can cooperate to promote decent work, in conditions of freedom, equality, security and human dignity, facilitating poverty reduction and contributing to sustainable development.
i support this report because the eu needs to be more actively involved in the sustainable, social and economic development of these countries, and also in combating climate change.
− ensuring high standards of drinking water quality has in recent years taken on an increasingly important role in eu policy-making, due to the close link between water, the environment and human health.
consistency of legislation in this area is essential to meet the challenges of water pollution, which is why i believe radionuclides should be treated like any other carcinogenic contaminant and therefore monitored accordingly.
the 'polluter pays' principle should also be introduced in the case of man-made pollution and the methods of controlling pollutants should also be strengthened.
alongside natural sources of radioactive contamination, massive human-made sources of radioactive water pollution have emerged over the last 60 years, from atmospheric and underwater nuclear testing to the systematic dumping of radioactive waste into seas and oceans, radioactive waters, and nuclear reactors with an expired life.
− ensuring safe drinking water for european citizens is a key concern of human health and environmental protection policies.
the authorities responsible for monitoring water must be as careful as possible in their controls, both to protect the environment and the health of the european consumer.
in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety we agreed to make this legislation more consistent with the objective of protecting public health, and therefore we decided that it is necessary to change the legal base from the euratom treaty to the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
− conserving the environment and promoting sustainable development, while taking into account the need for a healthy and competitive economy, are measures that underpin a union that looks to the best balance between the needs of people and the environment.
the report on optimising the benefits of eu environmental action underlines that member states must continue to implement eu environmental legislation properly and fully, as non- or incomplete application of existing rules is not only illegal but also costly for society in the long term.
i believe that ensuring a high level of environmental protection is one of the fundamental objectives of the union, which can bring benefits such as better living conditions through improved air quality, less noise and fewer health problems for european citizens.
i argue that we need high standards of information and transparency on environmental legislation so that citizens have a better understanding of eu environmental policy.
− i voted in favour of the report because one of the fundamental objectives of the union is to ensure a high level of environmental protection.
clear and coherent environmental legislation is needed.
i would like to stress the extremely important role that the european environment agency can play in monitoring the environmental information collected in different areas of the union.
i urge member states to take all necessary measures to conserve the environment and promote sustainable development.
− the european union has set itself an ambitious agenda for the transition to a robust, resource-efficient and low-carbon economy by 2050. to achieve this, we need clear, coherent and non-redundant environmental legislation, and commitment at all levels to its effective and timely implementation.
the environment is the area where most breaches of european law have been found in the eu, and existing legislation has often been transposed ineffectively, either through late or insufficient implementation or through 'over-application'.
there are many benefits to be gained from the proper implementation of eu environmental legislation and i therefore welcome the commission's concern to optimise the benefits of eu environmental action, to increase confidence by improving knowledge and to improve responsiveness.
the transposition of environmental legislation can be optimised by intensifying dialogue between all stakeholders with a view to disseminating best practice among member states, regional and local authorities, and by raising awareness and engaging public opinion in order to generate a higher level of acceptance and understanding of the objective of european union legislation.
− i believe that the union will only achieve the desired results in environmental protection through the timely and correct implementation of community legislation by the member states and by regional and local authorities.
− i support this report as it underlines very well the need for more effective implementation of the eu’s environment measures.
member states, respectively regional and local authorities are key actors in the development and transposition of eu environmental laws.
but in order to be able to talk about competitiveness, about support for agriculture for all member states, to be able to respond to the current challenges of food security and food security or climate change, we must support a convergence mechanism that better reflects the principle of fairness in the level of payments per hectare, to impose a fair and objective redesign, accepted by all member states, that allows the reduction of the discrepancies in direct payments at european level.
i also appreciate that the new cap promotes more sustainable farming and that organic farming enjoys more substantial support.
the cap reform will introduce new elements that will support and lead to the creation of a fairer, more sustainable and more open model of agriculture for the diversity of our rural areas.
such a reform should have proposed a sustainable system of distribution of mandates to each state.
there are hundreds of substances in our environment, but we have insufficient information about them.
we should not ignore the negative impact of these substances on biodiversity either.
i fully agree that timing is crucial to defining the next steps and, as he rightly said, the 7th environmental action programme is one area in which this discussion should go on.
we support a fair and competitive environment.
in conclusion, i believe that european unity in diversity and the new ecological civilization promoted by china have many common points which can strengthen our relations.
the commission is keen to improve the environment in which mutual societies develop and it is for this reason that it has funded a study on the current situation of mutual societies in europe.
i support this report in order to intensify efforts to strengthen health systems and combat hiv/aids, to ensure that the most vulnerable groups in society - women, children and people with disabilities - are included in the programming, implementation and evaluation of projects aimed at eradicating poverty, and to involve civil society and local and regional authorities more actively in identifying sustainable solutions to achieve the millennium development goals.
this is not a favourable environment for the development of the agricultural sector.
− to be able to talk about competitiveness, about support for agriculture for all member states, to be able to respond to the current challenges of food security and food security or climate change, we must demand a fair and objective redesign of the cap, accepted by all member states, which will reduce the existing discrepancies at european level.
in conclusion, it is essential to allocate adequate resources to the prosperity and sustainability of europe's agricultural and agri-food sectors.
sustainable rural development should be strengthened by promoting urban-rural relations and transregional cooperation.
i think that parliament has struck a good balance between measures to develop agriculture and food production on the one hand and environmental protection on the other, proving that the two aspects are not incompatible but the opposite.
i regret the rejection of amendment no 182, which would have allowed for a more judicious use of funds for environmental protection and the application of important community instruments.
the role of energy efficiency measures is critical in order to achieve the climate and energy targets set at the lowest cost.
i believe that in order to benefit from improved energy efficiency and to achieve energy savings, member states must accelerate the implementation of the energy efficiency directive, continue building renovation actions to reduce energy consumption and adapt their national programmes so as to develop new, smart and flexible infrastructures, in particular smart grids, which allow the provision of energy reserves.
by using eu funds wisely for the next 2014-2020 programming period, we will be able to reach the 20% energy efficiency target by 2014. in addition, reducing consumption through energy efficiency is the most sustainable way to reduce dependence on fossil fuels and will thus generate a significant reduction in imports, by about 25%.
i voted in favour of the report because, in ensuring the transition to a low-carbon economy, natural gas plays a very important role.
in the years ahead, shale gas may be the best solution both for reducing carbon emissions and for ensuring energy independence.
− to achieve the target of reducing emissions by more than 80% by 2050, europe's energy production will need to be characterised by near-zero carbon emissions.
this must be done without disrupting energy resources and competitiveness.
the scenarios proposed are not deterministic but rather serve as a basis for a constructive dialogue on how to transform the european energy system in order to meet the eu's long-term target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. to achieve this, i believe that new infrastructures are needed, in particular smart grids, which allow for flexible reserves and balanced energy capacity, and a fully integrated network at european level, containing all the eu's energy resources.
energy infrastructure requires long-term investment, so the eu needs a long-term strategy.
long-term planning of energy policies is necessary to ensure the union's greatest possible energy independence and the most sustainable and diversified energy production.
energy independence and security of all member states is essential if they are to avoid future energy supply cuts due to international conflicts similar to the past russian-ukrainian disputes, which affected gas supplies to romania and other central and eastern european member states.
another important aspect is investment in research and innovation to secure new ways of producing energy in the long term.
− i voted for the energy outlook 2050 because it serves as a basis for constructive dialogue on the definition of an ambitious and stable 2030 policy framework.
the european union today operates in a global context and therefore we need pan-european governance to ensure that we move towards a model of energy interdependence between member states.
through the initiatives and tools made available, member states can continue to work together towards the rapid completion of the internal energy market by continuing to invest in super- and smart grid infrastructure and implementing policies to optimise the cost-effectiveness of the expansion of renewable energy sources with a view to creating economies of scale in renewable energy activities.
i support the inclusion of the social dimension in the energy perspective through initiatives that combat energy scarcity and take into account the need to protect consumers against high energy prices and businesses against unfair competition.
− i voted in favour of the report on 'energy outlook 2050: an energy future', because we need to ensure fair and universal access to a sustainable energy supply for all european citizens.
europe can meet its energy, climate change and economic targets while also helping to boost its economic recovery through energy efficiency.
the transition to a more energy-efficient economy would accelerate the diffusion of technologically innovative solutions and improve the competitiveness of industry in the union, thereby stimulating economic growth and job creation in energy efficiency-related sectors.
it is very important to support small renewable energy producers, and i mean including local and regional authorities, to facilitate their integration into the grid.
in this regard, regional and local authorities should continue to benefit from simplified access to financing from the european investment bank's sustainable energy funds.
last but not least, i believe that member states should support local and regional authorities to develop renewable energy action plans to inform the general public about the benefits of using renewable energy.
- i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution and welcome the reference to the need to accelerate investment in biofuels from agricultural waste.
the european commission has published a report on the implementation of the eu's waste management strategy.
moreover, in the context of ensuring energy independence, my country is seeking to further develop its civil nuclear programme for the construction of other reactors, but in this period of crisis, funding sources are limited.
through responsible exploitation, nuclear energy remains one of the cleanest sources of energy and can contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives.
member states must maintain their commitments made at eu level in the field of nuclear energy.
nuclear energy has its role in the energy mix to achieve energy security and climate change objectives and to ensure an affordable electricity price for the final consumer.
romania supports the development of low-carbon energy sources, of which nuclear energy is an important component.
public information must be an ongoing, coordinated and transparent process in order to gain and maintain public confidence in nuclear energy and in the authorities managing nuclear activities.
− endocrine disruptors are increasingly recognised as a major challenge to human health and the environment.
the precautionary principle requires that, in this context of scientific uncertainty, we take appropriate measures to avoid or reduce potentially serious or irreversible consequences for human health and the environment by introducing and maintaining research programmes on the effects of these endocrine disruptors.
− i voted in favour of the report on the integration of migrants, its effects on the labour market and the external dimension of social security coordination, considering that it is very important for member states to develop and share best practices for promoting diversity in the workplace, especially by supporting start-ups, as they can bring about sustainable economic growth by creating new jobs.
using the right working capital will boost the european business environment and lessen the burden of social security schemes on our national budgets.
increasing expenditure on healthcare and pensions could have significant consequences for the sustainability and coverage of current social protection schemes, which could lead member states to reduce the level of compulsory social protection contributions and to shift social security burdens to the private sector.
mutual societies must play an important role in sustainable health through proactive prevention policies.
the social economy, and in particular mutual societies, play a key role in the union economy, combining profitability with solidarity, creating quality jobs, strengthening social, economic and territorial cohesion, generating social capital, promoting active citizenship, social welfare based on solidarity and a type of economy based on democratic values, which puts people first and supports sustainable development and social, technological and environmental innovation.
the eu is also committed to the development of a comprehensive and effective policy on the environment, with a view to promoting sustainable development and sustainable development.
but as it has developed, so has its impact on the environment.
the overuse of pesticides and insecticides has negative effects, leading to soil degradation and water pollution.
nowhere, ever, has violence been the solution, and the european union has a duty to be firm in its efforts to establish a climate of peace, so necessary to the objective and politically unmotivated act of justice.
question submitted under the 'blue card' procedure i consider that arbitrary intervention on the carbon market at union level can have a negative impact on both the market and european industry.
moreover, the main cause of the reduction in carbon emissions by more than 10% since the start of the second trading period in 2008 was not the price of carbon but the decrease in industrial activity due to the economic crisis.
i do not support, as you do, the delay in the timing of the auctioning of emission allowances and i would like to ask you if you are aware that in the report on the state of the internal carbon market in 2012, the commission has already proposed the option of permanently withdrawing a number of allowances during the third period?
the priority must therefore be to adopt a set of measures that have the potential to address the long-term structural problems of the carbon market.
what guarantees are there that the investments needed to make european industry eco-efficient will be made, regardless of the price of carbon dioxide per tonne, which has fallen from eur 20 per tonne in 2008 to around eur 4 per tonne in 2012?
now, the price per ton of carbon dioxide is low.
the commission has also tried to set an arbitrary price of eur 30 per tonne of carbon dioxide in the energy taxation directive.
the union needs both an ambitious environmental policy and the competitiveness of european industry and, above all, the preservation of jobs within the european union.
the current price of emissions, although low, reflects the reality of the market, so i see no need for artificial intervention by the authorities.
secondly, delaying the placing of emission allowances on the market would inevitably lead to higher energy prices.
in my view, this is not acceptable in the context of the current crisis and given that the liberalisation of the energy market has already led to higher energy costs for final consumers.
i fully agree with the goal of reducing carbon emissions, but i don't think it should be achieved at any cost.
the proposed 'end-of-period concentration' of greenhouse gas emission allowances to be traded in 2013-2020 is challenged by businesses and experts as both inefficient and likely to keep energy prices high.
the measure would also distort the european union's emissions trading system, which is a functioning system and has an interesting potential in achieving the proposed reductions in carbon dioxide emissions.
the decline in the price of carbon is an effect of the economic crisis.
i think that a comparative analysis of the impact of the reduction of emissions in europe on the total volume of emissions in the world is needed and how much europe can advance in this area without jeopardising the future of its own industry.
between 1990 and 2006, carbon dioxide emissions from aviation almost doubled, accounting for about 3% of total greenhouse gas emissions.
this number is continuing to rise and is projected to increase by 63% by 2020. but effective global warming management can only be achieved on an international basis.
we need to make sure that the same climate targets are being considered globally and that carbon emissions do not ignore national borders.
we must not forget that our commitment is to reduce our emissions by 20% compared with 1990 levels.
that is why i think it is important that aviation, which is part of the eu ets, also plays its part in the fight against climate change.
two thirds of emissions are caused by intercontinental flights, but only one third of these are caused by flights from the eu.
the problems caused by aviation emissions can only be effectively managed by a global obligation to comply with the same measures or to achieve the same objectives through different measures.
that is why i personally support the idea of renewing the mandate of the agency, which, along with offering the opportunity to adjust it to the inevitably changing environment, offers the possibility to thoroughly discuss its activity.
the utility of the agency is unquestionable, as it is the need for it to keep up with the evolving environment.
they are a powerful driver of sustainable economic growth, entrepreneurship and technology transfer, and job creation, and are thus essential for development.
agriculture is demonized for pollution, it's demonized for its effects on developing countries, it's demonized for producing too much biofuel, or, conversely, not producing enough.
this justifies an enhanced role and tasks for enisa and its critical position in defending the european digital ecosystem.
however, in order to face the new challenges of the cyber environment, a reform is needed that will allow the agency to take on a more important role in combating cybercrime, but also to be able to cooperate more closely with member states on data protection and citizens' privacy issues.
whales face various threats, such as habitat degradation, ship collisions, and underwater noise pollution.
the establishment of the partnership will lead to a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources, to the benefit of both parties.
last but not least, i believe that aid for the conservation and management of natural resources will contribute to the sustainable development of the sector.
the general objective is to enhance cooperation between the european union and the republic of mauritius with a view to establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the mauritian fishing zone, in the interest of both parties.
for the european union, the conclusion of the new fisheries partnership agreement and the new protocol will contribute to the viability of european industries by providing eu vessels and the sectors of activity that depend on them with a stable legal environment and predictability in the medium term.
- i voted against the change in the calendar because if the emission certificates had been withdrawn from the market, it could have led to an increase in the price of energy throughout europe for both household and industrial consumers.
the ets was designed as a market instrument to cap and progressively reduce co2 emissions by allowing participants in the scheme to trade in allowances.
intervention in the market to stop the decline in the carbon price caused by the excess supply is contrary to the principles of the functioning of the market.
delaying the trading of ets allowances will inevitably result in an increase in energy prices.
the carbon market is functioning, and the price is only reflecting the severe economic and financial crisis of the last few years.
the economic recovery will drive up the price of carbon without the need for the european commission to intervene.
the proposed 'end-of-period concentration' of greenhouse gas emission allowances to be traded in 2013-2020 could result in the european union losing investments and jobs.
− the european commission considers that the proper functioning of the european carbon market, which is in transition to phase three, will be increasingly affected by the increase in net supply combined with the decline in demand.
i am against arbitrary and unpredictable interventions in the carbon market because i believe that they can negatively affect both the carbon market and the industry.
also, artificially increasing the price of carbon will cause electricity prices to rise, carbon dioxide emissions to shift and unemployment to rise.
i therefore voted for amendment no 20 by which the european parliament rejects the commission's proposal to amend directive 2003/87/ec by clarifying the provisions on the timing of greenhouse gas emission allowance auctions.
i strongly support the rapporteur's amendments which provide legal clarity to this decision and send a positive signal to international partners that the european union does not want the legislation in force to stand in the way of a global agreement, but at the same time stress that if the desired result is not achieved, the union will return to applying its own rules on greenhouse gas emission trading and for the aviation sector.
the european union must reaffirm its leadership on climate change and, through the negotiations in the international civil aviation organisation, make every effort to make the signing of a global agreement a reality within the one year period available to it.
i voted in favour of the report because global warming can only be effectively tackled through an international effort, as carbon emissions do not remain within national borders.
even though aviation currently generates around 3% of total greenhouse gas emissions, its level is increasing rapidly and the inclusion of the sector in the emissions trading system has only created a uniform framework for all transport sectors.
i believe that in the absence of such a decision, competition in the aviation sector would be distorted, with potentially serious consequences for airlines in the union, and that the best solution is to conclude an international agreement to regulate aviation emissions in a transparent and uniform manner.
− the aviation sector is strongly international in nature and therefore global aviation emissions problems can only be effectively managed through an international approach.
the european union wants an international agreement and is open to negotiating the best forms of market measures to address aviation emissions in a similar way to addressing emissions from other sectors.
− i support this report because it is very important, in the context of the amplification of climate change, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from airlines.
although the aviation sector has been included in the union's greenhouse gas emission trading scheme (eu-ets) since 2008, it has benefited from preferential treatment over other industries and modes of transport when it comes to reducing emissions.
unfortunately, we are currently seeing an alarming increase in emissions from air travel (especially intercontinental flights).
the european union, together with the international civil aviation organisation (icao), must take the necessary measures to put an end to this uncontrolled increase in gas emissions, which is exacerbating climate problems and increasing the use of fossil fuels.
− welcomes the rapporteur's proposal to use the proceeds of the auctioning of allowances or any other equivalent amount to finance contributions to the global fund for energy efficiency and renewable energy and the green climate fund under the unfccc to finance measures to prevent deforestation and facilitate adaptation to the effects of climate change in developing countries.
those measures can contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and adaptation to the effects of climate change in the european union and third countries, to the financing of research and development to mitigate and adapt to those effects, and to the costs of managing the eu ets.
− i voted in favour of temporarily and exceptionally suspending intercontinental flights from the eu ets emissions trading scheme applied to the aviation sector to stimulate progress in international negotiations on the development of a global market measure to combat aviation emissions.
the global problems caused by aviation emissions can only be effectively addressed at international level, through a set of rules and obligations to be respected by each actor individually, in order to avoid distorting competition or slowing down efforts to combat climate change.
the international civil aviation organization (icao) is tasked with regulating emissions, developing an effective global system to reduce the increasing levels of emissions generated by the aviation sector.
the suspension of the application of the ets to intercontinental flights will not affect the level of ambition in terms of environmental protection, but will ensure that aviation industry participants are subject to the same set of rules until the ets is developed.
− i supported this proposal to allow more – although strictly limited – time for international discussions on co2 emissions from aircraft to be completed.
the eu is again driving the international debate on climate policy and bringing our international partners to the negotiating table so all parties can agree on a fair and effective solution.
- i voted in favour of the report on the greenhouse gas emission trading scheme.
global warming can only be effectively addressed through an international approach.
the union decided in 2008 to include aviation in its emissions trading scheme (ets) from 2012. the court of justice confirmed in 2011 that the inclusion in the ets of emissions from third country aircraft departing from or arriving at community airports is legally admissible.
in november 2012, icao made significant progress on market measures to address emissions from international aviation.
if no satisfactory international agreement is reached to address aviation emissions, all international flights will be included again from 2013. we stress that parliament should be able to assess the outcome of the icao negotiations before further measures are proposed by the european commission.
overcoming the effects of the financial crisis depends crucially on the stability and sustainability of credit institutions and investment firms.
harmonising european regulations can lead to increased transparency and accountability in the financial system, thus establishing the conditions for sustainable growth and development.
i support the idea of encouraging small-scale banking through credit unions and mutual funds, as such structures allow for more effective supervision and prudent management and can lead to the formation of a sustainable and diversified banking culture.
only by harmonising the provisions in this area can we create the conditions for sustainable economic development.
while it is important to establish global guidelines on the sustainability of financial systems, it is important that the regulatory process does not place european economic actors at a disadvantage.
i also believe that the proposed amendments ensure the development of a sustainable fisheries sector at continental level.
however, opening up to trade alone is not enough to achieve sustainable development.
development must be supported by other means than just humanitarian aid, and trade is an effective way to support sustainable growth for the very poorest countries.
− i voted in favour of the report on advancing development through trade as i think that both the eu's trade and aid policies should contribute to stimulating sustainable and inclusive growth in developing countries.
also, eu-based companies that register their production in developing countries must respect human rights and freedoms, social and environmental standards, gender equality, basic labour standards and, in particular, the prohibition of child labour.
fair trade between the european union and developing countries must be based on full compliance with and guaranteeing ilo labour standards and working conditions and must ensure the application of the highest possible social and environmental standards.
a modern trade policy is needed that supports and promotes sustainable development and can ensure non-inflationary growth; moreover, the protection of environmental resources, the promotion of social equality and the protection of intellectual property rights must remain a priority.
in order to improve the investment climate, i support the adoption of domestic reforms that promote international labour and environmental standards, reduce transport costs and lead to increased agricultural and industrial productivity.
aid through trade is a good way to ensure inclusive and sustainable development for the least developed countries.
− i believe that self-employed farmers and small cooperatives in developing countries should be supported to develop sustainable farming, fishing and breeding practices that enable them to create, strengthen and diversify supply chains, to improve their access to finance and microfinance, and to gain access to information to align with international sanitary and phytosanitary standards.
− i voted for the report on trade and investment-driven growth for developing countries because i believe that the eu should have a coherent approach to trade and investment in order to achieve tangible results for sustainable growth in developing countries.
- i voted in favour of the report and particularly welcome the references to agriculture as a driver of economic and sustainable growth and development.
they also support measures to encourage the importation into the eu of agricultural products that meet the required environmental standards.
trade and investment between the european union, developing countries and least developed countries are means of stimulating sustainable and inclusive growth for all, enabling technology and skills transfers and contributing to job creation, enabling increased competitiveness and productivity, as well as achieving greater social cohesion and tackling inequality.
we believe that when used as drivers of growth and sustainable economic development, trade and investment should pursue specific objectives in agriculture, industry, services and administration, while developing the production and infrastructure that they require.
as regards the discharge to the european commission, i consider that the error rate on payments, identified at 3,9% by reference to the total budget, especially in the area of rural development policies ( 7% and regional policy, energy and transport ( 6%), as well as the shortcomings in the control system, remain major problems that need to be addressed quickly.
mr president, i support the decision of the committee on budgetary control to postpone their decision on discharge for the executive director of the european environment agency.
i voted in favour of amendment no 1, which calls on the commission to provide an assessment of the sustainability of union-funded projects in haiti based on a five-year perspective and to report to the discharge authorities on an annual basis.
the overall impact of the union's development policy is determined by policies in the fields of agriculture, fisheries, energy and trade.
i believe that education plays a vital role in the development process, because it provides a perspective for the sustainability of aid efforts, and without education, even the best and most thoughtful technical policies will fail.
we draw attention to the obligation to publish data on energy consumption and the share of renewable energy.
mr president, i voted for granting discharge to the executive director of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2011. however, there are some shortcomings in the budgetary and financial management of the agency and they have been reported.
− i voted in favour of the report because, according to the court of auditors, it has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2011 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
− i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2011. this decision gives the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011. the agency moved from brussels to its seat in ljubljana, slovenia, on 1 february 2011. it officially started its activity on 3 march 2011 and obtained financial autonomy on 8 march 2011. the general budget of the agency for the financial year 2011 was eur 4 792 345. on the basis of the annual accounts, the rate of commitment of loans was 67%, while the rate of use of payment loans was 74% of the total loans managed.
the agency was supported from the union budget by the commission (dg environment) with a sum of only eur 500 000, contractual compensation for carrying out preparatory work for the new regulation (eu) no 528/2012 on biocidal products (7).
mr president, i voted to postpone the discharge of the european environment agency and i really regret that the majority voted to grant discharge.
there is currently an olaf investigation under way into the procurement procedures for some contracts for the european environment agency and this is, of course, related to the executive director of the agency.
i want to end by saying that i have nothing against the environment.
i fight for a clean environment and, once again, i have nothing against the agency itself.
− i voted in favour of the report as it found the transactions underlying the annual accounts of the european environment agency (eea) for the financial year 2011 to be legal and regular in all material respects.
− i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution containing the observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2011. the management board and the agency's administration have strengthened its conflict of interest policy in order to avoid any problems in the future.
we welcome the new procedures approved on 12 december 2012 by the agency's management board at its 65th meeting, with particular reference to: the conflict of interest training provided for in the training programme for new staff, the obligation to sign the form 'obligations of officials and other servants of the european environment agency under the staff regulations of officials and the conditions of employment of other servants'.
− i support the rapporteur's proposal that the commission should examine the possibility of new long-term sustainable funding for the authority, precisely to ensure its independence and to enable it to exercise its powers as a european authority.
we call on the european commission to examine all options for new long-term sustainable funding for the authority, ensuring its independence in the context of the commission's forthcoming review of the agencies' financial mechanisms and activities, to be presented by 2 january 2014 at the latest.
the agency has established a set of guidelines and procedures for the management of its marine pollution response assets.
parliament also urged the commission to submit a proposal for multiannual funding of the agency's work in response to marine pollution.
i believe that cuts should be made to the 2014 budget of the european parliament in a number of areas: €1.25 million for the provision of space, €1 million for the expenditure on publications in the official journal of the european union, €0.5 million for energy consumption and others.
in this context, clear objectives and precise guidelines are needed in the elaboration and evaluation of the macroeconomic adjustment programme, in particular with regard to the procedural and policy requirements aimed at restoring a sustainable balance of payments and restoring the capacity of the state to fully fund itself on the financial markets.
the expansionary policies of this institution did not have the expected effects in terms of credit growth, but on the contrary, loans to the private sector halved, from 2,4% in 2010 to 1,2% in 2011. as a lack of credit is one of the main reasons for the slowdown in the european economy, i call on both the european central bank and the commission to focus their efforts in the future on promoting reforms to improve access to finance, strengthen global competitiveness and, by implication, generate sustainable economic growth.
− i voted in favour of the report because the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a 'research agenda' for the development of key technologies for integrated information systems in different application sectors, with the aim of strengthening european competitiveness and sustainability and facilitating the emergence of new markets and applications in society.
mr president, iter and the development of fusion energy also received discharge for the financial year 2011. i welcome the fact that the joint undertaking’s governing board decided to broadly accept the court of auditors’ opinion no 4/2008.
− i voted in favour of the report because the european court of auditors has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2011 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
− i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2011. the parliament underlines that the joint undertaking needs to make further efforts to maximise competition, as the number of tenders received in the public procurement procedures signed in 2011 for operational activities remained low and averaged two tenders, and as regards grants, the average number of proposals received was only one per call for proposals.
in the energy field, further efforts are needed, in particular to complete legislative alignment in the field of the internal energy market and to ensure the development of a competitive gas and electricity market.
croatia also has to meet the 2020 requirements for the promotion of energy efficiency and renewable energy.
amid global warming and the melting of the ice cap, large reserves of hydrocarbons have been discovered, which arouse the interest of several countries.
the main objective for a coherent strategy should be to promote the rational and sustainable use of arctic resources.
particular attention will thus have to be paid to environmental protection.
the energy resources found in the arctic ocean must be exploited in a responsible way that does not affect the ecosystems of the region.
moreover, i think that it is relevant to dissociate visa policy from political climate, because the citizens are the first and foremost to be impacted by such policy.
i condemn the brutal repression of social protests in many countries, especially in north africa and the middle east, and the increasing number of breaches of human rights and call on the governments to enforce a climate supporting the rule of law and the human rights.
it is important that the eu supports and adopts the international goal of universal access to energy by 2030 as this will contribute to increasing economic power and social benefits for the poorest and most vulnerable people in developing countries.
- i voted in favour of the report because the dismantling of ships outside the oecd has a significant impact on the environment and health.
any ship taken out of the european union for dismantling is a hazardous waste and therefore cannot be legally dismantled at present except within the oecd.
most final owners try to maximise their profits by selling their vessel to facilities that do not meet the standards of protection of workers and the environment, and thus can offer the highest price.
− every year, around 1 000 end-of-life ships are broken and recycled using the ‘beaching’ dismantling methodology, most of them in south asia under dangerous conditions and with little or no standards for the protection of workers, human health or the environment.
i urge a clear stance on this concern by fully implementing the export ban of hazardous waste also for waste ships, an inventory of hazardous materials for all ships calling at eu ports and the creation of a financial mechanism to support environmentally sound ship recycling.
the purpose of this regulation is to prevent, minimise and, as far as possible, eliminate accidents, injuries and other adverse effects on human health and the environment caused by the recycling and treatment of eu ships.
this regulation also aims to reduce disparities between operators in the union, oecd countries and third countries concerned as regards occupational health and safety and environmental standards.
i voted for the creation of a financial mechanism (recycling fund) applicable to all ships entering eu ports, regardless of their flag, to ensure that the environmentally friendly treatment of ships containing hazardous waste is competitive with substandard operations.
this can prevent the release of hazardous substances into the environment, facilitate ship recycling and avoid the disposal of hazardous waste.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
we believe that special emphasis should be placed on the social and environmental dimensions of economic modernisation and we encourage croatia to continue to strengthen social dialogue and to defend social and trade union rights.
in the context of the european union's efforts to achieve energy independence, turkey can play a pivotal role through its strategic position.
the eu and turkey are economically interdependent, with trade between the two partners amounting to eur 120 billion in 2011. we welcome the decision to step up eu-turkey cooperation on a whole range of important energy issues.
in view of turkey's strategic role and its considerable renewable resources, a first process of analysis on the importance of opening negotiations under chapter 15 on energy should be launched with a view to deepening the eu-turkey strategic energy dialogue.
we stress the need to step up strategic cooperation on energy corridors to the eu.
both enhanced eu-turkey cooperation in the field of energy and possible chapter 15 negotiations should encourage the development of the potential of renewable energy and cross-border electricity transmission infrastructure.
we encourage the kosovo authorities to step up their efforts to tackle the high unemployment and poverty in the country through further economic reforms and improving the investment climate.
the european union has set itself the objective of increasing the share of energy from renewable sources in total european energy production, but this requires better implementation of cooperation mechanisms between member states to promote the use of energy from renewable sources and to address shortcomings in cross-border electricity trade.
on the other hand, the persistence of regulated retail prices will allow consumers to decide on the choice of supplier, because in the end the biggest beneficiaries of the completion of the internal energy market are consumers.
in addition, competition should also be extended to renewable energy sources, as this is the best incentive for innovation and cost reduction, thus preventing the spread of energy poverty, which is why member states should make greater use of cooperation mechanisms and also increase communication between them to build additional infrastructure where appropriate.
developing renewable energy infrastructure and attracting investment for sustainable energy production are major challenges that we need to address with smart solutions.
the achievement of sustainable energy objectives requires the uniform application of internal energy market legislation to remove energy bottlenecks and extend interconnections.
the eu has significant untapped renewable energy resources.
they can contribute to increasing energy independence at local and regional level.
local and isolated communities are the main beneficiaries of sustainable energy potential.
i consider the development of mixed energy infrastructures to meet electricity and heat demands to be a priority.
for example, in the western region of romania, where i come from, the exploitation of geothermal energy could supplement the energy needs of local communities.
the attraction of smes in the field of renewable energy would help to create investment partnerships and would constitute a potential for job creation.
the commission should take into account that global markets offer opportunities for the efficient exploitation of renewable energy resources.
i would like to stress the need to strike a balance between european policies to promote renewable energy and the need to maintain the competitiveness of european union industries in particular the metal, chemical, heavy equipment and machinery industries.
these energy-intensive industries are competing with industries in countries that do not place equal emphasis on climate action.
the european union must maintain its leadership in promoting renewable energy, but also take account of the progress made by large energy-consuming countries such as russia, china and others and adjust its own policies accordingly.
i would like to welcome the commission's initiative to launch a public debate on climate change in southern and eastern europe.
i regret that romania, the country i represent, was not included in this public debate, given that it is extremely exposed to the consequences of climate change.
the commission is currently working on revising part of the legislation concerning both the environmental impact of industrial projects and dangerous substances.
the european council of 22-23 may 2013 will focus on energy and taxation in the eu.
as regards energy, i would stress that eu energy policy must ensure security of supply to households and businesses at affordable and competitive prices and protect vulnerable consumers in particular.
in full respect of national choices on the energy mix, the eu needs to ensure the development of interconnections to end any form of member states' isolation from electricity and gas networks by 2014. i therefore believe that significant investment in new, smart energy infrastructure is needed in the eu to ensure affordable energy supply.
i also believe that implementing the energy performance of buildings directive and promoting energy efficiency measures and programmes at all levels will help to increase the eu's energy security and lower the public's utility bills.
i share the view that one of the main objectives of the directive is to ensure a fair environment for public procurement, which improves the proper functioning of the corporate control market.
the european commission must do all it can to reverse the decline in industry in the european union and bring it down from the current level of 16% of gdp to 20% by 2020. of course, sustainable growth can only be achieved by paying due attention to environmental factors, which is why i believe that regional strategies in this area should include measures to protect soil, water, air and biodiversity as a central element.
the report identifies the regions where the need for funding is most acute and sets out regional strategies, drawing on the various instruments of cohesion policy to address the economic, social and environmental challenges in the region.
the european union now has the opportunity to take a leading role in the safety of oil and gas operations worldwide and thus must step up the international promotion of high safety standards, which will lead to environmental protection and to the reduction of economic losses and damage resulting from accidents.
both offshore and onshore extraction activities must comply with environmental standards.
the natural gas reserves of the black sea and shale gas could provide energy independence for my country, but also lower costs for the population.
if exploitable resources are found, production could begin within a few years, subject to strict environmental conditions.
− the 2010 deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico and, more recently, the elgin oil and gas leak in the north sea, have brought into focus the need to review policies related to the safety of offshore oil and gas installations and to ensure the protection of the eu's marine environment in the event of major accidents.
the report contains concrete measures to eliminate the fragmentation and general disparities between member states' practices and legislation in this area and to guarantee the necessary safety and environmental standards throughout the union.
i believe that the basic principle of eu environmental law, namely that the polluter pays, must be respected by all operators when they establish the financial guarantees necessary to cover the costs of clean-up and compensation in the event of major accidents.
the high standards of action to limit environmental and human health damage set out in this report should be promoted internationally and in relevant global and regional forums, and mechanisms to ensure the effective application of these standards should be further examined.
- the tragic accident three years ago, with its loss of life and damage to property and the environment, is a wake-up call to everyone.
it is clear that drastic measures must be taken to prevent this kind of situation, both in terms of safety at work and environmental protection.
one of the important elements of the report is that it proposes a clear distinction between the authorities responsible for assessing the safety and environmental risks of these operations and those responsible for issuing drilling permits.
− offshore oil and gas operations have recently been operating in increasingly difficult environments and conditions, with a high risk of accidents with devastating and irreversible consequences for the marine and coastal environment, as well as significant negative effects on coastal economies.
the new proposal for a regulation is therefore a key instrument for ensuring the highest safety and environmental standards throughout the european union.
in accordance with the international and european union legislation in force in this field, particular emphasis should be placed on strengthening the participation of citizens in informing the general public about major accidents and the measures taken to prevent and limit damage to the environment and human health.
particular attention should also be paid to ensuring the protection of the arctic environment, a marine environment of unique and exceptional importance for the european union and a key player in climate change mitigation.
first, the authorities responsible for assessing the safety and environmental risks of the operations must be independent of those responsible for issuing drilling permits.
i voted for the implementation of best practice in the regulation of offshore oil and gas activities in all eu member states and for strengthening the capacity to respond to emergencies that may affect eu citizens, the economy or the environment.
the european parliament has strengthened the rules on obtaining operating licences and imposed strict requirements on companies applying for licences, requiring them to prove, before commencing operations, their financial capacity to cover potential environmental and economic damage.
there are studies showing that a boost to energy development at european level could generate around three million jobs by 2030. given the importance of this sector, i believe that a european support scheme for renewable energy sources should take into account the establishment of a pan-european fund to support renewable energy, co-financing from the cohesion policy and the european investment bank's financing instruments for the implementation of renewable energy installations and, last but not least, harmonisation of renewable energy support schemes at european level.
the european union is on track to achieve its target of a 20% share of renewable energy sources in the energy mix by 2020. the scenarios presented by the commission in the energy roadmap 2050 assume a share of 30% by 2030 and at least 55% by 2050. these would ensure predictability for companies and individual consumers and would ensure a high level of competitiveness for the eu’s industry and agriculture.
therefore it is time to complete the internal energy market and facilitate the progressive integration of renewable energy sources.
increasing the share of energy from renewable sources is already an established trend at the european union level, which has set itself this ambitious target in the europe 2020 strategy.
it is important, however, that the union pursue this policy not only to achieve much-needed energy independence and security, but also to set an international example in the context of the growing relevance of combating the effects of climate change.
however, national and european decision-makers must consider harnessing the full renewable energy potential of the union.
i voted for this report because, unfortunately for romanian consumers, energy costs will double as a result of price liberalisation.
the development of renewable sources could mitigate the impact of liberalisation, but the romanian authorities seem to have other priorities.
such actions, beyond being in breach of competition rules, are an obstacle to the promotion of renewable energy sources.
according to some studies, dobrogea has the second largest wind energy potential in the entire european union.
− i supported this report because renewable energy in the european energy mix is growing in the short, medium and long term, and also contributes significantly to a secure, independent, diversified and low-emission energy supply, thus reducing air pollution, waste and water use, and other risks associated with electricity production.
i believe that the european potential for renewable energy supply has not yet been fully exploited.
energy policy must at all times strike a balance between security of supply, competitiveness and economic viability.
in terms of international cooperation and trade, global renewable energy markets are growing, with positive effects on european industry and job creation.
i also believe that the eu should develop close scientific cooperation and a clear policy on collaborative research and innovation in the field of renewable energy sources with international partners, in particular the brics countries.
last but not least, sustainable hydropower in all its forms must be supported as it contributes to a renewable energy future and fulfils other valuable functions in addition to energy production.
− improving cross-border connections between member states' electricity networks will be beneficial for promoting the use of energy from renewable sources, for eliminating shortcomings in cross-border electricity trade, and for proper regulation of retail prices.
given that the main beneficiaries of the completion of the internal energy market are consumers, i support maintaining this regulation, because this will allow consumers to decide on the choice of supplier, and fair competition for renewable energy sources will be the best incentive for innovation and cost reduction, thus preventing the spread of energy poverty.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on renewable energy in the internal european energy market.
from 2020, renewable energy sources must be an integral part of the eu energy market.
for 2050, the eu is targeting a renewable energy share of at least 30% in 2030. however, the binding targets for the period after 2020 need to be subject to a clear assessment.
the report calls for greater convergence and a more appropriate, integrated european system for supporting renewable energy for the period after 2020. for the future of electricity from renewable sources, an integrated and interconnected grid at european level is also needed.
therefore, as early as 2014, the eu must have a functioning internal energy market, as this is crucial for the future integration of renewable energy.
the european commission must develop pathways for member states to make more efficient use of these mechanisms, to cooperate and to coordinate cross-border energy flows.
− no one can deny that there are some negative effects on food production from energy crops.
without neglecting the importance of the subject, which must be treated with great caution, the eu needs to have predictable and coherent energy crop policies, without which the system will not continue to develop, especially given the high costs associated with establishing many types of such crops.
i very much welcome the call to member states to guarantee that funding of public service media should be sustainable, proportionate and stable, and to prevent dominant positions which impede pluralism.
while retaining the responsibilities of the member states and the social partners, i believe that we need to create appropriate, safe and sustainable systems.
− while pension systems are a matter for member states, the european union has committed itself, through the eu 2020 strategy, to making adequate, sustainable and secure pensions available to citizens.
- i voted in favour of this report because of the following considerations: i believe it is extremely important, especially in the current context of the economic crisis, to recognise the role of smes as the main source of new sustainable jobs and, consequently, as factors that can drive economic growth in the eu.
i welcome the fact that many member states have already started to implement or implement major programmes in the framework of pension reform, programmes that take into account the sustainability and adequacy of those systems.
the european agenda for adequate, safe and sustainable pensions is an excellent starting point for debates leading to a fair solution and a decent standard of living for europe's pensioners.
the european commission has published a green paper entitled 'towards adequate, sustainable and secure pension systems'.
stresses the need for transparency in the information provided to citizens and, in the current multiple crises, aims to help make accessible, reliable and responsible decisions on pensions, thus strengthening citizens' confidence in pension systems that are based on solid foundations and sustainable in the long term.
it suggests that, taking into account the subsidiarity of the member states, the european community should focus not only on pension reforms but also on the sustainability of the financing system.
the new regulation provides the european central bank with certain specific powers necessary to carry out its task of supervising the european banking system, while also ensuring the opportunity to design a future european banking union that provides the public and economic actors with safe and sustainable financial services without major risks to the real economy of the european union.
with the damage caused by these phenomena estimated at €1 trillion, european and national authorities alike are forced to take decisive action to limit and combat these situations, which threaten both the sustainability of the internal market and the efficiency of the various tax systems.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
− i voted for this report because i believe that it is to the benefit of citizens to have a clear and transparent tax environment within the single market.
for crossborder, internal and external investments in the eu, ensuring a transparent, predictable and stable tax environment is in the interest of all businesses, citizens, state institutions.
we must bear in mind two things: first, that this support is not sustainable in the long term - that is why efforts are needed to find a political solution; second, that the millions of refugees, over 60% of whom are children or young people, will need constant support after returning home to rebuild their lives.
i would point out that there is a risk of creating a climate of scepticism among the population.
we also made it clear in our progress report that, with the enlargement process drawing on the lessons learnt about the accession process being streamlined and actually more and more in the hands of the member states, we could, through the negotiating framework, provide the member states – not just one member state, but all member states – with a guarantee that we might (and again i am just speculating here) start the screening process, which takes a sufficiently long period of time within which there will be an environment more conducive to addressing the name issue, and we could make it clear in that negotiating framework that we will not move towards the second stage of the accession negotiations – which means opening various chapters – unless the name issue has been solved.
you have been extremely hard-working and extremely active in working to bring the political parties together to create a compromise, to create the atmosphere and the environment which will allow european integration to come closer to the country and to its people, which is what this process is all about.
a successful macroregion must be a first step towards a european model capable of combining smart, inclusive and sustainable growth of european regions.
the common development objectives, initiated by the municipalities of the alpine regions, cover areas such as competitiveness, innovation, water, energy, environment, climate, increased accessibility and transport.
a strategy for mountain areas must prioritise agriculture as a key factor in maintaining a vibrant rural environment and in preserving jobs and human dignity in these areas.
− i voted in favour of the report because, in order to apply the provisions of regulation no 450/2008 as effectively as possible, it is necessary to postpone the entry into force of certain articles until 1 november 2013. the modernised customs code creates a new electronic customs environment.
the union, like the member states, is already party to the energy charter treaty, which provides for investment protection.
the agreement provides an opportunity for the two actors to explore new ways of removing unnecessary regulatory barriers that hinder trade and investment, thereby boosting the potential for smart, robust, sustainable and balanced economic growth.
− the eu and the usa share common values, comparable legal systems, and high – albeit different – standards of labour, consumer and environmental protection.
also, it is important to strengthen the development and enforcement of labour and environmental laws and policies and promote the core standards and benchmarks laid down by the ilo, as well as decent jobs and sustainable development.
these factors would lead to sustainable economic growth, increased competitiveness and, above all, new job creation.
on the other hand, it must be borne in mind that there is still untapped potential for transatlantic cooperation, which would bring about a new stage in the development of new jobs at transatlantic level and stimulate the potential for smart, robust, sustainable and balanced economic growth.
to do this, several issues facing the macro-region need to be addressed: the need to improve mobility, energy security, environmental protection and economic and social development.
the overall protection of soil and its environmental, economic, social, ecological and cultural functions is a prerequisite for addressing key international environmental challenges, such as mitigating and adapting to climate change, ensuring sufficient fresh water, combating groundwater depletion, preventing natural and man-made disasters, protecting biodiversity and combating desertification, steppe formation and deforestation.
the commission should actively promote mandatory responsible business conduct among eu companies operating abroad, with a special focus on ensuring strict compliance with all their legal obligations, in particular international standards and rules in the areas of human rights, labour and the environment.
this impact is undeniable and needs to be taken into account in european and national strategies, alongside measures to improve the energy efficiency of homes, which also play an important role.
i believe that investing in housing for housing would attract more and better trained specialists to the countryside, which would also contribute to economic growth and the maintenance of a vibrant rural environment.
regional state aid is support for the implementation of cohesion policy by providing concrete support for economic development, reducing interregional disparities, creating jobs and promoting sustainability.
i support the commission's initiative to introduce new sectors into the regulation, such as energy infrastructure and the environment.
a billion euro cut in food aid is not a wise move in the current climate.
i also draw particular attention to the concerns about reducing food waste, which has reached alarming proportions.
we have 40 million poor people in europe and we waste 90 million tonnes of food a year.
i also believe that the criteria for selecting foodstuffs need to be improved and, where appropriate, in particular to reduce waste at each stage of the supply chain and improve the efficiency of the supply chain, such as (...)
in writing.
i also believe that the adoption of the report will facilitate the achievement of the objective of the proposal, namely to ensure the sustainable exploitation of the cod stocks in the relevant areas.
consumer education and empowerment is the basic foundation for sustainable economic growth.
in addition, there is a need for better protection of vulnerable consumer groups, especially children and the elderly, especially in transport, financial services, energy and it services.
− improving occupational safety and health is important not only from a human point of view to reduce the suffering of workers, but also as a way of ensuring the success and sustainability of enterprises through better economic development in the long term.
we must not lose sight of the fact that some 60% of european fish stocks are exploited beyond the maximum sustainable limit.
maintaining fishing mortality rates at a sustainable level, based on scientific advice, should facilitate the recovery of fish stocks.
the rules on the eligibility of energy rehabilitation of dwellings in the context of social cohesion for funding from the european union structural funds should continue to be applied by the member states.
a good housing policy can generate economic growth, avoid macroeconomic imbalances and thus contribute to poverty reduction, planned land use, urban development and the fight against climate change.
for example, i think it is particularly important to tackle energy poverty and to define affordability of housing not only in terms of rent but also in terms of fuel bills.
in this context, i also note the important role played by improving energy efficiency as a solution to boost competitiveness, job creation, social protection and economic growth.
we share your concerns about the level of competition in sectors such as energy and transport.
concerning the full implementation of the third energy package, my colleague mr oettinger and his directorate-general may take the lead; the same in the transport sector with my colleague mr kallas and the same in the digital sector, in the telecoms sector, with my colleague ms neelie kroes.
− mr president, the introduction of employment aspects into competition policy is a positive move as the business environment has indeed changed since the beginning of the economic crisis.
these include the full implementation of the energy package, which is of major importance to european consumers in the context of rising energy prices, the close monitoring of competition in the agri-food sector or the move towards a more open market for electronic payments.
some 60% of european fish stocks are exploited beyond the maximum sustainable limit.
the eu is still the world's largest importer of fish and therefore must constantly step up its efforts to ensure the sustainable use of the marine environment and its resources.
by its nature, illegal fishing disregards conservation measures, endangering fish stocks and representing one of the main obstacles to the implementation of sustainable fishing worldwide.
in addition, its tendency to play by the rules is contributing to the degradation of the marine environment, the weakening of fish farming and worrying social dumping.
cohesion policy of course plays an important role in this, but it must be accompanied by effective rules at european level and we must take into account the impact of regional state aid, which leads to sustainable development in regions defined at european union level.
i also believe that food selection criteria need to be improved and, where appropriate, in particular to reduce waste at every stage of the supply chain and improve the efficiency of the supply chain, as well as to raise public awareness of this important issue.
i also show that the eu urgently needs a strategy to reduce food waste, which amounts to over 90 million tonnes a year.
i am pleased that we are taking important steps in the europe 2020 strategy, facilitating the transformation of the eu into a smarter, more sustainable and, above all, more inclusive economy.
i believe that to succeed in this area, we need to pay more attention to developing a concrete european strategy for social innovation, to closing the gaps between member states, to making efficient use of the european social fund and the european regional development fund and, last but not least, to promoting sustainable partnerships between states.
− the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth sets targets to lift at least 20 million people out of poverty and social exclusion and to increase the employment rate to 75% for the 20-64 age group.
i support the rapporteur's proposal that the granting of aid should not depend on the size of an undertaking but on its contribution to regional development, employment, the quality of investment or the sustainability of the project.
− maintaining a high level of competition at european union level is a guarantee of its sustainable development and the social character of the market economy.
the principles underpinning the future emu must be stability, sustainable growth and democracy.
we need a real emu, based on sustainable growth and solidarity.
in addition, measures are needed to ensure that sufficient numbers of highly qualified persons remain in the labour market of their communities or return to their member states of origin, with a view to enabling those member states to recover economically and stimulating sustainable growth.
the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the promotion of the environment, in particular by providing the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the promotion of the environment.
on the other hand, the european union needs to demonstrate that it is a top political authority to ensure the protection of journalists globally, given that many journalists do not have access to legal aid, although their profession is increasingly at the forefront of the struggle for human rights, whether in the online environment or in the traditional press.
poverty eradication as well as sustainable development must be at the top of the post-2015 development agenda, while avoiding setting a new set of targets without identifying concrete ways to achieve them and the sources of funding.
democracy and pluralism are the best environment for asserting the needs and expectations of citizens, for decent solving of their problems.
it is in no one's interest to draw parallels that lead to the waste of already limited resources.
i believe that after 2015, the union, as the world's leading aid donor, will have to focus on making poverty eradication efforts sustainable.
research into more effective and sustainable prevention and treatment programmes, including research and development of effective medical interventions, including vaccines, medicines and diagnostics, should be further supported.
− equality of opportunity is a key factor for sustainable development, yet discrimination persists in all countries of the world in women's access to education, the labour market, basic health services, especially reproductive and sexual health, and in decision-making.
− i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that poverty eradication and the achievement of global social and environmental sustainable development should be the priorities of the post-2015 development agenda.
furthermore, for greater coherence at european level, i support the alignment of the sustainable development goals with the post-2015 millennium development goals.
the european union's common position must contain key development and sustainability issues.
this is the whole point of this report, it ensures that poverty eradication, respect for human rights in the interests of peoples' peace and security, environmental sustainability of the actions that can be carried out and the necessary strengthening of cooperation between donors to improve the financing of actions are taken into account.
whenever we do that we try to be balanced because we understand that this has to be done in a way that benefits human health and the environment but that is also cost-efficient.
particular attention should be paid to labour and environmental standards, safety and security, passenger rights and, in general, compliance with european regulations.
these five areas are: blue energy, aquaculture, maritime and coastal tourism, marine mineral extraction and blue biotechnology.
but i would also like to underline that there are many ways to contribute to the sector’s sustainable growth, such as by reducing greenhouse gas emissions, removing administrative barriers, cutting red tape and promoting innovation.
finally, on the importance of integrated sustainability, i share the concerns expressed here by some members about the need for sustainability in all these actions.
i fully agree that the environmental dimension needs to be mainstreamed into any blue-growth initiative.
we need to preserve our natural environment if we want to benefit fully from the opportunities it offers, and not to destroy it as we have done in some cases.
that is why a substantial research project on mineral extraction and its environmental impact is now being negotiated under the european framework programme.
as the rapporteur and others have said, this must come with the precondition that this or any other emerging sector is part and parcel of a wider sustainability effort.
more specifically, we need to make sure that, if a man-made tool of any kind touches the bottom of our seas, strict environmental standards are observed, no matter whom it belongs to.
in the context of the resolution on blue growth - strengthening sustainable growth in the eu's shipping, maritime transport and tourism sectors, i would like to underline the importance of the danube strategy, which involves the 14 eu member states and third countries in the danube basin.
i particularly stress the importance of continuing the projects initiated in the fields of environmental protection, biodiversity, fisheries resources, but also in the fields of transport and tourism.
they stimulate job creation better than other models due to their ability to adapt to change and keep their job at risk, are anchored in the local economy, contribute to sustainable local development and ensure that their business is not off-shored, even when operating internationally.
together with the imperative of maximum safety conditions for the design, construction and operation of nuclear power stations, the proposal is part of the current logic of reducing the union's energy dependence.
the fukushima accident showed the damage caused by nuclear disasters, among other things, serious long-term health problems, such as thyroid abnormalities and increased risk of cancer, but also serious environmental problems that affect human health.
it calls on the member states of the european union, in particular those using nuclear energy, to accede to, sign and ratify the vienna convention and the 1997 protocol on civil liability for nuclear damage.
as more and more foundations carry out cross-border activities in areas of public interest, such as medical research, climate change, education or training, it is necessary to regulate the status of such foundations.
such structures operate in the union in the public interest in important areas such as education, vocational training, social and health services, youth, art, culture, sport, the environment, historical memory and reconciliation between peoples, and in most cases the projects carried out are cross-border projects with partners from several eu countries.
- i voted in favour of the report because non-compliance with the rules applicable to maritime transport allows certain vessels to navigate in unsafe conditions, endangering both human lives and the marine environment.
environmental protection issues must not be neglected, because 5% of the car fleet causes 25% of total emissions of pollutants, and a significant part is generated by vehicles with problems with the emission control system.
chemical pollution, as we know, directly or indirectly affects not only the lives of aquatic animals but also the lives of the citizens of the european union, and water pollution cannot be stopped at the border, which is why i believe that a joint effort is needed to achieve positive results in combating pollution.
- i voted in favour of the report because water pollution is one of the problems of concern to european citizens, chemical contamination being a threat to the aquatic environment.
the objective of the 2000 water framework directive is to achieve good environmental status by 2015. the updating of the list of chemicals presenting risks and the proposal to add new substances considered dangerous will improve the effectiveness of the directive.
last but not least, i would like to inform you that a project to monitor the danube waters has recently been launched in romania, which will also include activities to inform the population about the correct management of waste.
− chemical pollution is one of the factors that increasingly affects the aquatic environment and the quality of safe and clean water in our society.
therefore, taking appropriate measures to control chemical pollution of water is a central aspect of sustainable water management.
the water framework directive (wfd), adopted in 2000, adopts an integrated approach to water policy, focusing on water management at the level of river basins, setting a sustainability target of achieving good overall ecological, chemical and quantitative status for eu water bodies by 2015. the dca sets out in particular strategies to combat water pollution.
− water pollution is one of the main environmental concerns expressed by eu citizens.
the water framework directive is our key tool to improve water availability and quality by reducing chemical pollution.
in the current context, an amendment to the water framework directive is necessary to have a clearer and more effective water pollution control strategy, capable of ensuring the conservation of a balanced aquatic environment and preventing dramatic damage to the environment and human health.
identifying the causes of pollution and tackling emissions at source as effectively as possible must be a priority.
it is therefore very important to identify and monitor possible sources of pollution and to apply systematically the fundamental 'polluter pays' principle laid down in directive 2006/60/ec.
the transboundary nature of water pollution is of particular importance.
i also consider it important to provide citizens with adequate, transparent and timely information on the state of the european union's waters and on the measures taken and results achieved in the context of strategies to combat chemical pollution.
− chemical pollution is one of the factors that greatly affects the aquatic environment and the availability and quality of safe and clean water in our society.
i believe that appropriate measures should be taken to control chemical pollution of water under the water framework directive.
these problems are largely the result of chemical water pollution affecting both aquatic biodiversity and public health, and so should be addressed as a matter of urgency.
in particular, i sympathised with the principle that the polluter should pay the full amount of funds necessary to rectify the environmental damage they cause at source.
these measures are designed to improve, on an international level, the quality of the environment, rationalise the use of natural resources and improve public health.
− supporting economic growth and sustainable development must not ignore the marine dimension.
this remains a key component of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular with regard to the objectives of sustainable development and the smart use of natural resources.
ensuring sustainable growth in the eu's marine areas cannot be achieved without a close collaborative process between european and national actors.
therefore, the development of energy or transport infrastructure projects could lead to economic growth in the area.
from an energy point of view, the black sea can contribute to ensuring the energy independence of the states in the area.
− technological advances and the demand for new sources of sustainable development could increase the size of the maritime economy to €590 billion by 2020, providing a total of 7 million jobs by 2020, provided they are supported by training policies that ensure a satisfactory level of expertise and experience.
− the europe 2020 strategy gives a strong place to european marine policies, with the aim of enabling the union to respond to the pressing and growing challenges facing humanity, including climate change.
in addition, europe's long and strong maritime tradition is reinforced by new and developing activities such as wind energy, cruises and offshore aquaculture.
they also contribute to sustainable local development and ensure that their work is not off-loaded, which is significant in this time of crisis.
the institutional transition to a genuine bioeconomy, capable of ensuring both sustainable development and social inclusion or the rational use of natural resources, is essential for the european union in the light of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
but through the production of industrial goods at low prices, reduced energy consumption and reduced pollution, the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy can be achieved.
romania has implemented several bio-economy projects in the field of waste collection and recovery.
at the same time, local authorities and smes have been involved in the creation of the reserve for the protection of biodiversity in the danube delta and the lower prut region.
− the bioeconomy represents an important opportunity to respond to today's challenges, ensuring not only increased sustainability but also supporting rural development, a potential reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, increased sustainability of the production cycle and the spread of industrial innovation along the entire value chain.
− as we increasingly face challenges such as the world's growing population, the depletion of natural resources, increasing pressures on the environment, climate change, the bio-economy represents an important opportunity to respond to these challenges.
the commission's proposed action plan will ensure the transition to a smart, sustainable and inclusive bioeconomy and enable europe to develop an innovative, low-emission economy that reconciles the objectives of sustainable agriculture and fisheries, food security and the sustainable use of biological resources for industrial purposes, while ensuring the protection of the environment and biodiversity.
for the sustained promotion of the bioeconomy, i believe it is important to raise awareness and inform consumers about the content and benefits of the bioeconomy and the best consumption options within a sustainable and healthy lifestyle.
− with the world population approaching 9 billion people by 2050 and natural resources running out, european citizens need renewable biological resources for safe and healthy food and feed.
it includes sectors such as agriculture, forestry, fisheries, food and paper and pulp production, as well as part of the chemical, biotechnology and energy industries.
the main objective should be to have a more innovative, low-emission economy that reconciles the demands of sustainable agriculture and fisheries, food security and the sustainable use of biological resources for industrial purposes, while ensuring the protection of the environment and biodiversity.
- i voted in favour of mr bartolozzi's report, which deals in a timely manner with the subject of sustainable growth linked to innovation and of european character.
the sustainable economy is a growing sector which, if carefully developed, can act as a driver for national economies and boost productive investment.
− i voted for this proposal as it advances sustainability whilst also promoting development and economic growth.
by 2050, we expect a 70 % increase in food consumption, alongside a greater stress on water supplies and on renewable and non-renewable resources.
these efforts will both maintain our competitiveness and sustainability.
i believe that the removal of technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties, and in particular the assurance that these vehicles offer a high level of safety and environmental protection, are important objectives which require particular attention from the eu.
− the european union is leading the global effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from human activities, which threaten to cause dangerous global climate change.
the community emissions trading scheme (eu ets) developed by the european union is the cornerstone of its strategy to reduce its own greenhouse gas emissions cost-effectively.
this system is based on the recognition that carbon pricing is the most cost-effective way to significantly reduce global greenhouse gas emissions, and that such reductions are necessary to prevent dangerous levels of climate change.
− one of the european union's most important objectives is to reduce industrial emissions.
due to the large quantities of emission allowances, the carbon price is falling very noticeably from around 30 euro/tonne of co2 to around 7 euro/tonne of co2, and investments in technologies need to be supported.
i therefore believe that we need to take steps to strike a balance between carbon emissions and scientific innovation and i agree with the structural changes, considering that the volume of greenhouse gas emissions quotas requires special conditions.
the proposal voted today extends the risk assessment and coordination measures applicable to communicable diseases to all threats to health from biological, chemical or environmental sources; strengthens the role of the health security committee to improve coordination of crisis response measures; and provides for each member state to develop, strengthen and update in a coordinated manner national health crisis preparedness and response plans, exchanging good practices with other member states.
− i voted in favour of this report as i believe that latvia is ready to become a member of the euro area as of 1 january 2014. latvia fulfils all the maastricht criteria for price stability, sound public finances, controlled exchange rate fluctuation and also shows a sustainable degree of real convergence with the euro area.
at such times, we must realize that it is essential to reorient current agricultural and forestry practices so that they become truly sustainable, so that they do not contribute to the acceleration of soil degradation.
this support is essential to remedy the economic and environmental losses suffered by communities and people.
− in the context of climate change, which has caused devastating natural phenomena worldwide, effective flood prevention is essential in all eu member states and must be addressed through precise risk management strategies, both interregional and cross-border, where there is great potential for coordination and for the implementation of a common emergency response.
in the fight against cyberattacks, we need trust and cooperation, both within the european union and internationally, because in the cyber environment there are no borders.
– madam president, i consider that we need a better or real implementation of the council common position (ccp) but only in a manner that is sustainable and good for both the industry and the people that the ccp is supposed to protect.
to this end, we must make every effort to improve the strategy between european and national policies, to eliminate discrepancies between member states and, last but not least, to promote sustainable partnerships at international level between the institutions involved, both at european, national and regional level.
european producers must have a predictable and stable economic environment that does not affect their exports through unilateral decisions.
− in a constantly changing technological and media environment, the market positioning logic of commercial and publishing operators in both the public and private sectors needs to be re-examined.
in the interests of both food production and the continued availability of green energy, the commission must also look for incentive-based solutions to encourage the production of uncultivated land.
– having once been touted as a big part of the solution to climate change, biofuels are now increasingly under scrutiny for their unintended and potentially damaging effects.
initial concerns about competition with food crops and the consequent effect on food prices have been followed by further worries about indirect land use change, namely the destruction of carbon sinks, such as forests and wetlands.
i therefore welcome the commissionʼs proposal to limit the amount which biofuels may contribute towards renewable energy targets, as part of a cautious approach to biofuel policy which would limit the potential damage caused by excessive production.
i recognise the large efforts made by my s&d colleagues to encourage investment in advanced biofuels, in order to support the evolution of a renewable energy policy which does not put food in competition with fuel or drive the destruction of ecologically valuable land.
it is time for the european union to make real progress towards a functioning single energy market.
to this end, the european commission and the council must act to ensure that member states remove the restrictions generated by national regulations and overcome the resistance of companies that are making a quasi-monopoly profit from the absence of a single energy market.
is it not a european issue if i want to create all the conditions for a potential environmental disaster in the union?
moreover, any environmental damage would affect several member states.
the implementation of the transport technology strategy for sustainable mobility needs to take into account the differences in transport networks between regions in order to develop an integrated model at european level, to reduce regional inequalities, but also to stimulate labour mobility with a view to strengthening territorial cohesion.
the commission shares the view that cohesion policy instruments should invest in energy and thereby contribute to competitiveness, job creation and growth.
it is, as the rapporteur says, very important to emphasise the regional and local levels in terms of achieving the ambitious goals in the energy sector because regions and cities can work to find tailored local solutions – as the covenant of mayors has clearly illustrated.
this applies too with regard to the design of energy measures under the cohesion policy programmes.
it is also important to have a number of standardised instruments, including one for sustainable energy investment in residential buildings.
we need to work here on transforming the energy system, and the new energy efficiency directive will bring the intensive renovation of buildings to the forefront as a means of meeting the energy efficiency target for 2020. our approach needs to be result-oriented, and that is why the commission is working on practical guidelines for designing and implementing investment in the area of sustainable energy in buildings in the context of cohesion policy funding.
the report on energy efficiency measures in cohesion policy is an important step in the good management of funds earmarked for improving the energy efficiency of housing.
improving the energy efficiency of homes is a priority, especially in eastern european states, where residential buildings have a high potential for energy savings, with a positive impact on the population and in particular on low-income citizens.
the first paragraph refers to the need for bureaucracy-free formalities for the use of funds for energy efficiency improvements in housing.
implementing these suggestions would lead to more efficient management of funds and, by implication, to energy savings and savings for citizens.
by proposing a single legal framework applicable throughout the union and common sanctions, we are building a predictable environment that is conducive to investment and capable of contributing to economic growth.
property rights after divorce, but also in the event of death, remain an obstacle in the way of citizens, who waste time and money looking for the applicable legislation and the competent court.
- a strategic approach to transport is one of the prerequisites for the sustainable development of european economies.
there are currently considerable differences in transport networks between regions and this requires investment in sustainable transport technologies and solutions in regions with specific disadvantages, while taking into account the potential of the connecting europe facility.
this strategy will improve connections between different modes of transport and contribute to the eu's climate change objectives by reducing co2 emissions from transport.
transport and mobility policy is essential for the development of a sustainable economy, but some vital links are currently missing.
i would like to draw attention to the need to invest in sustainable transport technologies in less developed regions, so that there is balanced development in line with the objective of cohesion.
last but not least, particular attention should be paid to the exchange of good practices in the field of sustainable transport, as well as to the development of initiatives rewarding sustainable urban development projects, such as the regiostars awards.
- the establishment of a genuine internal energy market is one of the measures which directly contribute to ensuring the union's overall energy security and sustainability.
the completion of an internal energy market will not only boost the economic growth of european countries, but can also lead to job creation.
i am confident that the start of the ambitious investment programme undertaken at this level can lead, in the medium term, to the achievement of real energy independence for the european union by developing its own potential and exploiting indigenous resources.
i would also like to draw attention to the imperative of supporting the production of green energy as a decisive step in the fight against climate change by the union and its member states.
− energy prices will continue to rise as long as europe remains dependent on oil and gas imports and on insufficient investment to maintain and upgrade its energy systems.
it is beneficial for europe to continue developing indigenous resources, which will lead to the emergence of new trading centres in the eu and give the union and the member states a real chance to set their own energy prices, including at regional and local level.
- i voted for the buzek report because it represents a step forward towards completing the single energy market.
the report stresses the need to meet the commitments to achieve a single energy market by 2014 through better coordination of energy policies and cooperation between member states.
for the moment, the eu's powers are limited, based on the principle of subsidiarity, with member states deciding how they use their energy resources and which sources they use.
the internal market for energy and gas should be fully operational by next year.
it is estimated that without the single market, by 2035 the price of energy in europe would be 50% higher than in the us and 300% higher than in china.
for consumers, the single market will mean more transparency in their energy bills and more choice.
for industry, the internal market will be an incentive not to leave europe, energy security will increase and costs will fall.
the european union imports more than 50% of its energy needs, which makes us dependent on relations with external partners and vulnerable to pressure from russia.
in this context, diversification of energy sources is essential to maintain our independence in a future marked by energy crises.
romania can become the largest wind energy producer in southern europe.
a clear long-term strategy is needed and the difficulties faced by foreign investors in exploiting green energy must be removed.
the government must also take measures to prevent possible imbalances in energy production and consumption.
- increasing the eu's energy efficiency is creating the conditions not only for a resumption of economic growth but also for the creation of new jobs, at a time when unemployment, especially among young people, has reached critical levels.
at the same time, the european union must remain the leading global actor in the fight against climate change, driving global governance by example.
combining energy efficiency objectives with cohesion policies thus leads to both achieving the objectives set by the european states in the europe 2020 strategy and strengthening the bonds of solidarity within the union.
they urgently need to adapt to new energy saving requirements and the european structural and investment funds play a crucial role in providing the necessary funding.
on the other hand, there are rural and remote areas with ideal conditions for the development of efficient forms of decentralised energy production, which would result in significant reductions in energy losses associated with the transport of electricity over long distances.
i believe that member states should make the greatest possible use of national and regional programmes for the design and construction of new energy-efficient buildings, but also for the phased upgrading of existing buildings to be energy-efficient, including buildings for low-income households.
in this sense, the reduction of energy waste and the use of alternative and/or renewable sources will have to find new impetus and not lose sight of the important objectives set.
at present, the energy efficiency of the european union is less than 50% of optimum capacity, which, at least mathematically, puts us on the mediocrity line.
i encourage the report's initiatives to support the union 2020 commitment to impose a 20% energy efficiency strategy.
thus, the effect of boosting energy productivity will be to reduce unemployment, help reduce budgetary expenditure in this sector and improve energy standards and networks in regional areas with socio-economic difficulties.
regions should prioritise their specific development objectives by identifying and developing their own energy efficiency measures according to their potential.
academic research confirms that three years ago, 9% of european citizens were facing energy poverty.
reducing the vulnerability of energy consumers can be achieved through investments in improving local energy generation capacity.
currently, local and regional authorities have limited powers and responsibilities in terms of access to and use of energy resources.
a clear synergy between national energy efficiency targets and operational programmes is needed to ensure coherence in future partnership agreements.
in romania, the change of the rules during the game in the case of green certificates for renewable energy production created imbalances and uncertainties.
i support this report because i believe it is necessary to use the structural funds to finance sustainable energy projects and to attract private capital investment.
these points refer to the need for simple, unbureaucratic formalities for the use of funds intended for energy efficiency improvements in housing, and to the direct access of municipalities to these funds, within a decentralised system.
- any strategic vision for fisheries must take into account the importance of crossborder cooperation for the development of this economic sector and for the sustainable conservation of natural resources.
the regional strategy must not ignore the danger of pollution the high number of endemic species in these areas, as well as the proximity of human settlements, are factors that must be taken into account by european decision-makers and economic actors.
− fishing is an important sector for most of the regions that face the adriatic and ionian seas, and i therefore believe that a strategy for the adriatic and ionian seas should take into account in particular the sustainable development and growth of the fisheries and aquaculture sector, including employment.
youth unemployment says something about the strength of our economy, so if one wants to deal with this issue, one needs to create a better economic environment.
however, none of these will work in a frozen economic environment.
it is the regulation of an ever-changing environment.
the diversity of languages and cultures in europe is nothing less than the living heritage which secures the sustainable development of european societies.
− today we adopted the regulation that the executive directors of the european environment agency will have to be heard by the european parliament before being appointed.
this is a request i made in my capacity as rapporteur for the 2010 discharge of the european environment agency.
i welcome the fact that the european environment agency is now aligned with the european food safety authority, the european medicines agency and the european chemicals agency.
however, i regret that under article 1 of the amended regulation the hearing will only take place before the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
− private and public buildings, water supply and waste water disposal infrastructure, as well as businesses and agricultural land and forests were affected by flooding in large areas of the sava, kupa, mura and drava river basins in slovenia and the mura, drava and lavant river basins in austria, as well as on the territory of croatia, in 2012. as such, it is useful to mobilise the solidarity fund to support the efforts of local and regional authorities and private individuals and companies to remedy the effects of these floods, to show solidarity with all citizens affected by natural disasters.
− the use of biofuels has been steadily increasing over the last decade as a result of the eu's policy to limit the environmental impact of transport and reduce europe's dependence on petroleum-based fuels.
the european parliament recognised the importance of promoting renewable energy.
directive 2009/28/ec on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources and directive 98/70/ec on the quality of petrol and diesel are aimed at combating climate change and reducing the eu's dependence on external energy sources.
however, the main purpose of the two directives is in danger of being undermined by the effect of indirect land-use change, which may offset the greenhouse gas emission savings of individual biofuels compared to the fossil fuels they replace.
scientific work shows that indirect land-use change emissions can vary substantially from one commodity to another in relation to the fossil fuels they replace and that greenhouse gas emissions related to indirect land-use change are significant and could offset, in whole or in part, the greenhouse gas reductions from individual biofuels.
at the same time, the multiplication of greenhouse gas emissions from the increasing use of agricultural land for biofuel production negates many of the benefits of biofuels.
i therefore welcome the european parliament's vote in favour of limiting the use of traditional biofuels and moving more quickly to advanced biofuels from alternative sources such as seaweed and waste.
the european parliament adopted a resolution on the eu's future energy policy, which aims to limit first-generation biofuels, i.e.
those derived from agricultural crops, to 6% of final energy consumption in the transport sector by 2020, as opposed to the 10% target in existing legislation.
advanced biofuels, generated from seaweed or waste, will need to account for at least 2.5% of energy consumption in the transport sector.
the legislative proposal has important economic and ethical implications and is essential for the integrity of the eu's climate change policy.
i voted in favour of the draft fuel quality directive and the renewable energy directive which the socialist and democratic group sought to adapt in order to respond more effectively to the environmental and food challenges ahead.
− i supported the limit on the contribution of biofuels to renewable energy targets because of several major concerns about the unintended effects of biofuel production.
we must not allow biofuel policy to cause the destruction of carbon sinks such as forests and wetlands, as this would only serve to undermine the co2 reductions which biofuels were intended to achieve.
in order to support a dynamic environment for competitiveness and economic growth, while ensuring appropriate uniform levels of control of goods, i believe that modern and simple customs rules, based on state-of-the-art systems and allowing for the harmonisation of controls so that the economic operator is required to provide information only once, should be promoted.
− i voted to postpone the decision on the revision of the environmental impact assessment directive.
in the context of the special partnership between the european union and cape verde, the union has undertaken a policy aimed in particular at promoting good governance, security and stability, sustainable development and the fight against poverty.
we must not forget the category of young people who 'waste their intelligence'.
this report also gave us the opportunity to contribute to the amendment of the draft directive on environmental impact so that in the future it will be impossible to repeat this.
on the one hand, burning biofuels increases carbon emissions and contributes to global warming, on the other hand, biofuel subsidies particularly favour large farms operating on a monoculture basis.
in the absence of sufficiently developed production capacity, romania would have had to import biofuels to meet the target of strategy 2020. but of course, biofuel producers need to develop the ability to process waste and non-food woody plants.
− if we want the eu to meet its long-term renewable energy targets, we need to consider microgeneration.
this contributes to increasing the total share of renewable energy in the eu energy mix and allows for efficient consumption of electricity close to the point where it is generated, thus also avoiding losses during transport.
i would like to mention that the efficient use of microgeneration is influenced by several factors, such as: a functional european internal energy market; the technical development of microgeneration units; the realisation of an intelligent energy infrastructure, especially at the distribution level, and, not least, short, medium and long-term policies and effective support mechanisms to stimulate microgeneration at european, national and local level.
− access to enough energy for a decent standard of living is a fundamental right for all citizens and, as energy prices have risen significantly in recent years, i believe that the role of research and technology in improving efficiency and reducing the costs of microgeneration is essential.
− technological progress, economic developments and the economic and social crisis have a great impact on the working environment and need rapid responses to provide a high level of health and safety at work.
by creating a favourable fiscal environment, this sector can become the engine of growth in europe.
mr president, the success of the eu carbon market depends not just on the level of its future ambitions but on solving its current problems.
one of the key developments in the ets should have been the introduction of aviation emissions into the scheme, but the refusal of third countries to accept this has called the whole scheme into question.
the aviation issue reflects the wider problem with our climate policy: so while our industries worry about unfair competition, our governments are worried about the effect of relocation on these industries.
these partnerships will ensure an important role in achieving the europe 2020 objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, but the need for thematic focus on a small number of priorities must be taken into account.
the amendments i would like to mention here and which i will be voting on with enthusiasm tomorrow are to integrate crossborder and cumulative effects into environmental assessments, to ensure that they are carried out by independent experts, to remove the suspicion of conflicts of interest, to ensure effective public participation, and this must be guaranteed and documented in reports.
the scale of the phenomenon also allows for the maintenance of various stereotypes and the practice of a widespread system of discrimination, significantly limiting the possibility of sustainable development.
− the european union is facing a period of rapid transition and transformation, particularly in terms of power, demography, climate, urbanisation and technology.
this process can offer effective prospects for tackling the crisis, reducing imbalances and strengthening the european union's sustainable growth.
it is important to rebuild and improve financial capacity at regional level and to provide appropriate technical assistance, in particular in the implementation of complex and locally managed joint projects, in order to secure public investment for programmes and projects aimed at boosting sustainable growth, combating social exclusion and restoring social fabric by providing adequate social and health services and creating jobs, especially at regional and local level.
we must make sure that we suggest practical and viable ways of improving the financial capacity of local and regional authorities for productive investment for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
by enhancing financial capacity at local and regional level and providing appropriate technical assistance, we will secure public investment for programmes and projects that boost sustainable growth, combat social exclusion and create new jobs.
− i welcome the european parliament's motion for a resolution on a comprehensive union strategy for fisheries in the pacific region, as i believe it is in the european union's interest to develop relations with the pacific region and cooperate in order to achieve its development objectives, based on the premise of conserving fisheries resources, promoting sustainable fisheries development and encouraging transparency in fisheries management.
− the mediterranean and black seas have specific oceanographic, fisheries, environmental and socio-economic characteristics that need to be taken into account in a sustainable resource management strategy.
in this context, i welcome the european parliament's motion for a resolution which aims at more efficient and sustainable management of marine resources in the mediterranean and black seas by promoting cohesion and cooperation between the coastal member states involved.
i share the call for the establishment of a strengthened system of monitoring, control and surveillance of fishing activity in the two basins, with an integrated approach to improve the conservation of the ecosystem, in accordance with european and international law.
i would like to thank, on behalf of the alde group, both mrs vergnaud for the energy and patience with which she conducted the negotiations and the other colleagues who worked on this dossier, in particular my colleague cristian buşoi, who participated in the negotiations on behalf of the alde group and who recently left the european parliament.
− the directive on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment establishes the simple but fundamental principle of 'informed decision': before authorising the implementation of a public or private project likely to have an impact on the environment, the competent authorities of the member states are legally obliged to gather the information necessary to carry out an environmental impact assessment.
in its 28 years of application, this legislation has been relatively successful in harmonising the principles of environmental impact assessment at union level.
in line with the union's priorities, the proposal introduces biodiversity, the use of natural resources, climate change and the risks of natural and man-made disasters among the factors to be considered in environmental impact assessments.
i consider that the decision to analyse projects in terms of cumulation with other projects or activities was necessary, as this will prevent the harmful practice of fragmenting works into batches in order to reduce the identified environmental impacts.
i voted in favour of referring the report on the assessment of the impact of certain public and private undertakings on the environment to the environment committee in order to further debate this important text.
the directive on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment (eia) establishes the fundamental principle of informed decision: before authorising the implementation of a public or private project likely to have an impact on the environment, the competent authorities of the member states are required by law to collect the information necessary to carry out an environmental impact assessment.
on the basis of the precautionary principle, and as requested by parliament in its resolution of 21 november 2012 on the environmental impact of shale gas and oil shale extraction, it was decided today to take measures to ensure that exploration projects limited to hydraulic fracturing and extraction are systematically subject to an eia.
− the proposed revision of directive 2011/92/eu on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment aims to introduce new environmental impact assessment factors for certain activities and to streamline procedures in this area.
the european commission has already taken a first initiative in this regard through the 'environmental, climate and energy assessment framework to enable safe and secure unconventional hydrocarbon extraction' work programme introduced in 2013, which aims to provide a risk management framework, address regulatory gaps and provide maximum clarity and predictability of the legal framework for both citizens and market operators.
− the modernisation of existing european rules on safety and environmental performance requirements for recreational and sporting vessels or training vessels, with or without crew, for use at sea or on inland waterways is beneficial as the number of such vessels has been steadily increasing at union level in recent years.
i support the rapporteur's proposals on the basic requirements to be met by these vessels, namely the rules on stability and buoyancy, engine and electrical safety, exhaust gas emissions and noise emissions, and the inclusion of the five-year deadline at the end of which eu member states must inform the european commission about the implementation of the provisions of the directive.
− creating a better environment for eu investors in china and vice versa, aimed at improving market access, enabling increased levels of mutual capital flows and ensuring transparency in company governance will also benefit the expected increase in legal certainty for european smes to invest abroad.
on the other hand, poor implementation and lack of legal provisions on certain environmental standards and social and labour rights in china create uncertainty and contribute to the growing mistrust of european investors.
if the human rights arguments are not enough, consider what it would mean in today's economic climate to include members of this community in the labour market, to reduce the tax they pay and, consequently, to reduce social spending.
here, i am thinking first and foremost of the different petitions in the areas of fundamental rights, environment, internal market and those related to the economic and social crisis: rights of persons with disabilities, rights of children, rights of free movement without discrimination on any grounds, rights of minorities, access to documents and information, implementation of legislation on waste and water, as well as assessment of the impact of projects and activities on the environment, free movement of citizens and workers, housing, banking sector malpractices and so forth – these are all issues about which our citizens are concerned in a very concrete and tangible way and which have to be addressed properly and with due care, whenever the european union has the competence and capacity to act.
as in previous years, the committee on petitions received a very large number of petitions alleging breaches of european environmental law.
it is ultimately at stake when it comes to the environment, the quality of life of european citizens in our countries, and the preservation of a unique natural heritage and biodiversity.
in the same vein, i welcome the proposal to amend the european directive on environmental impact assessment, which was voted on yesterday, and which contains an absolutely important contribution from the committee on petitions.
this zanoni report, substantially inspired by the work of our committee, proposes remedies and requires the environmental impact study of shale gas extraction, exploration and exploitation.
the 2006 battery directive sought to ban the use of cadmium, allowing only a few exceptions, because of the risks to the environment, but also because it has been associated with the risk of serious diseases such as cancer and cardiovascular disease.
the european union has a responsibility to protect both the environment and public health, but health, safety and environmental concerns often conflict with the needs of industry and even the individual needs of citizens for goods and services.
the current regulations have reduced the presence of these toxic substances in household products, thereby reducing the harmful effects on the environment and, consequently, our exposure to these substances.
this new inter-institutional agreement shows the success of these solutions, which means reducing pollution and health risks.
i believe that the european union must continue to support research into the energy footprint of batteries and accumulators in the economy.
the polluting effect of these technologies cannot be ignored, and the reduction of the energy footprint as well as the limitation of pollution are clearly stated objectives in the strategic and political documents of the european union.
− there are several good elements in this agreement, but i particularly welcome the requirement for appliance design to ensure that waste batteries can be removed easily.
intelligent management of resources and waste is key to meeting the biggest health and environmental challenges that the world’s growing population faces.
the commission's report on its work shows that petitions received in 2012 focused on environmental protection, and in this area corruption in the member states causes sometimes irreparable losses.
the challenges facing the entire planet in climate change require ever stronger and more robust international agreements on cooperation between countries at different levels, because no country can do it alone.
i think it is important that all countries work together to establish clear rules on land use, agriculture, biofuels, industrial or residential areas and land use change, especially for forested areas, which play a key role in reducing carbon emissions, but also in preventing floods and landslides.
it is also important that the european union and the member states continue the process of developing sustainable bioenergy resources, but without affecting agricultural areas.
the more courageous its decision to pursue european integration is, the more it depends on russia for energy.
i am equally concerned by the energy component of our relationship with moldova.
i would remind you of the embargo imposed by moscow on imports of wine from the republic of moldova, as well as other political pressures, energy, commercial and military blackmail exercised in recent months against the republic of moldova.
so our overall approach is that we will not only continue to offer and pursue trade-related benefits and preferences for these countries, but we will also seriously take on board all the proposals and views, tabled during this debate, which will assist us in future policy-making in areas other than trade: policy-making in the energy sector partnership and in a transport sector partnership, and other measures which could strengthen the european eastern partnership framework.
shale gas is an important issue for the european union, both in terms of environmental protection and economic development and population bills.
we recently had the opportunity to participate in the improvement of environmental legislation on shale gas.
we have succeeded in making environmental impact assessment studies mandatory for both exploration and exploitation, so that any operation is carried out with the utmost care and safety for the environment and for people.
instead, many pdl colleagues voted against them, that is, they refused to support increased safety and environmental protection measures for shale gas projects.
the report starts from the essential role of local authorities and civil society organisations and highlights their importance at all stages of the sustainable development process.
in this respect, the report supports the promotion of a favourable environment for civil society organisations and local authorities at national level in terms of policy and regulatory provisions, through respect for standards of freedoms, and the initiation of multilateral dialogues.
these actions are required to address decent work, sustainable and inclusive growth, with revenue redistribution through the state budget.
in this context, we supported the streamlining of tax collection to ensure sustainable development financing and highlighted the role of local authorities and civil society organisations in combating corruption, including tax evasion and illicit financial flows from developing countries.
the european union has been and is strongly involved in supporting local authorities in partner countries to strengthen their governance and improve their performance in sustainable development and poverty eradication.
i believe that a stronger political commitment from the union is needed to support a favourable environment for civil society organisations and local authorities and to strengthen their capacity to mainstream these issues into policies and programmes that are favourable to inclusion and poverty eradication.
i believe that additional provisions are needed to ensure that recycling and waste treatment are carried out in environmentally safe conditions.
ship recycling facilities with low or no standards for the protection of workers, human health and the environment offer the most attractive price for waste vessels.
the requirements applicable to ship recycling facilities should be based on the hong kong convention but should be broader in order to achieve a level of protection of human health and the environment broadly equivalent to that in the union.
the regulation will require the dismantling of these vessels at yards that meet new environmental and social standards.
in almost every policy area in which the eu is active, whether economic, social or environmental, high-quality demographic statistics are needed to help formulate operational objectives and to assess progress, for example, to make valid comparisons between member states.
− supporting sustainable development, alongside the fight against climate change, is not only an objective of the european union's internal policies, but also a key coordinator of european policy in the world.
however, this is impossible to achieve without the creation of legitimate institutional formulas for interaction, and here subsidiarity and legitimate local authorities play a major role in creating the conditions for sustainable development.
− establishing responsible, human rights-based and inclusive relationships between public administrations, local authorities, civil society organisations, the private sector and citizens offers the eu, including citizens, local authorities and the private sector, a unique opportunity to forge sustainable partnerships with developing countries.
the european commission and the european external action service should integrate the promotion of a supportive environment for civil society organisations and local authorities and consider this as a priority of the eu position in the context of the ongoing negotiations on the post-2015 development framework.
it is also important to strengthen the expertise of eu staff, especially at delegation level, on decentralisation and the role of civil society organisations and local authorities in sustainable development, and to encourage their participation, including women's organisations, with a view to including a gender perspective in these processes.
−the existence and development of strategic partnerships between local authorities in eu member states and those in partner countries, as well as with national, regional and international associations and networks of local authorities, will enable eu partners outside the union to strengthen their governance and improve their performance in sustainable development and poverty eradication.
i believe that a stronger political commitment from the european union is needed to support a favourable environment for civil society organisations and local authorities and to strengthen their capacity to mainstream these issues into policies and programming that are favourable to inclusion and poverty eradication.
i would like to welcome the adoption of this report which supports collaboration between local authorities and civil society, in line with the european union's commitment to support sustainable development.
it aims to improve the effectiveness of partnerships between all actors involved in the development of better working conditions, an agenda that supports sustainable and inclusive growth through national budgets, and by promoting the accountability of actors in the sector.
to achieve a sustainable partnership between the european union and its partners in developing countries, we need an institutionalised mechanism for dialogue between public administrations, civil society organisations, local authorities and the private sector.
key areas where this partnership can be beneficial include good governance, fiscal decentralisation and sustainable development.
− civil society organisations (csos) and local authorities are the main building blocks of smart, sustainable and inclusive development, with a view to improving living conditions both within the union and at the level of its partners.
i believe that the eu's commitment to promoting a cso-friendly environment at all decision-making levels should be a model of good practice and an incentive for partner countries.
they are the premises for sustainable development and the building of an inclusive society.
but we must bear in mind that the union has been committed almost from its foundation to promoting a cohesion-centred model of sustainable development.
citizens who have chosen to settle in another state should not be scapegoats for some of the more complex issues related to the sustainability of the welfare state in western societies.
he even gives this example: "understanding the ecological health of the black sea ...requires cooperation with the neighboring countries that share these sea basins".
that is why we must reward countries that are making positive developments, such as moldova in the eastern neighbourhood, and make a successful transition to sustainable democracy a priority for the southern neighbourhood.
– madam president, this report, as voted in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, together with the additional amendments tabled for the plenary, aimed to considerably improve the protection of workers and the general public against ionising radiation.
we had a very good result in the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) and managed to obtain a very good legislative resolution that strengthens the commission proposal, improving the definitions and the general protection against exposure to ionising radiation.
we managed to retain the chapter on environmental protection and the change in the legal basis from the euratom treaty to the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
the new environment 2020 plan aims to transition to a resource-efficient, low-carbon economy that protects natural capital.
the new agreement on the reform of the common agricultural policy contains elements that are moving european agriculture in a very good direction in this respect first of all, more equity and more care for the environment.
a 30% share of the amount allocated to each member state under the rural development programme will be mandatory for agri-environment measures.
i would like to highlight in particular the important role that agriculture and forests play in mitigating climate change by absorbing and storing carbon.
ensuring that european agriculture is more sustainable.
they guarantee fresher, healthier food, support the development of local communities and, at the same time, can significantly reduce carbon emissions from food transport.
in conclusion, i would like to reiterate the need to make reducing food waste a priority in the coming period.
for the european union to achieve its objectives under the 'a good life, within the limits of our planet' programme, it is important to strike a fair balance between the need to combat climate change and environmental programmes.
it is also important to maintain a balanced relationship between man and nature, given the pressure on natural resources, the degradation of ecosystems, energy consumption, pollution, waste, health risks or climate change.
i therefore believe that we need to reconcile economic activity and environmental protection around the concept of sustainable development.
through its new environment action programme, the union can send a clear environmental message to its citizens and to the rest of the world, contributing to a new european green order by 2020 that generates 'green' growth and creates jobs.
cooperation on tourism, biodiversity conservation, land use planning, agriculture, forestry, transport, industry, energy can lead to an improvement in the quality of life in this area, but also to prevent depopulation of the carpathian region.
the commission will continue to support the implementation of the european year of the environment and its objectives, in particular the promotion of sustainable development and the promotion of sustainable development in the union.
at the same time, this information, which the research and knowledge process can reveal, is useful for the basis of policies capable of creating the conditions for the sustainable development of european economies and societies, which depend on the marine environment as an economic resource, as a means of transport and international trade, as an important source of public food.
a deeper understanding of the marine environment can provide arguments for the development of the fishing industry as well as for the effective conservation of the biosphere and biodiversity.
the text adopted took into account a large number of requests from the socialist and democratic group, including the creation of new jobs instead of using the funds available to finance the purchase of new boats without a sustainable economic strategy.
the vote is an important step towards the development of a socially and ecologically sustainable european fisheries, which will also allow for a better distribution of european funds and a stricter control of their use.
− i believe that the eu should remain at the forefront of developing technologies for a future green economy, with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 50% by 2030. the warsaw conference (cop 19) will be crucial for the preparation of commitments and the conclusion of a legally binding global agreement by 2015 in this area, placing the responsibility on governments to provide an adequate response to the climate challenges facing humanity.
− climate change is an urgent and potentially irreversible threat to human society, biodiversity and the planet, and therefore solutions must be found at international level.
the current economic crisis clearly demonstrates that only a sustainable economy can ensure long-term prosperity and that climate protection is one of the main pillars of such a sustainable economy.
the challenges of climate change cannot be viewed from a separate perspective but must always be addressed in the context of sustainable development, industrial policy and resource policy.
in this regard, i believe it is essential to explain climate change policies to citizens and change their mindsets.
− i believe that cooperation at regional, national and international level is essential to develop a coherent approach to climate change which threatens the ability of a large number of regions to provide the food their populations need.
the european union needs to promote rural development, sustainable development, the productivity of agricultural systems and food security, especially in developing countries, to reduce their dependence on costly fossil fuel-based agricultural production factors, which will improve the livelihoods of poor rural communities.
beyond the specific interests or problems of the member states or even of the union at this level, it is important to remember that the union is first and foremost a forum for democratic principles and a space for sustainable development.
− the eu revised the european neighbourhood policy in 2011 to provide more support to partner countries, create a deep and sustainable democracy and support inclusive economic development.
− this legislative proposal from the european commission intends to introduce the 7th environment action programme for the period 2013-2020. among other things, it would require third countries to be as involved as the union is in environmental and climate issues.
the eu must better define the conditions for access to its market and not open it up unless third countries protect the environment, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and ensure that european businesses are not disadvantaged by unfair competition.
in my view, the development of environmental civility should be a priority, a factor of progress.
− the environmental challenges we face today (climate change, biodiversity loss, pollution, waste, public health risks, etc.)
i am confident that the new general programme of action of the union will ensure a high level of environmental protection and guarantee quality of life through equitable and sustainable welfare for citizens.
the new eu environmental policy framework proposes an ambitious and realistic approach to environmental problems and also includes solutions to overcome the crisis by promoting green economic growth.
we can and must have economic growth and create new jobs while respecting the environment, using resources efficiently and focusing on innovation and business competitiveness.
the proposals in the new action programme will ensure that european environmental legislation is based on sound scientific knowledge, is more coherent and simpler, and is therefore better accepted and applied.
i also welcome the attention paid to the need and importance of raising awareness, informing and involving european citizens in the european union's environmental policy so that they become actors in the protection, conservation, enhancement and exploitation of natural capital.
− the european union is and wants to remain an important player in environmental protection and as such should send a strong political message to third countries to help create international environmental governance and combat climate change.
the presence of radioactive substances in the environment has consequences for the protection of public health.
in addition to the direct routes of exposure, environmental protection as a whole must be considered in a general, comprehensive and coherent framework.
in this context, i believe that more resources should be allocated to examining in detail the consequences of ionising radiation on both the population and the environment.
last but not least, the union and its member states need to show additional flexibility to deal with the security challenges we face, ranging from the impact of climate change to issues such as food security or energy security.
− the global financial crisis is creating major political, economic, social, cultural and environmental challenges, including domestic issues, for all parties and addressing such challenges requires collective and united eu action and the creation of alliances, in order to promote peace, security, social progress, prosperity, the rule of law and respect for human rights.
in view of the technological developments of recent years, a review of the framework is necessary to further promote an ecosystem of competition and investment for the benefit of final consumers.
reporting for opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
mr president, we have spoken a great deal in recent years about an inclusive economy, a knowledge-based economy, a sustainable economy, we have spoken about fighting unemployment.
reporting for opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
tomorrow we will vote on this new european instrument which will earmark eur 33 billion for investment to improve europe’s transport, energy and telecommunications networks.
as a consequence, there is a real risk of market fragmentation and renationalisation of energy, transport and telecommunications policies if the current state of play is maintained.
that is what parliament has discussed in depth with the council, and i am satisfied we have agreed in broad terms that, with eur 5.8 billion, the european union will make substantial improvements in order to complete the internal energy market, interconnect our member states’ and regional submarkets and ensure security of supply.
to take romania as an example, projects like white stream will allow better interconnection and integration within the european energy market.
in today’s world it is crucial for europe to create an environment defined by competitiveness and smart growth, and to make the eu market attractive to investors once again.
nonetheless, we should appreciate the decision to increase substantially the financing for the transport networks and also the energy networks.
inadequate to the eu's objectives on technological progress, strategic infrastructure, recycled energy, youth employment, education of high common standards, economic, social and territorial cohesion.
the direct costs of corruption for 2010 were estimated at an average of €18 billion in the following areas alone: roads and railways, water and waste, urban construction and utilities, vocational training and research and development, and in 8 member states alone (france, italy, lithuania, the netherlands, poland, romania and spain).
if the eu wants a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy, it must also take into account the personal development of young people, their social integration and their active involvement in society.
− the development of creative and cultural industries contributes to the transformation of local economies, fostering new economic activities, creating new and sustainable jobs and increasing the attractiveness of european regions, cities and rural communities.
− i voted for this report because, like the rapporteur, i consider that the promotion and protection of culture are necessary to strengthen the roots and future of european unity in diversity, pluralism, democracy, peaceful coexistence and to strengthen its social model, social inclusion and sustainable development, intercultural dialogue and openness to third countries and their cultures.
− the inclusion of the cultural dimension in european policies is beneficial for ensuring the preservation of european unity in diversity, pluralism, democracy and peaceful coexistence, but also for strengthening the european social model, innovation, sustainable development and intercultural dialogue.
i consider it useful to establish a constant dialogue both on the ground and online with the beneficiaries of the programme, ordinary citizens and experts, by organising debates on citizenship-related issues, as well as by setting up and implementing cross-border and international cooperation networks, because the european project and the development of europe play an important role in overcoming the crisis and putting europe on a sustainable development path.
− i would like to express my support for the regulation proposing to set up the connecting europe facility, which will finance investments that will help achieve the objective of economic growth and competitiveness in the fields of transport, energy and telecommunications.
through the connecting europe facility, eur 50 billion will be invested over the period 2014-2020, of which eur 31,7 billion will be for the modernisation of transport infrastructure, eur 9,1 billion for the modernisation of energy infrastructure and eur 9,2 billion to support investments in fast and ultra-fast broadband networks and pan-european digital services.
the european union will in the near future have robust, high-performing and reliable transport, energy and telecommunications systems and infrastructures that contribute to the competitiveness of its economy, the dynamism of its economic and industrial sectors and sustainable, balanced and inclusive economic growth.
− i voted in favour of the report because the development of energy and transport interconnections will boost the competitiveness of member states, thus leading to economic growth.
the connecting europe facility will create real 'european added value'; it will help build railways, airports, seaports, modal interconnections, energy networks, pipelines, intelligent transport systems and broadband networks essential for europe; it will help develop connections that are still missing and break down bottlenecks.
without interconnection and integration of all regions in the union, in particular in the areas of transport, energy and telecommunications, the union's economic growth will rapidly plateau, preventing us from achieving the objectives we set out to achieve.
only through smart investment in infrastructure will we be able to move towards sustainable economic growth.
the cef will invest eur 29 billion over the period 2014-2020, of which eur 23 billion for the modernisation of transport infrastructure, eur 5 billion for the modernisation of energy infrastructure and eur 1 billion for investments in fast and ultra-fast broadband networks and pan-european digital services.
the purpose of this convention is to establish a framework for bilateral or multilateral cooperation in the prevention and control of pollution of transboundary watercourses and the rational use of water by the countries belonging to the united nations economic commission for europe.
another objective of the convention is to prevent pollution of these waters.
in the context of the european union's global role model in environmental protection, acceptance of the amendments to the convention is a natural thing.
− the european union has been a party since 1995 to the unece convention on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes, which aims to establish a framework for bilateral or multilateral cooperation for the prevention and control of pollution of transboundary watercourses and for the rational use of water by countries belonging to the united nations economic commission for europe (unece).
the main purpose of this convention is to establish a framework for bilateral or multilateral cooperation in the prevention and control of pollution of transboundary watercourses and in ensuring the rational use of water resources in the countries members of the un economic commission for europe (unece).
as the european union has set itself, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, the development of alternative energy sources, such as that resulting from nuclear fusion, could contribute to achieving such an objective.
looking beyond 2020, further research in this sector could gradually replace traditional energy sources such as oil and natural gas, thus ensuring the energy security of the european union.
i consider it important to achieve the main objective of the iter project to build and operate an experimental fusion reactor because fusion has the potential to make a major contribution, decades from now, to achieving a sustainable and secure supply of electricity to the european union.
the agreement on the establishment of the iter international fusion energy organisation for the joint implementation of the iter project was signed on 21 november 2006 by the european atomic energy community (euratom), the people's republic of china, the republic of india, japan, the republic of korea, the russian federation and the united states of america.
the iter agreement establishes the iter international fusion energy organisation, which has full responsibility for the construction, operation, operation and decommissioning of the iter facilities.
nuclear research is not just about the ability to produce nuclear energy.
existing fusion projects such as joint european torus, which continues to provide the most accurate information on the work done so far in europe on fusion energy, should be further supported.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a council regulation on the european atomic energy community research and training programme (euratom programme) - 2014-2018 supplementing the framework programme for research and innovation horizon 2020. the euratom programme covers research activities in the field of nuclear energy (fusion and fusion) and radiation protection.
i support the overall objective of the euratom programme to improve nuclear safety, physical and radiation protection and to contribute to the long-term decarbonisation of the energy system in conditions of safety, efficiency and security, to contribute to other areas of research related to nuclear research such as medical research, and to secure the long-term future of european nuclear research.
− i voted in favour of the report because romania, as a country producing nuclear energy, has a direct interest in ensuring safety in this area.
i also consider it important to manage spent fuel and radioactive waste responsibly and safely, and to decommission and rehabilitate former nuclear sites and installations in third countries.
the new cohesion fund, worth €66 billion, will continue to support investment, the environment and the trans-european transport network.
through our amendments, the cohesion fund has become truly a green fund, a fund for sustainable development.
the commission proposal supported energy efficiency and investment in renewable energy only for public buildings and smes.
the housing sector accounts for 40% of the total energy consumption of the european union and generates 36% of total carbon dioxide emissions, so we considered it necessary to extend eligibility to private buildings to increase energy efficiency and the share of renewable energy use and to reduce carbon emissions.
we have also achieved this because of the major benefits these measures have in terms of creating green, local jobs, connected to the population's savings, producing energy bill reductions and thus helping our states to achieve the objectives of the 20-20-20 strategy.
we have included other enterprises in the support mechanisms and coordinated the measures in the area of the cohesion fund with the energy efficiency area provided for by the regional development fund, so as to contain as many robust instruments as possible, with identical provisions in the two funds.
the new cohesion fund will thus make eligible a cycle that includes high-efficiency heat and electricity generation, distribution, transport and, finally, energy efficiency in the public and private housing sector, as well as in social housing.
we have intervened in another key sector, water and waste, where we have made eligible investments identified by member states that can go beyond the existing community acquis.
finally, we introduced the eligibility of projects for soil protection and natura 2000, alongside biodiversity protection.
here, thanks to joint efforts, we have introduced similar provisions in the general regulation, the cohesion fund and the connecting europe facility, so that member states can maintain in national envelope until 31 december 2015... (the speaker was interrupted)
madam president, cohesion policy is the union's main engine, contributing to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
mr president, europe's regions are generators of sustainable economic growth and jobs.
the cohesion fund in the new financial programming pays attention to supporting projects in the field of the environment and trans-european networks in the field of transport infrastructure.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states, in particular through the implementation of the energy union strategy.
there are also important changes in the area of investments in the water and waste sector, in urban or rural development.
its contribution to the implementation of projects in the field of the environment and transeuropean networks in the field of transport infrastructure is decisive.
i welcome the fact that some investments have been integrated into the funds, including energy efficiency support for private housing, which should help reduce the bills of our citizens.
a large number of economic sectors, in particular transport, telecommunications, agriculture and energy, are increasingly using satellite navigation systems.
a large number of economic sectors, in particular transport, telecommunications, agriculture and energy, but also emergency services, police, crisis management or border management systems, are increasingly using satellite navigation systems.
the agreement is a step forward in the creation of an independent, accurate and reliable european satellite navigation system, providing practical solutions for european industry, disaster response, transport safety, environmental protection and public services.
i am pleased that the new cap includes a programme for small farmers and that 30% of the rural development funds will be allocated to agri-environmental measures.
i say this all the more because in recent years, in the context of climate change, we have seen extreme events becoming more and more frequent in many member states, including romania.
in the summer of 2012, in romania, due to drought, numerous forest and vegetation fires occurred, many crops were destroyed and the insufficiency of water resources affected the population and the production of hydraulic energy.
− i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the services offered by the galileo programme and the egnos system have a variety of social and economic benefits, such as the development of trans-european networks in the areas of transport, telecommunications or energy infrastructures.
the union's macro-financial assistance should aim to support the restoration of a sustainable external financing situation and thereby support economic and social development.
the union's macro-financial assistance should aim to support the restoration of a sustainable external financing situation for jordan, thereby supporting its economic and social development.
the union's macro-financial assistance should support jordan's commitment to the values it shares with the union, including democracy, the rule of law, good governance, respect for human rights, sustainable development and poverty reduction, as well as its commitment to other principles of open, fair and orderly trade.
− the process of using european funds requires first and foremost a more efficient legislative framework, capable of enabling economic recovery at eu level, without, however, affecting the medium and long-term prospects for sustainable development and growth.
at the same time, i believe that the sustainable development of the union through the use of community funds is not possible without an effective but sufficiently flexible legislative framework and control mechanisms.
local authorities must also play an important role if the objectives of sustainable development and increasing the competitiveness of european economic actors are to be achieved.
− europe is currently facing an economic, financial, social and demographic crisis with effects on energy, transport and logistics policies.
these challenges can also be seen as opportunities for europe, and the reform of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 can make an important contribution to ensuring a sustainable economic recovery and promoting competitiveness, growth and job creation in all regions.
− the debate on how the european social fund is used must take into account the objective of sustainable development, with priority in areas or regions where there are major gaps, with an impact not only on the economic dimension but also on social inclusion.
the esf shall support the following investment priorities: promoting sustainable and quality jobs and supporting labour mobility; promoting social inclusion, combating poverty and any form of discrimination; investing in education, training and vocational training for skills and lifelong learning; increasing the institutional capacity of public authorities and stakeholders and the efficiency of public administration.
investment in it&c, research and innovation, supporting smes in the deployment of low greenhouse gas technologies has the potential to create the jobs that european citizens need, but also to boost member states' economic growth.
as environmental protection and sustainable development are major elements of these priorities, european cohesion policy is the most appropriate means to support the transition to a competitive, low-carbon economy and investment in climate change mitigation and adaptation measures, as well as environmental protection and biodiversity and sustainable urban development.
the allocation of 6% of the available resources to less developed regions for the transition to a low-carbon economy in all sectors cannot be considered sufficient, as it is precisely in these regions that more investment is needed to reduce emissions.
particular attention shall be paid to common indicators for the erdf, which shall be clearly defined and in a manner that allows an objective quantitative assessment of the results achieved on environmental priorities.
with regard to the prevention and management of climate change risks, the focus should not be exclusively on civil protection measures, but more attention should be paid to increasing the prevention capacity and resilience of ecosystems.
on the other hand, the inclusion of the enhanced urban dimension will support the allocation of a 5% part of the erdf resources for the management of cities and the implementation of innovative actions in the field of sustainable urban development.
under its main objective of investing in growth and jobs, erdf support will focus on four priority objectives: research and innovation, information and communication technologies, small and medium-sized enterprises and the promotion of a low-carbon economy.
in particular, i would like to welcome the inclusion in the revision of this fund of specific support for urban areas, by supporting integrated actions in the economic, environmental, climate, demographic and social fields.
some urban areas with economic and social difficulties should benefit from this support in a positive way, particularly 'functional urban areas' where integrated actions for sustainable urban development will be implemented.
the thematic objectives set out in the regulation are also appropriate to current needs at european level, namely energy efficiency and renewable energy, innovative research and support for smes.
the regulation also provides for the following mechanism: - more developed regions whose gdp per capita is more than 90% of the average gdp of the eu-27 will spend at least 80% of resources on energy efficiency and renewable energy, research and development and support for smes, of which 20% will be devoted to energy efficiency and renewable energy.
− the european union, together with the member states, has made very clear commitments to reduce carbon emissions under the europe 2020 strategy.
in these circumstances, i believe that extending the scope of the community framework to support energy efficiency in buildings and the widespread deployment of renewable energy is a measure that helps european states to meet these obligations that are essential to promoting sustainable development.
i therefore welcome the proposal to exploit the untapped potential of the border area, as well as to develop cultural exchanges, integrate cross-border labour markets, support sustainable cross-border transport networks and, in particular, encourage sustainable cross-border tourism in close correlation with the improvement of tourist infrastructure.
the commission has also been involved in a number of projects in the field of sustainable development, including the development of the european union's regional development programmes.
i voted in favour of the report because the cohesion fund plays a major role in achieving sustainable economic growth and, in the current context of crisis, where the socialist government in my country is drastically reducing investment, community money is vital.
i would like to point out that energy efficiency projects in the housing sector will continue to be eligible for funding.
it helps the least developed member states to integrate into the european single market by financing transport infrastructure projects and supporting environmental compliance measures.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states, in particular through the implementation of the energy union strategy.
the cohesion fund, which is mainly used to reduce economic and social disparities and stabilise a country's economy, provides for a list of investment priorities, such as promoting resource efficiency and protecting the environment.
another amendment concerns the admission of all companies, which are not necessarily smes, to energy efficiency and renewable energy projects.
in practice, the possibility to finance energy efficiency projects or the use of energy from renewable sources also in the housing sector gives national authorities more flexibility in setting their funding priorities and meeting their national needs.
in particular, even among the cohesion fund eligible countries, there are major differences between their environmental and transport infrastructures.
given the importance of alignment with the community environmental acquis, investments in the water and waste sectors, as well as support for natura 2000 or green transport will be welcomed.
this regulation establishes a cohesion fund to strengthen the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the union in order to promote sustainable development.
the cohesion fund supports member states whose gni per capita is less than 90% of the eu-27 average to invest in ten-t transport networks and in the environment.
the cohesion fund may also support energy projects, provided that they clearly demonstrate environmental benefits, for example by promoting energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy.
the sustainable development of the union's border regions cannot be achieved without also involving neighbouring third countries.
this will facilitate and stimulate territorial cooperation in areas such as public transport, energy and water supply, health, education and training.
public companies must already achieve this target by 2018. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i believe that if half of the talent pool is not considered for management positions, the process and quality of appointments itself is compromised, which leads to an increase in distrust of the power structures of the business environment and leads to a decrease in the effective utilisation of available human capital.
support for young farmers will also increase, which is essential for the pursuit of sustainable and profitable agricultural activities, especially in member states with a very high share of the population living off agriculture.
i believe that this is both important and necessary in terms of management, farming practices, environmental standards and public health measures.
finally, it is important that a limit has been set for at least 30% of the union rural development budget and 30% of farm subsidies to be dedicated to organic farming, agri-environmental measures and other climate adaptation measures.
− the common agricultural policy has the potential to contribute to the europe 2020 strategy by ensuring sustainable agriculture and by increasing coherence between the common agricultural policy and environmental and public health policies.
− i voted in favour of this report because the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) is a guarantee of sustainable rural development at eu level.
such thematic sub-programmes may relate to, inter alia, young farmers; small farms; mountain areas; short supply chains; women in rural areas; climate change mitigation and adaptation and biodiversity.
− the common organisation of the market in agricultural products must strike a fair and legitimate balance between consumer concerns on the one hand and the imperatives of public health and environmental impact on the other.
the development of the agricultural system must respect the objectives of food security and environmental protection assumed by the european union and the member states.
i would like to draw attention to the provisions underlining the importance of encouraging the consumption of fruit, vegetables and milk and milk products by pupils, with a view to increasing the proportion of these products in the diets of children in the formative stage of their eating habits in a sustainable way.
i would like to stress the impact of direct aid on increasing the profitability and competitiveness of small farms, and their exemption from environmental rules is welcome for my country.
last but not least, i believe that the adoption of measures leading to environmental protection is a legitimate move by the european authorities.
moreover, the central and western pacific ocean accounts for almost 60% of the world's tuna catches and the sustainable management of fisheries in this region is therefore of global importance.
smes can be the active principle for green and sustainable economic growth.
on the other hand, increasing the efficiency of renewable energy sources can make this field more economically attractive, while also combating climate change, reducing our dependence on fossil fuels and promoting a low-carbon economy.
i consider horizon 2020 to be a key programme that could contribute to further reducing emissions of gases and particulates harmful to the environment and health, without being a burden for industries or member states.
they also agree with the european union's position to take a leading role in taking measures to prevent, combat and improve the environment.
but i want the european union to be just one step ahead of the other countries outside the european union, and not more steps, to give industry, agriculture, other economic sectors the time to adapt to a low-carbon economy.
clearly there is an understanding that dg environment and dg climate action will continue to provide political guidance.
− research and innovation are the main means of progressing towards a knowledge-based economy, which is provided for in the europe 2020 strategy and which will enable it to guarantee more balanced, diversified and sustainable growth.
horizon 2020 is a very promising programme, funding research in areas that are 21st century challenges, such as health, the green economy, energy efficiency or smart transport.
we need an eit that encourages excellence in innovation, but above all that provides new solutions to the major challenges we face: climate change, renewable energy or information technology.
this agenda puts innovation based on societal challenges at the heart of the eit, thus encouraging open innovation models to provide answers in times of crisis, as attracting young people to new types of jobs, strengthening support to smes and, not least, providing sustainable development solutions are key.
the eit will contribute to the achievement of a sustainable and competitive economic model and to the creation and maintenance of future jobs.
the eit was established to contribute to sustainable economic growth and competitiveness by enhancing the innovation capacity of the union and its member states.
in 2010, the kics were established: sustainable energy (kic innoenergy), adaptation to and mitigation of climate change (climatekic) and the information and communication society of the future (eit ict labs).
− employment and value-added creation, alongside the development of innovation capacity, to provide sustainable and effective solutions to societal challenges, such as those identified in horizon 2020, are the means the eu has and must use to emerge from the multiple types of crisis it is currently facing.
the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) was established by regulation (ec) no 294/2008 with the objective of contributing to sustainable economic growth and competitiveness by strengthening the innovation capacity of the eu and its member states.
they are at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy and will play an important role in achieving its objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
i support the general objectives of the cosme programme of: - strengthening the competitiveness and sustainability of enterprises in the union, in particular smes; - encouraging an entrepreneurial culture and promoting the creation and development of smes.
the following indicative amounts shall be allocated under the financial envelope of the cosme programme: 21,5% of the value of the financial envelope to improve market access, in particular within the union but also worldwide; 11% to improve the framework conditions for the competitiveness and sustainability of union enterprises, in particular smes, including in the tourism sector; and 2,5% to promote entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial culture.
the 'societal challenges' component will contribute to: - improving health and well-being throughout life for all; - ensuring sufficient quantities of healthy and quality food; - moving towards a reliable, accessible, sustainable and competitive energy system; - a resource-efficient, climate-friendly european transport system; - an economy and society in which resources - and water - are used efficiently and are resilient to climate change.
− the european union's policy on the environment and climate change has improved significantly in recent years, reflected in the actual improvement in the state of the environment in the eu.
however, at european level, there are still many challenges to be addressed, which is why i welcome the establishment of the special funding programme for environment and climate policies life.
it is intended to act as a catalyst for change in policy development and implementation by providing and disseminating solutions and best practices to achieve environmental and climate objectives.
i am confident that this programme will also successfully address some of the key challenges facing the union: halting and reversing the decline in biodiversity, improving resource efficiency, and addressing environmental and health concerns.
− the risks associated with environmental degradation and climate change are some of the most profound and very long-term challenges facing the european union today.
combating climate change and strengthening the union's resilience to the associated risks must be a key priority of our political efforts.
as the only separate union financial instrument targeting these areas, it has proven over the years to be an indispensable part of the union's effort to combat climate change and environmental degradation.
− over the past 20 years, life has achieved considerable success as a means of addressing the environmental and climate challenges facing european citizens.
the commission's proposed life share of the general eu budget of 0,3% is disproportionately low in relation to the challenges and opportunities of the transition to a sustainable, low-carbon, resource-efficient and biodiverse society.
in its resolution on the eu biodiversity strategy, the european parliament expressed its disagreement with the proposed funding for the new life programme and considered that the challenges addressed in the biodiversity and nature conservation plan require a substantial increase in the funding allocated to the life programme.
today's vote in favour of an adequate budget for the life programme is a strong signal that the eu is serious about its environmental and climate commitments.
i believe that european solidarity must play an important role in supporting member states and regions with a low project selection rate in trying to achieve a higher quality of environmental projects and thus increase the absorption rate of funds.
− i believe that the commission should propose a method for monitoring the long-term success of projects, especially in the field of nature and biodiversity.
− i voted for the life programme in support of vital projects to protect the environment and to assist the implementation of eu legislation.
i welcome the co-financing of projects to improve nature protection, waste management, and water and air quality, as this should lead to direct and long-lasting positive impacts on human health.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation establishing a programme for environment and climate policy (life) because the programme will contribute to the achievement of a low-carbon, resource-efficient and climate-resilient economy.
the life programme has two sub-programmes with three priority areas each: -the environment sub-programme with the priority areas: environment and resource efficiency; nature and biodiversity; environmental governance and information.
- and the sub-programme for climate policy with the priority areas of climate change mitigation; adaptation to climate change; climate governance and information.
the financial envelope for the implementation of the life programme for the period 2014-2020 shall be eur 3 456 655 000 in current prices, broken down as follows: - eur 2 592 491 250 shall be allocated to the sub-programme for environment; - eur 864 163 750 shall be allocated to the sub-programme for climate policy.
the specific objectives are to support customs authorities in protecting the financial and economic interests of the union and the member states, including the fight against fraud and the protection of intellectual property rights, to enhance safety and security, to protect citizens and the environment, to improve the administrative capacity of customs authorities and to strengthen the competitiveness of european businesses.
that system is essential to ensure the safety and soundness of the insurance sector so that it can provide sustainable insurance products and support the real economy by encouraging long-term investment and added stability.
i attach particular importance to europe's energy supply and diversified and sustainable access to energy resources, as well as to energy efficiency in the field of defence.
the working environment for the construction and strengthening of the infrastructure needed to host the 2022 fifa world cup lacks minimum safety standards.
it is very important that we eliminate those fishing gear that are destructive to the aquatic environment and promote sustainable fishing.
you asked the commission to negotiate a new agreement, and of course you put conditions on these new negotiations: economic profitability, environmental sustainability and compliance with international law.
this agreement is also environmentally sustainable: the protocol contains clear legal obligations for sustainable exploitation, based on scientific assessment, providing certainty that only the surplus will be fished.
secondly, there is the question of the principle of sustainability, which becomes an essential condition for the activity envisaged.
the recent typhoon that caused widespread disaster in the philippines is a tragic reminder of the increased incidence of extreme weather events caused by climate change.
the previous proposal did not present a cost-benefit advantage nor did it provide a guarantee for the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks.
the current protocol meets the austerity conditions we all have agreed to, with a lower financial contribution than under the previous protocol, and the criteria for the sustainable exploitation of resources.
it is in the interest of the union to implement the partnership agreement by means of a protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution thereof and defining the conditions for the promotion of responsible and sustainable fishing in the fishing zone of the kingdom of morocco.
− convention no 170 on chemicals, adopted on 25 june 1990 at the 77th session of the international labour conference, entered into force on 4 november 1993. the aim of the convention is to prevent and reduce occupational diseases and accidents caused by chemicals, but the convention will also improve the protection of people and the environment.
− i consider this convention to be an important instrument for the protection of workers, the environment and society in general, with a view to ensuring health and safety at work.
the extension of the existing autonomous tariff quotas for a further period of 7 years is therefore a natural step, offering economic operators a long-term perspective to reach a level of activity that would allow the stabilisation of the economic and social environment on the islands.
the divestments in the vestas group, which is active in the wind turbine manufacturing sector, are linked to major changes in the structure of world trade generated by globalisation, which are linked to stagnating demand for wind turbine installations in europe and the development of the market in asia, the penetration of the european market by chinese wind turbine manufacturers offering more competitive prices and the significant reduction of the eu market share in terms of total capacity from 66% in 2006 to 27,5% in 2012. i believe that the eu wind energy market will continue to grow and generate increased demand for european wind turbine manufacturers and associated industries through the ongoing promotion of renewable energy at union level.
in this context, we welcome the allocation of some eur 3.7 billion for the global monitoring programme for environment and safety, called 'copernicus'.
new satellite navigation applications are enhancing safety, efficiency and reliability in the aviation, maritime, road and agricultural, road safety, toll collection, traffic and parking management, fleet management, emergency calls, cargo tracking and monitoring, online booking, ship safety, digital tachographs, animal transport and sustainable land.
we call on the commission to take the lead in promoting standards and specifications in support of privacy-friendly, reliable, highly interoperable, secure and energy-efficient cloud services as an integral part of a future union industrial policy.
i consider that the completion of the internal market is a continuous process, best facilitated by improving regulation in individual national markets, and the most robust and sustainable way to achieve this (ensuring that regulatory decisions are considered legitimate within national markets) is through the 'bottom-up' approach currently represented by berec.
sustainable exploitation of resources cannot be achieved without clear measures to reduce the environmental impact of fishing activities.
the promotion of the coastal and small fleet supports such measures because of the benefits to the local community and the environment.
it is specified that a postponement to a later date (at the latest by 2020) is only allowed if the economic and social sustainability of the fleets concerned is seriously affected.
in future, therefore, all stocks must be managed on the basis of the principle of maximum sustainable yield.
these criteria must be of an environmental, social and economic nature.
this can benefit those fleet segments that demonstrate that they can create above average jobs and that they affect the environment below average.
since fish stocks are common resources, their sustainable and efficient exploitation can in certain cases be better achieved by organisations composed of members from different member states and regions.
addressing the vulnerability of deep-sea stocks with caution, as well as banning certain fishing methods that could destroy the ecosystems in which they operate, are measures that will considerably reduce the impact of fishing on the environment.
i voted in favour of this report because it fully supports the commission's proposal which has the potential to ensure the sustainability of both commercially exploited and accidentally caught deep-sea species and to prevent significant adverse effects on vulnerable marine ecosystems.
the draft report aims to strengthen the commission's proposal in the following key areas, among which i would like to mention: identifying deep-sea species and the most vulnerable species; identifying and protecting vulnerable marine ecosystems; establishing an annual assessment of fleet capacity by member states; the obligation to carry out an impact assessment before issuing or renewing fishing authorisations for deep-sea gears; financial assistance for the transition to more sustainable fishing gear.
the objectives of the adopted regulation are: - to ensure the sustainable management and exploitation of deep-sea species, while reducing the impact of deep-sea fishing activities on the marine environment; - prevent significant adverse effects on vulnerable marine ecosystems and ensure the long-term conservation of deep-sea fish stocks; - improve scientific knowledge of deep-sea species and their habitats; - implement technical measures on fisheries management recommended by the north east atlantic fisheries commission (neafc).
- to minimise and, where possible, prevent by-catches; - apply prudential and ecosystem-based approaches to fisheries management and ensure that the measures taken by the union for the sustainable management of deep-sea fish stocks are in line with the resolutions adopted by the united nations general assembly, in particular resolutions 61/105 and 64/72.
− the number and severity of natural and man-made disasters have increased significantly in recent years and climate change is expected to trigger major disasters in the future.
climate change is causing a series of natural disasters that cannot be identified with precision.
the protection to be provided by the union mechanism shall cover in the first place persons, but also the environment and tangible property, including cultural heritage, against: - all types of natural and man-made disasters, including the consequences of terrorist acts; - technological, radiological or environmental disasters; - marine pollution and acute health emergencies occurring within or outside the union.
the loss of credibility of market participants directly affects the european union's sustainable growth strategy, calling into question the union's ability to achieve its proposed 2020 targets.
this regulation is part of the union's common commercial policy, which must respect the objectives of the union's development cooperation policy as set out in article 208 of the treaty, in particular the eradication of poverty and the promotion of sustainable development and good governance in developing countries.
this regulation recognises the right of small farmers and rural workers to a decent income and to a safe and healthy working environment and considers respect for that right to be fundamental to the achievement of the general objectives of granting trade preferences to developing countries and in particular to the least developed countries.
− the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) is a key tool for reducing eu industrial emissions in a cost-effective way.
since the start of the second marketing phase in 2008, emissions have been reduced by more than 10%.
because emissions allowances are being supplied in quantities far in excess of demand, the price of carbon has decreased.
this decrease in the carbon price has become a factor in reducing incentives for investment in low-carbon technologies and increasing the risk of the eu being stuck in high-carbon infrastructure.
− the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) established by directive 2003/87/ec has created the world's first major carbon market and sets a price for carbon at eu level.
the decision amending directive 2003/87/ec provides that where an assessment of individual industrial sectors indicates that no significant impact on sectors or subsectors exposed to a significant risk of carbon leakage is foreseen, the commission may, in exceptional circumstances, adapt the calendar for the period referred to in article 13 (1) from 1 january 2013 in order to ensure the proper functioning of the market.
i am against arbitrary and unpredictable interventions in the carbon market because i believe that they can negatively affect both the carbon market and the industry.
i also believe that artificially raising the price of carbon will cause electricity prices to rise, carbon dioxide emissions to shift, and unemployment to rise.
that is why i did not support the legislative resolution on the proposal for a decision amending directive 2003/87/ec by clarifying the provisions on the greenhouse gas emission allowance auction timetable.
i am of the opinion that the council regulation does not take into account the commission communication on 'a resource efficient europe', namely the transformation of the eu economy into a 'circular economy', based on a recycling society, with the aim of reducing waste generation and using waste as a resource.
the commission has also concluded that the proposed criteria for the elimination of waste paper are not sufficient to ensure the recycling of paper.
recycling brings benefits both economically and socially, and also for improving the quality of life through a clean environment.
− i supported the european parliament resolution opposing the adoption of the council regulation on the definition of the criteria for determining whether recovered paper is no longer waste pursuant to article 6 (1) of the waste directive 2008/98/ec.
the commission has not correctly assessed the impact of the proposed regulation on paper recycling, the waste paper value chain, waste paper shipments and the overall environmental effects of the draft regulation.
i consider that stimulating the growth of global trade in this paper which is claimed to 'not fall within the waste category' by circumventing environmental and health protection guarantees would not only have an additional negative impact on the environment during transport, but could also lead to a decrease in the recycling rate of paper in europe due to the reduced availability of waste paper, so that the paper producer may have to substitute the product at least partially by increasing the production of virgin fibres in europe, which implies higher energy consumption and higher co2 emissions, which would again contravene the criterion of avoiding harmful effects on the global environment.
their ability to adapt to the rapidly changing economic environment, by saving and preventing the decline of assets, is a crucial point that, if properly implemented on the ground in conjunction with local authorities, could have concrete positive effects.
the market and consumers need regulation that is coordinated throughout the various sectors impacting on the industry, such as energy, climate and professional training.
− in an increasingly globalised world, europe must promote new european industrial policies, of which a sustainable automotive industry is an important component.
− i voted in favour of the cars 2020 resolution: towards a strong, competitive and sustainable motor industry in europe because it supports the commission's action plan to put the automotive industry at the heart of economic growth.
i support the commission's initiative to support the competitiveness and sustainability of the motor vehicle sector because i am convinced of the need for a joint action plan to relaunch the european automotive industry.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on cars 2020: towards a strong, competitive and sustainable motor industry in europe.
i believe it is essential to maintain and strengthen coherent and dynamic research, manufacturing, production, value and innovation chains in the eu geared towards the production of sustainable cars.
we also call on the commission to develop cross-cutting roadmaps covering the development of the energy sector, the transport sector and the ict sector.
did europe not understand that security equals energy?
as a result of our negotiations we will have a simplified regulatory environment, and will have provided for easier access to union assistance by partner countries and regions, civil society organisations, smes as well as other stakeholders.
the package will meet immediate, urgent and unforeseen needs as well as more strategic, long-term imperatives, enhancing partner countries’ ownership of their development processes and ensuring the sustainability of eu external aid.
we have been working in a new institutional environment, yet our keen sense of responsibility, as a global player, for the people in our partner countries who need our help and to the european citizens we represent, along with a genuine desire to negotiate and compromise, have combined to produce a result we can all welcome.
however, i remain confident that the development cooperation instrument will be crucial in translating our differentiation principle into effective, targeted aid for those countries, or those people, which need it most, while always remembering our international commitments on environment and climate change.
development cooperation that is more than capable of enabling us to win the fight against poverty – first in our on-going pursuit of the mdgs and then in the global post-2015 efforts to deliver poverty eradication and sustainable development with a view to achieving a decent life for all people.
under the new approach we will increase resources to those partners that are showing clear progress on reforms towards deep and sustainable democracy and respect for human rights, and i thank parliament for its continued commitment to this element.
we will continue supporting partner countries by promoting respect for human rights and the rule of law, sustainable and inclusive growth, progressive integration in the european unionʼs internal markets, mobility and people-to-people contacts, and regional integration.
since 2007, the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) has been demonstrating its solidarity with european workers affected by redundancies, contributing to sustainable and economic growth and sustainable employment.
at the same time, the application of the egf in regions with high rates of youth unemployment, to young people who are not in employment and who are not in education or training, is a solidarity commitment to ensure the sustainable development of the regions.
the conclusion of the protocol will allow for the gradual opening up or enhanced participation of armenia in certain union programmes, providing an opportunity to further promote cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links, intensifying people-to-people contacts and sectoral cooperation, in addition to strengthening political relations through the eastern partnership and the conclusion of the association agreement.
it is not normal that in times of crisis we should redouble our efforts and thus waste a lot of money unnecessarily.
in the same context, budgetary considerations should also strike the right balance to better align the eu's internal policy objectives with its external objectives, by streamlining initiatives such as the europe 2020 strategy or those in the field of democracy, the rule of law, human rights, entrepreneurship and environmental protection.
energy projects and projects aimed at combating discrimination should also not be neglected.
within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy, the union offers neighbouring countries a privileged relationship based on a mutual commitment to respect and promote the values of democracy and human rights, the rule of law, good governance, employment, human capital development, social protection and the principles of the market economy and sustainable development, with a particular focus on strengthening civil society.
as part of this policy, the union offers its neighbours a privileged relationship based on a common commitment to the values of democracy, respect for human rights, the rule of law and good governance, as well as the principles of a market economy and sustainable and inclusive development.
and as political and administrative reform goes hand in hand with economic development, i welcome funding for the thematic priorities on employment, including youth employment, fostering competitiveness and strengthening the business environment.
the positive vote on this instrument will allow the union's development cooperation policy to focus on human development, particularly in the areas of health and education, as well as on sustainable development and food security.
finally, i am pleased that this new instrument of the union's development cooperation policy also has as its main objective the sustainable support of organisations representing civil society.
as regards eligibility, i welcome actions related to the promotion of sustainable economic, social and environmental development, including specific allocations for environmental and climate change issues.
to create a competitive and sustainable economy, we must first encourage the development of the real economy, smes.
alpine pastureland and areas within the outermost regions producing milk require specific investments and measures to maintain or recreate an appropriate environment for the production, processing and marketing of milk.
we also call on member states to use short supply chains in the 'milk in schools' programme to encourage local milk production and limit carbon emissions from transport.
preventing poverty, epidemics and encouraging the development of a high-performing education system are priorities for ensuring a stable climate, regardless of the country.
climate change is causing increasingly severe events, increasing the costs of disasters and creating a number of other problems, such as extreme poverty, food insecurity and malnutrition.
the union's long-term approach to resilience should target ecosystem damage, as some natural disasters could be prevented or reduced through the proper functioning of the ecosystem.
we call on the eu, its member states and partner country governments to improve and develop strategies for disaster risk reduction in developing countries by implementing risk assessment programmes and strengthening early warning systems, by strengthening disaster preparedness, to have an effective response at all levels, and by supporting sustainable development plans in partner countries.
we also underline the need to address the underlying causes of persistent food insecurity in certain regions, namely reduced access to appropriate basic services and education, acute poverty, inadequate support for small-scale agriculture and animal husbandry, problems of access to land, environmental degradation, rapid population growth, falling markets, declining per capita food production and poor governance.
public authorities have a responsibility to set up specialised public services to ensure an adapted environment for women and girls with disabilities so that they can fully assume their rights and responsibilities.
i think it is important that agriculture is included in the discussions on greenhouse gas emissions or water resources, given that it is one of the areas most involved in combating or protecting them.
− i voted in favour of this report because a clean and healthy environment is a necessary condition for maintaining prosperity and a high quality of life in europe, but equally important are the strength and competitiveness of the economy.
eco-innovation creates clear opportunities for new niche businesses, giving smes, start-ups, freelancers and entrepreneurs the chance to benefit from new business models, and revitalizes traditional economic sectors, giving them the opportunity to further green existing jobs by adapting them to sustainable and resource-efficient production and working methods.
− i believe that market-based environmental policy can become the engine of growth and employment in all sectors of the economy, and i believe that a set of predictable and investment-friendly framework conditions is the basis that will enable innovative companies to take full advantage of these opportunities, for the benefit of the environment and workers.
- i voted for the resolution on 'eco-innovation - jobs and growth through environmental policy'.
eco-innovation also revitalises traditional economic sectors, giving them the opportunity to green existing jobs by adapting them to sustainable and resource-efficient production and working methods.
− i therefore support this report and the sustainable development goals proposed by the commission.
they will foster the optimal development of all sea-related activities in a sustainable way.
but this fragile environment needs to be protected and conserved so that future generations can enjoy its beauty and richness.
the high and rapidly increasing demand for maritime space for various purposes (such as renewable energy installations, oil and gas exploration and exploitation, maritime navigation and fishing, ecosystem and biodiversity conservation, raw material extraction, tourism and aquaculture installations) and the multiple pressures on coastal resources require an integrated approach to coastal zone planning and management.
maritime and coastal activities require that maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal zone management strategies be coordinated, interconnected or integrated, in order to ensure the sustainable use of maritime space and the management of coastal zones, taking into account social, economic and environmental factors and objectives.
therefore, transitional periods and mechanisms are necessary, in particular as regards the provisions on environmental protection.
− i voted to amend certain directives in the fields of environment, agriculture, social policy and public health as a result of the change in mayotte's status in relation to the eu.
since mayotte will become an outermost region as from 1 january 2014, the legal status of mayotte is amended so that union law applies to mayotte as from 1 january 2014. it is therefore necessary to provide for specific measures justified by the particular structural, social, environmental and economic situation of mayotte.
− european capitals of culture are successful in many ways: they confer international prestige, motivate authorities to implement sustainable development strategies, help the creative and cultural sectors, stimulate long-term tourism and facilitate the involvement of more categories of citizens in cultural activities.
it is a value-creating, socially and socially cohesive force that stimulates the development of local sustainable development strategies by mobilising and coordinating the activities of citizens, local authorities and ngos.
it is important that the cities holding the title develop links between their cultural and creative sectors on the one hand and sectors such as education, research, the environment, urban development or cultural tourism on the other.
as regards fisheries, the rules applicable in the region must take account of the objectives of the new common fisheries policy, namely sustainable exploitation, which allows for the sustainable and intelligent use of resources.
in this regard, the prohibition of the use of purse seine nets for bluefin tuna and similar species within the 24 mile zone from the island baselines is a necessary measure to protect the sensitive ecological and biological situation in the waters surrounding mayotte.
as regards the regulation on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy, specific measures should be introduced as regards the vessel register and the access regime.
in order to protect the sensitive ecological and biological situation in the waters surrounding mayotte and to protect the local economy of mayotte, given its structural, social and economic situation, it is necessary that certain fishing activities in those waters be limited to vessels registered in the ports of that island.
by offering preferential access to the eu market, the eu's generalised system of preferences (gsp) has, since 1971, supported developing countries in their efforts to reduce poverty and promote good governance and sustainable development, helping them to generate additional revenues through international trade.
finally, i welcome the fact that this resolution calls on the commission to carry out a necessary periodic external evaluation of the impact of eu funding on roma social inclusion, and to identify good practices and projects implemented with the help of eu funds and to ensure their long-term sustainability.
the eu should continue its involvement in the energy community, which should result in the full inclusion of ukraine in the eu internal energy market.
we believe that the outcome and the general context of the vilnius summit underline the need for the eu to develop a more strategic and flexible policy to support the european option of its eastern partners, using all the instruments at its disposal, such as macroeconomic assistance, trade relaxation, projects to strengthen energy security and economic modernisation, and the swift implementation of visa liberalisation, in line with european values and interests.
we urge the government to develop policies on renewable energy, to deal more effectively with the problem of waste management and to develop environmentally sustainable tourism.
we call for the establishment of employment and social indicators to complement fiscal and macroeconomic indicators, and for the preparation of reports on the state of structural reforms, in order to ensure an adequate and efficient level of social investment and, therefore, the sustainability of the european social model of a european social union in the long term.
whether we're talking about intensive land use and urban development or road and energy infrastructure, natural habitats and biodiversity are inevitably suffering.
moreover, we're talking about investments that benefit the environment, the economy, and create new jobs.
this will help to reduce the negative impact of grey infrastructure development on biodiversity.
− i believe that the development of eco-infrastructures must be supported by sound data and in-depth knowledge, and i encourage the commission, in collaboration with the european environment agency, member states and other stakeholders, to ensure that the union strengthens its capacity for mapping and evaluating ecosystems and associated ecosystem services and that this information and knowledge is taken into account appropriately, including in the planning and implementation of eu co-funded projects.
they can provide services such as air filtration, temperature control and mitigation of 'heat island' effects, recreation areas, flood protection, rainwater collection and flood prevention, groundwater repair, restoring or halting biodiversity loss, mitigating extreme weather events and their effects, improving citizens' health and improving the overall quality of life, including by providing accessible and affordable areas for physical activities.
also, reducing risks associated with natural disasters such as floods or forest fires is a positive outcome of creating or rebuilding ecological infrastructures, such as natural floodplains, forested areas, wetlands, etc., which can increase resilience to disasters and contribute to adaptation to climate change, significantly reducing the costs imposed on society.
− i voted in favour of this report and believe that a low inflation environment is the best contribution monetary policy can make to creating favourable conditions for growth.
i believe that any revenue gains would give member states a better chance to balance their budgets and increase their disposable income to promote investment, growth and employment, which are crucial factors in a sustainable eu exit strategy.