it is therefore necessary to create the organisational and material conditions for the effective reorganisation and revitalisation of the urban environment in order to meet the current needs of the population.
this means counting on functional conversions of buildings, improvements in their energy efficiency, improvements in the transport services of cities and investments in the elimination of pollution and noise.
european energy policy is one of the key sectors of the european economy.
this is in line with the principle of solidarity between member states, as enshrined in the treaty of lisbon, and in line with the policy to combat energy poverty in the less developed regions of the european union and in the most vulnerable households.
a distinction should be made between the cohesion policy objectives contributing to the europe 2020 strategy and the broader eu energy policy objectives.
the urban environment provides excellent conditions for science and technology, culture and innovation.
population concentration brings with it specific economic, social and environmental challenges, which we can respond to with appropriate cohesion policy instruments, thus contributing to a faster resolution of the most pressing problems of cities and their inhabitants.
such problems clearly include social exclusion, environmental pollution, energy inefficiency, unemployment and the management of migration flows.
i believe that a new approach to urban development based on a better understanding of the economic, social and environmental needs of the population is needed, and this should be reflected in spatial planning and subsequent project adoption.
from a long-term health and environmental perspective, cities clearly need sufficient green public spaces for sport and leisure activities, while also combating excessive traffic pollution and noise.
the urban environment provides excellent conditions for science and technology, culture and innovation.
the european model of sustainable urban development is under threat.
employment and social policies are important for sustainable and socially balanced territorial development and make a significant contribution to reducing regional disparities and improving the well-being of all citizens, while providing equal opportunities for all citizens.
the development of cooperation between urban and rural areas will, for example, lead to the creation of integrated geographical aggregates that will respond comprehensively to social challenges such as unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, but also to many environmental challenges.
a sustainable solution to the region's many conflicts can only succeed if it is based on mutual respect.
it is also important to start cooperation between states for sustainable development.
genetic resources are of particular importance for sustainable agriculture and food security.
the loss of genetic diversity, which occurs as part of the process of biodiversity degradation, is therefore a key challenge for humanity.
in addition, genetic resources from countries with a high biodiversity contribute significantly to pharmaceutical research and development.
in order to protect biodiversity and intellectual property in relation to genetic resources, i consider it a priority to define the concept of biopiracy clearly and on the basis of comprehensive analyses, so that we can proceed to suppress it.
the restoration of the union's financial credibility requires, in particular, the achievement of a sustainable balance of payments, sound public finances in its member states and the restoration of economic growth.
however, achieving a sustainable balance of payments, sound public finances and a return to economic growth are the only way out of this situation.
expenditure-saving measures are needed to restore financial stability, such as limiting low or questionable return investments, simplifying public administration and reducing its operating costs, and reforming and modernising pension systems to achieve their financial sustainability.
so we should be fully committed and use all our resources to tackle tax discipline, tax evasion in tax havens and tackle the grey economy at every turn, while not forgetting the other resources that are in capital gains, excise duties, pollution taxes and property taxes.
i recognise the need for these measures, which are designed to ensure that fish stocks are fished in a sustainable way and that their ecosystems are preserved.
i think that it is important that the cohesion policy supports the new eu energy priorities in regions.
it is also my opinion that such energy projects would greatly contribute to regional development and to the creation of more jobs.
in this respect, it is important that more investment goes not just to the centralised energy sources but also to other forms of energy efficiency and energy infrastructure.
− i attach great importance to the european union's energy policy.
we need to link cohesion policy with the europe 2020 objectives and flagship initiatives in order to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to support the shift towards a low-carbon and energy-efficient economy in all sectors.
in order to achieve these short- and long-term objectives, the structural funds and the cohesion fund must not be forgotten, in line with the principle of solidarity between member states enshrined in the treaty of lisbon and in the fight against energy poverty in the eu's less developed regions and in the most vulnerable households.
if the blocks and energy resources remained in the hands of the state, the 36% cheaper electricity would be the brightest stimulus for employment growth and job creation.
i want us to be fair here in the ep, and that is why i am pushing for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth that takes into account local specificities and conditions that are best suited to local and regional conditions and resources.
along with the u.s. and on u.n. soil, but with far more energy and ingenuity, as well as deals with russia.
promoting the consistent application of human rights, in particular women's rights or the right to freedom of religion, is an important challenge for our greater engagement in a still newly formed, not very stable democratic environment.
while temporary agreements were approved at national level, countries gained duty-free and quota-free access for goods to eu markets through the market access regulation of 1 january 2008. i am convinced that the signing of the interim epa is a necessary step towards achieving sustainable growth in the region and underlines the importance of continuing negotiations with a view to achieving a full-fledged agreement that promotes trade and investment growth and regional integration in the southern and eastern africa region.
the priority remains to stimulate smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and the transition to a knowledge-based and greener economy without distorting fair competition between individual businesses in different member states.
particular attention should be paid to aligning competition policy with the policy of transforming european agriculture, especially in the field of renewable resources and innovative green solutions.
it is the main investment instrument for the convergence and sustainable development of the european union.
if we create a good and healthy business environment in the union, where even small businesses can generate stable returns, then financial institutions will not be afraid to lend their money to such entrepreneurs.
the high degree of urbanisation in europe means that measures for active and healthy ageing must be oriented towards the urban environment.
it means for us to protect parks and green spaces in cities so that developers do not, for the sake of quick profit, destroy those spaces where the elderly and children can be stimulated outdoors in an open environment.
in addition to the keywords mentioned by mr tajani, namely competitiveness, growth and job creation, two other aspects should be highlighted: environmental protection and climate change.
in many cases, it may be that only minor administrative changes in the definition of limits or quotas would be sufficient to enable our producers to maintain the profitability of their production even in our european legislative environment.
the pace of consolidation must be adapted to each country according to its fiscal space in order to balance potential negative impacts on growth and employment and risks to debt sustainability, and must be conducted in a growth-friendly manner.
for 2013, national and european efforts should focus on five priorities:- fiscal consolidation to support growth- restoring normal lending to the economy- promoting growth and competitiveness- tackling unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis- modernising public administration
today we are talking about corporate social responsibility, about their transparent behaviour, and about the path to sustainable and inclusive regeneration.
we are perhaps the most creative community in the world in creating new rules, implementing and prescribing new administrative procedures, and in our over-concentration we somehow miss the fact that even our stable employers are not willing to stay in such an environment any longer and are gradually shifting their capacities to asia, south america and russia.
according to environmental experts, noise levels in cities, where up to 80 percent of our population live, are unsustainably high.
the europe 2020 strategy proposed by the european commission will enable the union to steer its economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, accompanied by high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion.
− council regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 established a community system for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy.
the common fisheries policy should ensure that fishing and aquaculture activities contribute to sustainable environmental, economic and social conditions in the long term.
at the 2002 world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg, the union and its member states committed themselves to act to prevent the continued decline of many fish stocks.
the union should therefore improve its common fisheries policy to ensure that, as a matter of priority, the levels of exploitation of marine biological resources are restored and maintained at levels capable of producing the maximum sustainable yield from the stocks fished by 2015. it is important that the management of the common fisheries policy be guided by the principles of good governance.
− the existing common fisheries policy is no longer sustainable.
i therefore firmly believe that by reforming the common fisheries policy and establishing certain common principles not only within europe but also outside eu waters, we will ensure that overfishing is stopped, fish stocks are restored and the negative impacts on the marine environment are minimised.
overfishing damages the marine environment and threatens the viability of communities dependent on fishing.
the protection of public health, the environment and the treaty on the functioning of the european union enshrine the protection of human health, which applies to everyone without exception and allows both noise levels and the impact on human health to be reduced.
− the increasing number of cars is one of the most common sources of noise pollution.
the report, which aims to reduce the occurrence of environmental noise and harmonise maximum european limits, will bring about positive changes in the protection of citizens' health and the environment.
different approval requirements exist for co2 and pollutant emissions from vehicles, which in many cases conflict with measures taken to reduce noise levels.
this may result in an increase in the weight of the vehicles, which may result in higher co2 emissions.
the new regulation balances road safety, environmental protection and, not least, car-friendly provisions.
let us be the ones to give our voice not only to a healthier environment, but also to a longer and more meaningful life for the people of europe.
while most member states have had to take extensive measures to reduce debt and budget deficits to achieve sustainable public finances, some have been hit so severely that they have had to seek assistance under eu financial support mechanisms.
most member states have been forced to take far-reaching measures to reduce debt levels and budget deficits in order to put public finances back on a sustainable path, but some countries have been hit by the crisis to the extent that they have had to turn to eu financial support mechanisms for assistance.
technical protection measures are the rules that fishermen throughout the european union must follow on a daily basis when they go on a fishing expedition to ensure that the way and place of fishing is carried out in a sustainable manner.
the measures relate to minimum landings, minimum mesh sizes, zones and closed seasons, by-catch limits, criteria for the use of more selective fishing gear and measures to protect the marine environment and therefore have a significant impact on the achievement of the objectives of the common fisheries policy.
at the upcoming negotiations of the conference of the parties to the un framework convention on climate change later this year, we should strive to move forward with the implementation of our modest targets.
over-exploitation of wild species, illegal trade in wild animals and plants, destruction of habitats, climate change and human consumption of natural resources are the main causes of biodiversity loss.
in this context, i also consider it important that the parties to cites consider further ways to enhance cooperation, coordination and synergies within the conventions related to the protection of biodiversity at all relevant levels.
− the european commission previously defined corporate social responsibility (csr) as 'a concept whereby enterprises voluntarily integrate social and environmental aspects into their business activities and interactions with stakeholders'.
corporate social responsibility concerns the activities of companies, both within and outside the framework of their legal obligations towards society and the environment.
however, certain regulatory measures create an environment that contributes more strongly to the voluntary fulfilment of social responsibility by enterprises.
by addressing their social responsibility, businesses will be able to gain the long-term trust of employees, consumers and citizens, which creates sustainable business models.
in turn, a higher level of public trust in businesses will help create an environment in which businesses can innovate and grow.
equally gratifying is the fact that businesses can make a significant contribution to the treaty objectives of sustainable development and a highly competitive social market economy through the cap.
− the economic crisis has affected all sections of the population and its impact has also been felt strongly in the business environment.
smes need to change their attitude and adopt the idea of social responsibility as a normal part of business life, through which they can build their competitiveness based on ethics, protection of human rights, respect for the law, good relations with trade unions, environmental protection, support of the region and so on.
businesses are run by people, they are run by people, they are bought by people - and all these people have a stake in how businesses do business, how they treat their employees and the environment.
the report also highlights the importance of transparency and integrated sustainability reporting as the main driver of corporate social responsibility.
europe 2020 is the eu's strategy to boost sustainable growth and job creation, and the single market plays a key role in it.
however, it also needs to take active measures to improve inclusive growth and opportunities, strengthen its innovation capacity and knowledge-based industries, increase investment in infrastructure, develop networks and strengthen social and environmental policies.
we all condemn the inaction of the lao government in the case of the disappearance of the acclaimed and awarded sombath somphone, an activist in the field of community development and promotion of education on sustainable development and civic participation.
first, i want to pay tribute to the doctors and medical staff who have taken the initiative to ensure that children are vaccinated against polio in such a dangerous environment as the taliban-controlled areas of pakistan.
but at the same time, we are adopting a specifically european view, which sees women in isolation and ignores their ties to a cultural environment that is very different from ours.
despite the extensive structure of the european union's measures to permanently improve energy efficiency in the manufacturing sector, as well as in household consumption and transport, our energy procurement costs are rising.
the union's heavy dependence on imported energy commodities should lead us to manage energy resources in a highly efficient, economical and sophisticated way.
while accepting the commission's proposed target of increasing the share of renewable energy to 55% by 2050, i consider it important to point out that renewable energy production often does not guarantee the necessary stability of supply.
it would therefore be appropriate for the commission to inform us of the measures it intends to take to contribute to the security of this energy sector.
these developments must be made as soon as possible, as the closure of more nuclear facilities would have a significant impact on europe's energy supply.
to meet our energy needs, we certainly need nuclear energy.
the slovak authorities have also provided the commission with information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
i welcome the new proposal for a regulation on the mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions, as timely and accurate data contribute to monitoring compliance with emission reduction rules.
this approach is conducive to the objectives of the kyoto protocol, but also to the european union's higher-level objectives, which aim to make a significant contribution to environmental protection.
in the context of the regulation, i particularly appreciate the effort to monitor the impact of maritime transport on greenhouse gas emissions, which we have not done so much in the past.
the resulting picture will then help us to take concrete action to reduce emissions.
since historically long-established prejudices against races are still deeply rooted in society, we must expect that much more effort will be needed to create an environment of mutual respect and esteem among all people.
− if you have sustainable, safe, reliable and affordable energy is one of the main challenges that unites europeans, from civil society to politicians, industry and environmentalists.
although the european commission has defined ambitious energy policy objectives of competitiveness, security of supply, sustainability and reduction of carbon emissions, we still face challenges such as a lack of integration in the internal energy market, the significant energy isolation of certain geographical areas, the lack of access to diversified energy sources that contribute to energy security, and the lack of concrete benefits for consumers and businesses in terms of prices and sustainability.
in 2006, the complainants first submitted a complaint to the european commission, which concluded that an environmental impact assessment under directive 85/337/eec was warranted.
in assessing the arguments of the parties received after the draft recommendation, the ombudsman recalls that he had already stated that the commission's decision to invite austria to carry out an ex post environmental impact assessment was appropriate and reasonable in principle in the circumstances.
it therefore remains to be examined whether the commission ensured that this ex post environmental impact assessment was carried out correctly.
− land use, land use change and forestry (lulucf) accounting is a key element of climate change policy, with the potential to contribute to, inter alia, mitigation, adaptation, biodiversity conservation and the sustainable use of natural resources.
it is necessary and justified to introduce firm rules for the accounting of emissions and removals arising from the implementation of lulucf activities.
the obligation to identify and account for emissions and removals from the full range of emission-related land-related activity categories is an important step towards integrating these sectors into the union's emission reduction efforts.
i consider it justified for member states to review measures to reduce emissions and to maintain or increase removals from the categories of activities covered by this decision.
− timely, reliable and accurate greenhouse gas emissions data are essential to make it clear whether the eu and its member states are on track to meet their targets, and also to develop new and bold policies to tackle climate change.
the regulation on a mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions replaces the monitoring mechanism established by directive 280/2004/ec.
although the provisions of the regulation on a mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions are similar to the requirements under decision 280/2004/ec, the commission has proposed some improvements.
the proposed objectives include, inter alia, supporting member states in implementing the climate and energy package, improving the timeliness, transparency and comparability of reported data, facilitating the development of new union climate change instruments, and ensuring that the union and its member states comply with international monitoring and reporting obligations, including reporting on support to developing countries.
given their location in the indian ocean, the caribbean, the atlantic ocean or the pacific ocean, they face new challenges that europe must also face, such as the globalisation of trade, new environmental problems and risks related to weather fluctuations.
they must therefore be developed in a sustainable way.
water is a natural renewable resource that is relatively inexhaustible, but is regionally scarce over large areas.
the problem that may be of greatest concern today is the pollution of water intended for human consumption and the lack of consumer awareness of water quality and the setting of mandatory standards for water intended for human consumption.
− if you have the safety and quality of drinking water for european citizens must be at the forefront of any policy aimed at protecting human health and the environment, alongside air quality.
but i'm also very skeptical that more bureaucracy is the right answer to the waste of public resources.
the lack of a satisfactory level of implementation of eu environmental law is reflected in the high number of environmental infringements and complaints.
there are significant differences in the implementation of legislation between member states as well as within member states, which lead to negative environmental impacts and thus to the need for a more systematic and holistic approach, which is essential to overcome these 'implementation gaps'.
as recently as 2011, the environment was the area with the highest number of reported breaches of union law in the eu (299), accounting for 17% of all breaches, and 114 new infringement procedures were initiated in the same year.
full compliance with eu environmental legislation is a treaty obligation and a criterion for the use of eu funds in the member states.
i believe that member states should therefore implement environmental legislation in a timely and cost-effective manner in order to improve the state of the environment in the eu as a whole.
− the environment is a necessary condition for our existence and survival.
it should therefore be a matter of course and a necessity for us to protect it and to create all the conditions and procedures to protect the environment and promote sustainable development.
i supported the report because the commission is putting forward proposals and procedures that can significantly help member states to enhance the importance of cooperation with the eu on the environment.
the need to address the environment is all the more pressing as the evidence confirms that in many cases we are moving away from sustainability rather than towards it within the eu.
the current lack of enforcement of environmental legislation costs us many billions of euros a year.
i therefore support all initiatives that create opportunities for improving the environmental legislation adopted so far.
however, i also expect greater interest and effort from member states in implementing the rules, particularly in the area of environmental information, improving the knowledge and skills of those involved in implementing the legislation and disseminating best practice among member states.
responsibility of politicians is crucial in this nervous environment, and therefore our demand for a more decent, constructive and responsible work must be directed towards them.
although china's political scene is still based on communist foundations, its acceptance of market economy rules and perhaps a specific business environment allows it to enjoy dynamic economic growth, supported by rapidly growing domestic consumption.
− the lisbon treaty gives the european union significant new prerogatives in areas such as external action, sport, space, climate change, energy, tourism and civil protection.
− the communication from the commission to the european parliament, the council, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions entitled 'the cap to 2020: meeting the food, natural resources and territorial challenges of the future' sets out the possible tasks, objectives and objectives of the common agricultural policy (cap) after 2013. the discussions on this communication have shown that the cap should be reformed with effect from 1 january 2014. it is essential to have a strong cap supported by the budget needed to generate real growth in the period 2007 to 2013 to enable the european union to produce the necessary quantity of a variety of high-quality foodstuffs at a constant rate, and to help promote employment, preserve and produce environmental goods, combat climate change and manage land.
i consider food safety and environmental protection to be the main ones.
it is important that the eu's common agricultural policy is increasingly green, with 30% of the total funding being conditional on complying with binding environmental measures.
the definition of green measures should depend on the size of the farm and the extent to which other environmental measures are applied.
i believe that in order to improve the economic and environmental performance of agricultural and rural businesses, to improve the efficiency of the marketing and processing of agricultural products, to provide the infrastructure needed for the development of agriculture and to support the investments needed to meet environmental objectives, support should be provided for physical investments contributing to those objectives.
in order to increase the awareness of beneficiaries of the relationship between agricultural practices, farm management and risk management on the one hand and standards relating to the environment, climate change, good agricultural condition, food safety, public health, animal health, plant health and animal welfare on the other hand, it is necessary that member states set up a comprehensive farm advisory system to offer advice to beneficiaries.
− if you have the eu's energy policy is based on security of supply (diversity of sources), competitive prices and energy efficiency, complemented by measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
it is in the interest of member states to reduce their dependence on energy imports with volatile prices and to diversify their energy supply.
the commission's proposed energy roadmap 2050 provides the basis for the design of legislative and other energy initiatives in the context of the development of the 2030 policy framework including milestones and targets on greenhouse gas emissions, renewable energy and energy efficiency with a view to developing an ambitious and stable legal and regulatory framework.
the scenarios proposed for 2050 are not deterministic in nature but rather serve as a starting point for a constructive dialogue on how to transform the european energy system in order to meet the long-term target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels.
− the eu's energy policy aims include increasing security of supply, ensuring energy efficiency and reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
in order to achieve these objectives as soon as possible, we need a strategy that allows member states to cooperate in the creation of a european energy community.
increased energy efficiency and energy savings play a key role in the transformation of the energy system and member states should therefore do their utmost to implement the energy efficiency directive.
low-emission energy sources are essential for the eu's future cost-effective energy supply.
renewable energy will play a definite role in shaping our energy policy, but we must not forget the benefits of nuclear energy.
nuclear energy is used as an important low-emission energy source in several member states.
different geographical conditions make it impossible to apply a universal energy policy to all regions, and therefore all european regions should be allowed to develop the energy sources that prove most efficient for them.
− i welcome the draft energy action plan, which contains proposals to address the european energy situation.
these proposals will play an important role in the environment, in particular by reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
i want to highlight the intention to make better use of renewable energy sources, which i see as a way of improving the environment.
replacing fossil fuels with suitable renewable sources will reduce emissions of harmful substances and enhance energy security.
i also see the benefit of the energy progress plan in building up the energy independence of the member states, which could reduce unemployment.
i think it is important that the energy progress plan pays attention to the situation at regional level.
taking account of the specificities of the regions will help to tackle real problems, thus laying a solid foundation for building the european union's competitiveness in the energy sector.
− the transformation of the energy system is necessary not only for climate and safety reasons, but also for economic reasons.
the search for solutions is necessary, even though energy resources have been used at a faster rate in recent times due to economies of scale and improvements in technology.
in this context, we must not forget the current financial and economic crisis, which is causing, and i expect will continue for some time to cause, energy investors to be more cautious in investing in energy markets, especially in the renewable energy sector.
in order to improve this energy process and to ensure the timely implementation of the necessary transformation, it is essential that the eu engages more actively with member states and stakeholders and prepares concrete measures and proposals for solutions in the field of energy system transformation.
− nuclear energy and nuclear safety are the most watched topics at the moment and i do not consider any negotiations to be easy.
such rapid changes can only be explained by the action of external environmental factors.
this environmental impact comes from a number of different sources, including lifestyle, dietary, pathogenic, medical, pharmaceutical and economic factors, as well as social causes such as stress.
i supported the report, including the proposals for measures, because the risks of irreparable damage to human health and the environment are too high.
i believe that in the future, such measures will bring us a sustainable chemical industry, better environmental protection and the health of future generations.
the creation of landfills with asbestos waste is a temporary solution to a problem that is thus passed on to future generations, as asbestos fibres are practically indestructible over time.
− the harmfulness of asbestos to humans and the environment is now well known.
although the european commission decided in 1999 to ban the use of all types of asbestos, it is essential that measures be taken to minimise the impact on both the individual and the environment as a whole in order to phase out asbestos.
it plays a central role in finding sustainable solutions to current environmental, energy and globalisation challenges.
there is no doubt that the commission's proposal to withdraw 900 million allowances from the european union's emissions trading scheme will be a major intervention in the current carbon market.
the consequence of this measure will naturally be an increase in the price of carbon, which on the one hand may put pressure on polluters to innovate their technologies more intensively, but on the other hand will immediately translate into price increases in many industrial products, which ultimately will be paid by our citizens.
the eu emissions trading scheme is a key tool for cost-effectively reducing industrial emissions.
its creation was a market-based measure to regulate co2 prices, which enables us to incentivise low-emission technologies and investments in renewable energy.
despite the fact that emissions have been declining since the ets was set up, the system is still highly unequal in its operation.
one reason is the economic crisis, which is still very much in effect today, and which has led to the accumulation of 955 million surplus emissions.
it can be said that the supply of allowances is currently far in excess of demand, so that carbon prices have decreased from approximately eur 30/tonne co2 to approximately eur 5/tonne co2.
such a significant decrease in quota prices has serious consequences for the adequate incentives for sustainable and technological investments and hampers investments in low-carbon technologies.
in order to overcome the current disparities, the legislative provisions on the timing of the auctioning of greenhouse gas emission allowances should be amended as soon as possible.
the commission's proposal to suspend the application of the european union's emissions trading scheme to intercontinental flights in 2012 is justified by the fact that the european commission wishes to improve the prospects for a successful outcome of the establishment of global market measures in international aviation at the forthcoming general assembly of the international civil aviation organisation in september 2013. i don't want to debate the meaning of our gesture today.
one of the eu's main objectives is to ensure that economic growth and development are accompanied by social justice, including key labour standards and sustainable environmental practices, including through external policies.
i am in favour of deepening integration on a practical level: banking union, fiscal union, achieving a single market, a single energy system, developing a genuine european infrastructure, a common and single digital space and many other practical steps.
today, under the influence of deepening globalisation, the security environment and security situation are also deteriorating more and more in other areas, which include undoubtedly electronic and communication media, the internet and social networks.
written − the european emissions trading system (ets) is a key instrument with which the european union aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
it is a good tool that combines the needs of the market and is also designed to lead to environmental protection.
moreover, the ets is the basis for the smooth transition to a low-carbon economy that is planned in the future for environmental protection and would be a step backwards to a different, less environmentally friendly system.
− between 1990 and 2006, carbon dioxide emissions from aviation almost doubled in the european union.
this figure represents about 3% of total greenhouse gas emissions and is on the rise.
it is forecast to grow by a further 63% by 2020. we must bear in mind that our commitment is to reduce our emissions by 20% compared with 1990 levels.
therefore, everything must be done to effectively tackle global warming, but this can only be achieved on an international basis.
that is why i believe it is important that aviation, which is part of the eu ets, should also play its part in the fight against climate change.
two thirds of emissions are caused by intercontinental flights, but only one third of these are caused by flights from the eu.
the reason for including aviation was the need to address the rapid increase in emissions from this sector.
since 1990, the base year for the kyoto protocol, greenhouse gas emissions from aviation have increased by about 100%.
at last year's meeting of the council of the international civil aviation organisation (icao), considerable progress was made in the effort to ensure global regulation of aviation emissions.
therefore, no measures should be taken against aircraft operators in relation to the requirements arising from directive 2003/87/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 13 october 2003 applying before 1 january 2014 to the reporting of verified emissions and the corresponding surrender of allowances from flights to and from such airports.
in order to avoid distortions of competition, this exemption should only apply in respect of aircraft operators that have either not obtained free allowances or have returned all free allowances allocated to them in 2012.
written − the european emissions trading system can be seen as one of the key tools by which the eu is seeking to achieve the greenhouse gas emission reductions it has committed to under the kyoto protocol to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 8% below 1990 levels by 2012. i would point out that according to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, aviation is currently responsible for about 3% of all greenhouse gas emissions and this share is growing very rapidly from year to year.
i therefore supported the report and its swift adoption, because i believe that existing legislation on greenhouse gases must apply without distinction to everyone, including aviation, which i still consider to be very moderate compared to other sectors.
i also expect that the one-year limitation proposed will be sufficient to make progress in addressing emissions from international aviation.
i fully appreciate that the eu is currently a leader in providing trade support to developing countries, but i expect the eu to make greater use of the instruments at its disposal to develop growth and poverty reduction efforts in developing countries, while helping to create an enabling environment for effective trade assistance and trade development.
i also agree that trade support will focus on countries that would have limited prospects for long-term growth and sustainable development without external assistance, but at the same time i expect the commission to take into account the country's overall level of development and its needs, capacities and internal development disparities.
the main objective of the cotonou agreement, as the framework for the union's relations with the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries and the overseas countries and territories (octs), is to reduce and ultimately eradicate poverty in line with the objectives of sustainable development and the gradual integration of the acp and octs into the world economy.
the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the accounts of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
however, it received union support in the form of a contribution from the commission (directorate-general for environment) of only eur 500000 as agreed compensation for carrying out certain preparatory activities in relation to the forthcoming biocidal products regulation (eu) no 528/2012.
− the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a research plan for the development of key technologies for embedded computing systems in a variety of applications, to strengthen europe's competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the emergence of new markets and societal applications.
− the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy was established in march 2007 for a period of 35 years.
on the basis of the above, parliament approved the accounts and decided to grant the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing.
continuation of dialogue and the normalisation of relations with kosovo is currently the key point on the agenda – naturally so, since only good and sustainable relations between serbia and kosovo can open the door to the european union for both of them.
almost every policy area the eu deals with - whether economic, social or environmental policy - requires high-quality demographic statistics to help set operational targets and assess progress.
− if you have under the eu waste shipment regulation, the export of hazardous waste from eu countries to non-oecd countries has been prohibited since 1998. due to the diversity of hazardous materials on board a ship, any ship coming from the eu for dismantling is hazardous waste and can therefore only be legally dismantled within the oecd.
kazakhstan is playing an increasingly important role in its region and we must therefore strive to ensure that the new legal environment, after the implementation of the relevant reforms, allows not only judges and lawyers, but also journalists and opposition politicians to carry out their work freely.
the european union's massive support for the expansion of renewable energy production is already producing significant results.
new technologies for the production of energy from renewable sources are gradually becoming competitive, which is slowly increasing the market share of this type of energy.
in the renewal of the european union's energy system, we must therefore count on greater coordination between suppliers of energy from different sources, so that we can gradually and effectively compensate for fluctuations in the consumer network, even if we use efficient energy storage methods.
it is evident that, alongside the construction of new renewable energy capacity, the technical infrastructure needs to be modernised and adapted to new needs.
only then will we be able to get more renewable energy into homes and into manufacturing.
the deepwater horizon explosion killed 11 workers and spilled 4.9 million barrels of crude oil into the sea in 2010. this accident was one of the most serious ecological disasters of our time.
− i supported the proposal as i believe that ensuring effective regulation and harmonisation at pan-european level in the field of civil aviation safety and environmental protection is very important also in the light of the current economic climate.
i therefore take a very positive view of the fact that in the committee on industry, research and energy there is agreement on security issues across almost the entire political spectrum.
on the other hand, we must also be aware that in the last 10 years alone, there have been five major platform accidents with serious environmental impacts, loss of life and indirect damage to the coastal and maritime sectors.
i supported the report because i think that mining companies in different member states have different environmental, health and safety standards and that the legislation in place so far has not regulated all aspects of mining companies' activities that have an impact not only on the environment but also on the safety of people working on the platforms.
although the report is of high quality and contains important measures, i call on all stakeholders to take safety, environmental conservation and protection and the rational use of natural resources as their main considerations when exploring, exploring and extracting oil and gas at sea.
renewable energy sources have recently become one of the key issues affecting the energy market.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to achieve the objective of the union's energy policy.
i supported the report because i believe that the growth of renewable energy can ensure security of energy supply, energy efficiency, savings, job creation and help small and medium-sized enterprises.
i expect renewable energy to become for the european union and its member states not only a great opportunity in the energy market, but also a challenge to increase energy independence and create new jobs.
− renewable energy allows us to diversify our energy supply.
this increases our security of supply and improves european competitiveness, creating new sectors, jobs, economic growth and export opportunities, while reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
strong growth in renewable energy by 2030 could create more than 3 million jobs, including in smes.
if europe maintains its leadership in renewable energy, our global competitiveness will also increase, as the 'clean technology' sector becomes increasingly important in the world.
in 2007, the european union set an ambitious target of 20% renewable energy and 10% renewable energy in transport by 2020 and supported these objectives with a range of supporting policies.
the renewable energy target is a key objective of the europe 2020 strategy to ensure smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
−our energy policy must always strike a balance between security of supply, competitiveness, economy and environmental sustainability.
it is estimated that the eu is well on track to meet its target of obtaining 20% of its energy from renewable sources by 2020. the renewable energy and clean technology industries are a major driver of european competitiveness and have a high job creation potential.
in order to integrate renewable energy sources, the internal market in electricity should be completed by 2014. the strengthening of consumer rights should also be taken into account, allowing independent households, communities and smes to produce energy.
first, i share the rapporteur's view that sustainable pension systems must be based on a combination of the general and capitalisation pillars.
i supported the report because i think it highlights the current problems of pension systems and, importantly, it comes with concrete proposals to ensure adequately sustainable, secure european pension systems.
− the sustainability of pension systems in europe is becoming an increasingly pressing issue.
the european agenda for adequate, safe and sustainable pensions for young and old appears to be the appropriate starting point for a discussion that can be followed by reforms through non-legally binding instruments and, where appropriate, legislation.
i therefore consider it important to make the necessary efforts so that the proposed measures contribute to the creation of sustainable peace and positive development.
− i consider the gsp to be an effective instrument to help safeguard fundamental human and labour rights, reduce poverty and promote sustainable development in developing countries.
over the other period, the environment for the movement of pet animals has changed: the commission and the member states have, inter alia, carried out anti-rabies campaigns, which have allowed rabies to be considered to be overcome in several parts of the union, although there is a need for constant vigilance.
eu-us investment is a real driver of transatlantic relations, with a total value of bilateral investment of over eur 2,394 billion in 2011. the eu and the us share common values and have comparable legal systems and high, albeit different, standards of labour, consumer and environmental protection.
the macro-regional strategy is an effective way of addressing common challenges relating to population change, infrastructure, environmental issues, energy supply, tourism and transport facilities in the alpine region.
i believe that the sustainable development of the alps is important and should be considered as one of the main objectives of the macro-regional strategy.
effects which affect and present a risk to humans in the working environment include, but are not limited to, physical factors.
the future is likely to be dominated by satellite toll systems that can more accurately measure the actual use of the road network by users and thus the relative contribution to pollution.
we are causing serious problems for stakeholders and for the supervisory authorities, because we have developed too broad categories in today's changed market and legal environment.
− the main objective of the plan is to ensure the sustainable exploitation of cod stocks in the geographical areas of the kattegat, the north sea, the west of scotland and the irish sea on the basis of maximum sustainable yield.
− the european commission published a proposal for a european consumer agenda on 22 may 2012 following the eu consumer policy strategy 2007 2013. the proposal presented consists of a set of consumer initiatives for the period 2014-2020. the main focus should be on food security, health, energy, financial and digital products.
i believe that a consumer agenda is desirable to reduce inequalities between consumers in europe and contribute to a low-carbon economy.
− if you have under the treaty, the council may adopt, by means of directives, minimum requirements to promote improvements, in particular, in the working environment, in order to guarantee a higher level of protection of the health and safety of workers.
it is important to seek to promote more responsible politics, swifter and more credible justice, a healthier business environment, a more transparent banking system and professions, as well as appropriate anti-money laundering measures, in order to prevent crime from continuing to pay off at the expense of the legal economy and honest businesses and citizens.
− the aim of the rapporteur, ms delli, is to show the extent to which social housing can provide the union with the impetus to overcome the economic, social and environmental crisis.
quality, accessible and integrated transport infrastructure, environmentally and energy-efficient and safe transport are very important for the internal market and for the living standards of all citizens of the european union.
− illegal fishing is carried out without regard for environmental, social and other standards.
− in a changing world, the european commission is focusing its policy on building a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy in europe.
in this context, the single market is europe's best asset for ensuring sustainable growth.
− i supported the report because competition policy not only contributes to the union's financial stability and structural reforms, but also becomes an effective tool for achieving the europe 2020 objectives and ensuring sustainable and inclusive growth, and is the foundation of the european social market economy.
the commission has also taken the view that the cci is a building block of genuine fiscal capacity, which promotes solidarity and the implementation of sustainable, growth-enhancing structural reforms.
madam president, in today’s fluid and multipolar system the transatlantic partnership is no longer sufficient for addressing global problems, from the syrian conflict to global warming, to piracy, to cyber-warfare.
mr president, with discussions on the ttip negotiations still in progress, there is a need to continue to strengthen and expand the partnership between the eu and the usa to include subjects such as global governance, social issues, human rights, security and energy.
the new post-2015 development agenda must respond to changing global conditions in the areas of demographic trends, economic movements or climate change.
the new millennium framework should, in my view, be based on the eradication of poverty and the achievement of sustainable development, including well-functioning health protection and education support mechanisms.
the creation of a peaceful and calm environment, which provides the basic foundation for good, transparent and democratic governance, must be a prerequisite for achieving these objectives.
since 1975, we have been gradually improving and extending the contractual relations formally established between the european union and the acp countries under the lomé convention through the revision mechanisms of the acp-ec partnership agreement signed in cotonou in 2000. the latest revision of the agreement, in march 2011, brings a number of positive changes, including a joint effort to achieve the millennium development goals in the areas of poverty reduction, food security, health, climate change and sustainable development.
− as preferential access to the european market did not lead to sustainable growth or sufficient integration of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states into the world economy and the unilateral trade preferences granted by the european union were incompatible with the principle of non-discrimination of the world trade organisation (wto), a transitional solution was adopted in the form of temporary, framework and advance gsps.
it is as if we forget that a person does not leave his beliefs behind closed doors as soon as he leaves his home environment, but that his beliefs or faith are an inherent part of himself and form an integral part of his personality.
in today's globalised world, the eu and the us should, despite the economic crisis, continue to play a vital role in world politics, the economy and shaping the international environment, and should seek to address international challenges together.
the broader transatlantic partnership should also address issues such as development, security, energy and immigration, while taking steps towards gradual economic and political convergence.
the proposal is also important in terms of a higher level of environmental protection.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment.
− population growth, large-scale increases in food and energy demands and the scarcity of natural resources pose new challenges for the union.
the balance between production and consumption must be managed in an efficient and sustainable manner.
it also contributes to supporting rural development, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and making the production cycle more sustainable.
bioeconomy strategies should also promote more efficient use of household and municipal waste.
written − international nuclear liability is governed by two instruments: the vienna convention and the paris convention on third party liability in the field of nuclear energy.
in writing − every year, we witness thousands of accidents and incidents in eu waters, which have an impact not only on the environment but also, in many cases, on people, who are often at risk of death or injury in these disasters.
although some progress has already been made in the transport of cargo and passengers by sea and eu waters are generally safer than in the past, i welcome all eu initiatives aimed at improving environmental controls, ship construction and maintenance, seafarer training, vessel monitoring and maritime surveillance.
in writing − if you have the aim of the proposal is to promote and enforce the rules on the inspection of the technical condition of motor vehicles in order to enhance road safety and environmental protection.
a vehicle may only be sold if it complies with the requirements of the safety, environmental and type-approval regulations.
i therefore welcomed the report that the commission is presenting, the basic objective of which is to contribute to improving road safety and environmental protection.
although road vehicles have undergone significant technological developments, transport is responsible for 25% of all co2 emissions and 75 human lives lost every day on european roads.
i support the report because, as a passenger car driver, i consider roadworthiness testing to be an effective means of ensuring quality transport, and also because the proposals put forward provide for a series of measures aimed at ensuring that vehicles operating on european land roads are technically fit for road safety and environmental protection and do not pose a danger to the driver or other road users.
i welcome all the commission's activities, proposals and measures which, by extending and updating the scope of technical inspections, could reduce by 2020 road fatalities by 50% and also reduce the environmental impact of road transport, particularly in terms of co2 emissions, through more extensive and frequent emission controls.
in writing, the commission is proposing new rules on roadworthiness tests in an effort to enhance road safety and ensure a high level of environmental protection.
i support the report because it contains complementary proposals and measures which can significantly improve road safety, the environment, the protection of public health and, where appropriate, reduce pollution or damage to land communications.
as a renewable resource, clean, high-quality water is an indispensable component of the environment and also has an important place in the economic and industrial life of each member state.
i agree with the gradual reduction of emissions of priority substances and, in particular, with the cessation of emissions of toxic bioaccumulative and persistent substances into the aquatic environment.
written − the water framework directive establishes a list of priority substances that pose a significant risk to the eu's aquatic environment.
in order to achieve good chemical status, the environmental quality standards established for these substances must be met.
the commission proposal adds 15 new substances to the list, sets environmental quality standards for seven existing priority substances and introduces specific provisions for substances that behave as ubiquitous persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic substances.
i believe that the problems of water pollution are of concern to all of us, which is why i voted in favour of the resolution which, as part of the update, adds 15 chemicals to the list of 33 pollutants to be monitored and controlled in eu surface waters.
water pollution is now a global problem, and in many cases it is a major cause of death and disease.
the statistics show that 14,000 people die each day as a result of water pollution.
therefore, we must also increase efforts in the removal and control of chemical pollution in water, which should be directed towards the progressive reduction of priority substances in water.
− environmental quality standards specify the maximum concentration of a given pollutant or group of pollutants in water and its deposits.
it shall not be exceeded in order to ensure the protection of public health and the environment.
if regular inspections show that they have a negative impact on the aquatic environment, these substances will be included in the priority list.
the maximum permitted concentrations, which are defined in the framework of environmental quality standards (eqs), will apply to new substances included in the priority list from 2018. to this end, member states will be required to draw up and submit to the commission by 2018 supplementary programmes of measures and monitoring programmes.
written − the blue growth report calls for a new policy approach to the maritime economy, focusing on two fundamental issues: firstly, the need to ensure that the workforce has the necessary skills to achieve employment growth in this area; secondly, the aim is to ensure the sustainability of 'blue growth' without harming the fragile marine environment.
the report contains strategic recommendations for all economic activities linked to blue growth, in particular dealing with ship repair and construction, maritime and coastal tourism, blue energy, fisheries and aquaculture, marine mineral extraction and blue biotechnologies.
creating half a million jobs in this promising area is a concrete way of fighting unemployment and shaping sustainable growth in the eu.
however, in applying any measures, we must not forget to protect the environment and the areas that are close to the coastal zones.
however, cooperatives that create a suitable working environment for the employment of disabled people deserve special attention.
in writing − the oceans and seas surrounding europe offer a wide range of opportunities to achieve the europe 2020 objectives in the areas of employment, innovation, education, social inclusion and the fight against climate change.
i voted in favour of the report because if we really want to ensure the expansion of the blue economy and its sustainability and achieve good environmental status, we need to come up with new topics and solutions that will create opportunities to exploit the untapped potential of europe's oceans and seas and coasts.
i therefore welcome all the proposals that the commission is coming up with and i believe that in the future these measures will bring us sustainable blue growth.
to improve and further advance the blue growth process, i expect the eu and the member states to create more space for the use of blue energy, aquaculture, tourism, marine minerals and blue biotechnology.
the urgency of tackling the ecosystem problem is also reflected in the reports and proposals submitted.
i expect the european union and the member states to change more radically their approach to the production, consumption, processing, storage, recycling and disposal of biological resources in the interests of the progress and sustainability of the bioeconomy.
written − europe, against the background of the global social, environmental and economic challenges it faces, needs new ways to address the production and consumption, processing, storage, recycling and disposal of biological resources.
the commission focuses on the issues to be addressed (food security, sustainable management of natural resources, reduction of dependence on fossil fuels, climate change mitigation and adaptation, job creation and competitiveness) and identifies tools and measures to develop the bio-based sector of the eu economy.
the bioeconomy is considered a key element of smart and green growth in the europe 2020 strategy, given its potential to create jobs in rural, coastal and industrial areas, to improve the economic and environmental sustainability of primary production (agriculture and forestry, fisheries and aquaculture) and the processing industry, while reducing the use of non-renewable energy sources.
for the efd group at the outset, it should be said that if we are talking today in the european parliament about the repeated and persistent violation of fundamental human rights, the rights of the european union, as well as the international commitments of hungary, by your government, mr prime minister, it is only because neither the office of the un high commissioner for human rights, nor the council of europe, nor the court of justice of the european union, nor the venice commission, but also the european commission, have been able to restore the functioning of those basic democratic mechanisms that have been gradually destroyed in your country since 2011. but the european community cannot tolerate the kind of governance that alexander grigorievich lukashenko or modern african rulers have in our cultural and civilized environment for long.
as for me, as a person, as a citizen of a country that neighbours hungary, i am convinced that we need to have a stable, transparent and peaceful political environment in hungary, and i assure you that not only slovaks but also other neighbours are willing to help create such an environment in hungary.
it is in our common interest and that is why i think that if we find partners on the hungarian side to have a cultivated and reasonable dialogue, we will help create such an environment.
the huge economic and social losses as well as the environmental damage must be compensated.
− the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) is developing internationally harmonised requirements to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the parties to the revised 1958 agreement, while ensuring that such vehicles offer a high level of safety and environmental protection.
− the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) created the first major global carbon market and set a common eu-wide price for carbon.
it is not specified how the volumes of greenhouse gas emission allowances to be auctioned are to be allocated over the trading period.
while i acknowledge that we have moved on from the original proposal, which we have already rejected, the whole policy of encouraging investment in low-carbon technologies is costing europe more than it is benefiting.
the emissions trading system simply reduces the competitiveness of our companies by raising the prices of energy and production.
it is also essential that they are applicable to all types of threats, such as chemical, biological or environmental.
- i think it's wrong to associate one extreme storm or more frequent rainfall over a period with climate change.
however, if extreme events occur over a multi-year period, such as the undoubted 2013 floods in central europe, which followed the heavy rainfall in late may and early june 2013, this can already be linked to climate change.
based on these facts, it can be assumed and expected that unless something more substantial in the area of climate change happens, we will continue to fight against a natural element that leaves damage to property, health and lives of people, animals, the environment and cultural heritage.
i am very pleased that the eu has included this item in the ep's agenda, because if we do not do something to stop climate change, the world we live in will change irreversibly, and with it, undoubtedly, the way we live our lives, which we are already used to, so to speak.
i realize that climate change is not a simple process that can be stopped overnight.
but what we can do not only for ourselves, but for future generations, is change the way we live, the way we produce and use energy.
nevertheless, given djibouti's strategic importance at the tip of the horn of africa, we must exert an effective influence on local political structures in order to achieve the conditions for the transitional establishment of a pluralist system and a democratic political environment.
deepening climate change and expanding deserts are driving muslims from the north into more fertile areas, where social tensions are then created based on ethnic and religious differences.
the eu needs a competitive, integrated and flexible energy market, capable of putting the security of electricity and gas supply on a firm footing.
our ever-increasing energy demands require us to ensure that our citizens have access to affordable energy.
we need to invest urgently in our energy generation, transmission, distribution and storage infrastructures.
to this end, effective mechanisms should be established to avoid distortions in the energy market.
we need economically sound investments in energy efficiency.
this is one of the fastest ways to increase security of supply and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
despite the progress made in the functioning of the energy market in recent years, there is still work to be done to improve integrity and increase competitiveness.
in writing − i believe it is right to seek to transform the european transport system into a sustainable and competitive system that further improves mobility and continues to support economic growth and employment.
in the area of infrastructure, progress is necessary and desirable in smart, green, low-maintenance and climate-resilient infrastructure, including the provision of alternative fuels, modal transport management and information systems that can support user services, demand response and other solutions related to the optimised use of infrastructure.
last but not least, i believe it is important to focus on research and innovation in transport technologies to promote easy, sustainable and safe mobility for even the most vulnerable citizens.
i believe that if we want to reduce europe's dependence on oil imports, improve the environment, reduce road accidents and significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we must look for new options for alternative fuels, sustainable energy sources and the use of energy-efficient and greener means of transport.
in writing − if the union is to respond to europe's energy and climate change challenges and to ensure affordable and secure energy supplies for households and businesses, it must ensure that the internal european energy market functions efficiently and flexibly.
unless fundamental changes are made to the way the energy market works, we will end up with a less reliable and more costly european energy system, with the consequent reduction in the union's competitiveness and wealth.
i believe it is important to motivate further measures to improve energy efficiency, to stimulate fair competition and, last but not least, to improve consumer rights.
written − electricity is the most easily transportable and transformed form of energy for households and industry and is therefore rightly considered to be one of the key elements for the development of the european economy and job creation.
i voted in favour of the report because it not only points out the shortcomings of the internal energy market, but also contains measures to combat energy poverty and unavailability, which affects some 13% of european households, or 65 million europeans.
thanks to all those involved in the report, but i still feel that the objectives of the internal energy market, which would allow consumers in each member state to choose their supplier on the basis of supply and price, have not yet been met.
although some progress has been made in relation to energy consumers, i expect the commission to do much more, in particular on infringements by member states, to strengthen the rights of consumers, especially the vulnerable, and to develop a definition of european energy poverty.
i agree that the energy community must be based on a strong common energy market, coordination of energy purchases across eu borders and common european funding for new low-cost energy technologies.
i am aware that the trend of rising energy prices is likely to continue, and i therefore regard the lack of information and, in many cases, the illiteracy of european citizens and consumers of the internal energy market as a very serious moment.
i supported the report because i believe that it not only sets out the state of play and the benefits of energy efficiency, but also provides the ideas and recommendations of the eu strategy for sustainable and inclusive growth that can ultimately help meet the target of reducing total energy consumption by 20% by 2020. i am sure that although a fair amount of work has been done in the area of energy efficiency, i still encounter entities that, in accessing the structural funds and the cohesion fund, encounter too much red tape, not enough clear procedures and rules, which in many cases have discouraged them from applying for such funds.
in writing − the present report aims to support the development of a new union strategy in the fisheries and aquaculture sector for the adriatic and ionian sea region and thus make a significant contribution to the development of sustainable economic activities that could have a positive impact on coastal communities and adjacent inland areas.
however, the adriatic-ionian strategy seeks to make efforts to promote, among other things, sustainable fisheries.
the report also highlighted the inefficient use of interpretation services and the need to raise awareness of the costs of interpreting and the waste of resources.
the nature of the online environment means that gambling sites can operate in the eu outside any form of control exercised by the union regulatory authorities.
it is therefore our duty to focus in particular on improving the quality of life of our citizens, increasing employment, eliminating youth unemployment, increasing competitiveness and improving the competitive environment for entrepreneurs.
concrete measures should be taken to promote sustainable and smart growth, to create new jobs, to take measures to guarantee that young people can start working on the labour market after finishing their studies and not to waste their talents in the employment offices.
written − the purpose of this report is to ask the commission to submit a legislative proposal, on the basis of article 225 of the treaty, to amend article 9 of regulation (ec) no 401/2009 on the european environment agency (eea).
the floods caused damage to private and public buildings, water infrastructure, including waste water treatment infrastructure, businesses, agricultural land and forest cover.
in writing − i agree with the need to reduce emissions in the transport sector and to meet the europe 2020 targets.
at the same time, slovakia was one of the countries that advocated stricter controls on raw materials for the production of next-generation biofuels during the negotiations in an effort to prevent possible deliberate pollution and fraud.
in writing − if you have the corresponding regulation (ec) no 450/2008 of the european parliament and of the council establishing the union customs code aimed to adapt customs rules to the customs and electronic trading environment, while at the same time regulating that environment.
−directive 2011/92/eu has harmonised the principles for assessing the environmental impacts of projects and contributes to a high level of protection of the environment and human health.
i consider it to be highly justified and important to amend the directive in question in order to improve the quality of the environmental impact assessment procedure, to make the various measures of that procedure more efficient and to increase coherence and synergy with other union legislation and policies, as well as with the strategies and policies developed by the member states within their national competences.
it is undeniable that environmental issues have become more important in policy-making over the past decades and it therefore seems justified to give them the attention they deserve.
the environment is one of the key factors, especially for infrastructure projects.
in slovakia, the index of the entrepreneurial environment declined by 72.2 points, representing a decline of 3.84 percent in the first three months of 2013 compared to the last quarter of last year.
this is not only a waste of human potential but also an economic loss estimated at around eur 150 billion.
within the union, 53% of workers are surveyed as having a problem with work-related accidents, as the work environment is a higher risk than other settings of daily life, and this is particularly true for small businesses.
the working environment itself is changing - as the president mentioned - with the introduction of new technologies, but the structure of the workforce also increases certain types of workplace risks associated with ageing.
so we need to create a legislative and social environment in europe that is more supportive of the creativity of our people.
doubts about the sustainability of public debt, the outlook for economic growth and the viability of credit institutions create negative, mutually reinforcing market trends.
nor does technological superiority give any state the right to risk the loss of biodiversity.
its threatened status is becoming a serious environmental problem facing mankind.
the protection of biodiversity and the preservation of biological and cultural diversity must become a basic condition for any manipulation of the planet's gene pool.
in writing − access to energy is a fundamental right for all.
the european union is increasingly dependent on energy supplies from third countries if it is to be able to adequately meet the demands of individual member states.
i believe that it should be in the interest of the union's leaders to manage energy resources economically, while taking into account the interests of all eu citizens.
in fact, even the rational sharing of energy can contribute to strengthening the cohesion of society, to successfully combating energy poverty, to creating new jobs and to overall economic growth.
it aims at a high level of employment, a low-carbon economy, productivity and social cohesion.
it is reasonable to expect improvement from the country in areas such as trade, energy, or the environment.
in writing − if you have in particular, technological progress, economic developments and the economic and social crisis have a continuous impact on the working environment and require rapid responses in order to ensure a high level of health and safety at work.
the european carbon trading system covers some 11 000 companies, which account for more than half of the union's carbon dioxide emissions and around 40% of greenhouse gases.
however, emissions trading is in crisis.
second, in addition to allowances, firms can also partially cover their emissions with cheap carbon credits from third country projects, which also contributes to the oversupply on the market.
it is clear that the current form of the emissions trading system is more of a burden than a benefit for both companies and consumers.
i therefore believe that the whole european emissions trading system needs to be thoroughly reworked as soon as possible.
i am therefore convinced that a new instrument, led by regional governments and municipalities, would help to achieve a more harmonious development of the regions, by enabling creative groups at local level to develop local strategies for sustainable growth.
we should ensure a sustainable and fair european space for our companies to operate.
anti-smoking campaigns should target adolescents, who are often unaware of the real risks and consequences of smoking, as these are downplayed or deliberately ignored by the environment and the media.
it is in the most affected areas that cohesion policy finds its true meaning and mission as the main investment instrument for convergence and sustainable development.
the diversity of vessels used for recreational purposes can be a problem for the formulation of a universal regulation governing the legislative requirements for their safety and environmental characteristics.
the focus on the stability and safety of the vessel, the safety of the engine and electrical equipment, and the environmental impact of the operation in terms of noise and exhaust emissions appears to be logical and appropriate.
− i voted in favour of this current report because i believe that the proposal to amend the directive brings new updates to the legislative framework that can significantly strengthen the areas related to the quality of environmental impact assessment of projects across the eu.
i also consider the updating of the directive to be important because the changes can help the union in the areas of resource sustainability, climate change and the increase in cross-border environmental problems.
i am pleased that the revised directive continues to harmonise the principles of environmental impact assessment, which can ultimately play a key role in achieving resource efficiency.
as one of the main objectives of the amendment of the directive is to achieve better implementation at member state level, i expect that at all levels of its governance, the often lengthy and complicated procedures will be eliminated, the quality of the environmental impact assessment procedures will be improved and the dialogue at the level of all stakeholders affected by the implementation of the project will be strengthened.
i believe that this will also ensure a higher degree of transparency and the right of the public to participate in decision-making on environmental issues.
we all know that the production and use of batteries and accumulators containing cadmium is a problem in terms of their environmental impact.
the commission's proposal to phase out nickel-cadmium batteries in europe by the end of 2015 is therefore an administrative measure aimed at protecting the environment and promoting new technologies, which are however more expensive and technologically challenging.
due to its harmful effects on the environment and human health, cadmium is included in the list of substances of greatest concern.
when it accumulates in the environment and in the human body, it is toxic because it persists indefinitely and often causes irreversible damage.
moreover, cadmium and its compounds are toxic not only to humans but also to the environment.
in this way, we would achieve a significant reduction in risks to humans and the environment.
i believe that stricter rules on the use of batteries and accumulators will take account of the economic context of the sector and contribute to limiting the release of harmful substances into the environment.
if we want this to become a reality, we need to invest in quality education in a long-term and sustainable way.
although some progress has been made in the region in recent years, i consider the macroeconomy to remain fragile and vulnerable, in particular with regard to recurring conflicts, persistent poverty, frequent climate change and natural disasters, and overall low human development.
solidarity between people is the only way to truly sustainable development.
it's important to create a cleaner banking system and a cleaner business environment, because that's what serves entrepreneurs in a fair and legal way.
i am pleased that the report we are discussing today also addresses some specific issues of importance to slovakia, such as energy and energy security.
our aim should not be to subsidize traineeships and short-term jobs for young unemployed school leavers, but to create an environment in which these young people are not afraid to stand on their own feet or to find work where it is.
as the global economy becomes increasingly internet-based, it is necessary to recognise that one of the sources of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth is information and communication technologies.
they are home to one third of the continent's fauna and flora, and coordination between states in the framework of the carpathian region strategy on the environment, economic growth, employment, cross-border cooperation, tourism and other areas is a welcome initiative.
therefore, our strategy for the carpathian region should include a maximum effort to maintain a balance between the ecological protection of the natural environment and the economic activities carried out in this region.
cooperation between participating countries in implementing crossborder regional projects can provide coordinated responses to the various challenges that we face in programming sustainable economic growth in this part of europe.
− economic and sustainable growth, competitiveness, job creation and the fight against youth unemployment can be considered priorities for the 2014 financial year.
if we are to move closer to the eu 2020 objectives, it is also essential to cover expenditure in areas such as science and research, infrastructure and climate change.
the aim is to ensure that fisheries and aquaculture activities contribute to long-term sustainable environmental conditions desirable for economic and social development.
the fund is based on four pillars: green fisheries, green aquaculture, sustainable and inclusive territorial development and an integrated maritime policy.
in particular, member states need to significantly step up their efforts in collecting data for indicators of good environmental status and the impact of fisheries on the ecosystem.
− if you have the available evidence on climate change from daha raises serious concerns about the impact of existing mitigation commitments of stakeholders in terms of global annual greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 and aggregated total emissions scenarios that could represent a chance to keep the global annual average temperature increase to below 2 degrees.
in fact, abrupt climate change is a binding threat to humanity, biodiversity and the planet, and for this reason too it is necessary to address this issue at international level with the participation of all stakeholders.
on the one hand, i believe that europe needs to diversify its energy production in order to gradually achieve self-sufficiency.
but i cannot agree that despite serious doubts about whether human activities and co2 emissions are really the source of global climate change, the eu is blindly and stubbornly proposing new and new commitments.
− the eu's goal is to have a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy by 2020, with a set of policies and measures to enable a smooth transition to a low-carbon, resource-efficient economy.
since 1973, the subsequent environmental action programmes (eaps) have provided the framework for union action on environmental issues.
so far, the last, sixth eap, has recognised that the programme has been environmentally beneficial and has created an overarching framework for the strategic direction of environmental policy.
in writing − the connecting europe facility aims to focus resources on european projects with added value in the areas of transport, energy, telecommunications infrastructure, and thus to create integrated european networks.
this should improve the competitiveness of the union's transport, energy and telecommunications sectors and the return to sustainable, inclusive and balanced growth.
in writing − increasing the eu's competitiveness and achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive growth is inextricably linked to building modern infrastructure in all regions of the union.
i voted in favour of this report because i consider the interconnected transport, energy and digital networks of the european single market to be the cornerstone of european integration and sustainable growth.
i am convinced that the connecting europe facility can become a very important element at all policy levels, supporting the implementation of projects aimed at developing and building new or upgrading existing infrastructure in the areas of transport, energy and telecommunications.
europe needs to complete the missing links and remove the obstacles in the common transport infrastructure, as well as to ensure the future and sustainability of transport.
better analysis of socio-economic costs and benefits, including environmental impact assessment, and a clear definition of european added value will contribute to a stronger focus on ten-t infrastructure priorities.
however, it is important that their construction takes account of the environment of the inhabitants of the member states.
i am very pleased that the report presented underlines the importance of environmental impact assessment and i would be very pleased if the co-financing of specific projects from european sources guaranteed a high standard of environmental and landscape protection in each member state.
in writing the aim of amending articles 25 and 26 of the unece convention on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes, also known as the helsinki convention, is to establish a framework for bilateral and multilateral cooperation in the prevention and control of pollution of transboundary watercourses.
in writing − investments in research and development of technologies with energy production potential and environmental considerations, including the development of fusion energy, are more than necessary.
this process releases a large amount of energy without the unwanted production of greenhouse gases.
but the development of this kind of energy must be controlled.
the iter project is a large-scale global project, a key element of energy research and of particular importance to the european strategic energy technology plan.
this part of horizon 2020 focuses on nuclear energy and it is necessary to note that in this context, there is a particular need to give due consideration to many ethical issues related to nuclear safety, such as nuclear waste.
however, this requirement by the union represents a significant environmental, economic, social and, of course, financial burden, and the eu has therefore committed to providing financial assistance to these countries by the end of 2013. the total amount of european union aid to slovakia, lithuania and bulgaria until the end of 2013 is estimated at eur 2 847,8 million (eur 1 367 million for lithuania, eur 613 million for slovakia and eur 867,8 million for bulgaria).
the european grouping of territorial cooperation is open to all actors and the amendments will facilitate and stimulate territorial cooperation in areas such as public transport, energy supply, health, education, training, which will directly contribute to the creation of new jobs.
i believe that cohesion funds are designed to eliminate regional disparities and that using these funds to build energy networks of higher importance seems to me to be contrary to the principle of cohesion.
the european commission has proposed that the erdf should support regional and local development by co-financing investments between 2014 and 2020 in the following areas: r & d and innovation, climate change and the environment; business support for smes; services of general economic interest; telecommunications, energy and transport infrastructure; health, education and social infrastructure; and sustainable urban development.
i support the parliament's proposal to broaden the objectives to include small-scale infrastructure related to cultural and sustainable tourism.
support for productive investments in large enterprises in the fields of research and innovation, the transition to a low-carbon economy and ict, smes should be involved as a cooperative partner.
our citizens have sent us over 1.3 million online petitions to change this shameful waste of their taxes.
in addition, energy prices are rising in the country and natural gas supplies from egypt are repeatedly interrupted.
in writing − if you have a coherent policy and a high degree of solidarity between member states are necessary to overcome the current economic and social crisis, to create new jobs, to increase the competitiveness of the union economy and to return to sustainable growth.
only in this way will investment in research, the environment, the promotion of smes, infrastructure, transport, education and other important areas be effectively co-financed.
written − the cohesion fund helps member states with a gni per capita of less than 90% of the union average to invest in trans-european transport networks and the environment.
the draft regulation identifies the investment priorities to which cohesion fund support is subject, such as environmental protection and promoting resource efficiency, increasing institutional capacity and the efficiency of public administration, supporting the transition to a low-carbon economy, adapting to climate change, promoting sustainable transport, etc.
it is important to focus on the aspect of sustainable fishing and responsible use of resources.
i think that we in the european parliament should act with the same responsibility and limit the waste of funds.
− to emerge from the current crisis, we need to develop our innovation capacity as a sustainable and effective solution to the challenges identified in the horizon 2020 framework programme.
our smes are known to play a significant role in economic growth, sustainable development and job creation, but they are often at a disadvantage compared to their competitors in other parts of the world.
the synergistic effect of the instruments will thus be able to guarantee a more viable and sustainable future for smes.
nevertheless, the business environment in some countries continues to deteriorate.
commissioner, it might be worthwhile to include in our measures a programme of consultations for senior national economic managers, at which independent experts would present them with suitable, validated and meaningful alternatives for their country to measures to improve the business environment.
although negotiations on smes are not easy, i supported this latest report because i think it is good news, with proposals and measures to increase the competitiveness and sustainability of smes in the eu.
the new challenges to which we must be able to respond also concern areas such as energy security.
i am convinced that the diversification of energy sources and the security of energy supply will play an increasingly important role in europe.
it is therefore necessary to ensure, in particular, closer cooperation between member states and our neighbouring countries in the protection of critical infrastructure and to promote steps towards energy self-sufficiency.
in writing − the horizon 2020 package fully supports the europe 2020 strategy, which has established that research and innovation are crucial to achieving the goals of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
horizon 2020 should be implemented with a view to directly contributing to the creation of industrial leadership, growth and jobs in europe and should reflect the strategic vision of the communication from the commission to the european parliament, the council, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions presented in october 2010.
written − the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) was established by regulation to contribute to sustainable economic growth and competitiveness by strengthening the innovation capacity of the eu and its member states through the full integration of the knowledge triangle.
written − the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth gives a major role to the european institute of innovation and technology (eit), which is delivering on a number of key initiatives.
competitiveness must be at the heart of the union's europe 2020 priorities for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing − set of proposals for horizon 2020 developed in full accordance with the commission communication the budget of europe 2020 fully supports the europe 2020 strategy, which has identified research and innovation as priorities for achieving the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
it will also lead to raising the quality of the scientific base to the cutting-edge level that is essential for sustainability and long-term prosperity in europe.
as recently as june 2010, the european council endorsed the commission's proposal for a europe 2020 strategy for jobs and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, which set out five headline targets (including three focusing on employment, the fight against poverty and social exclusion and education) and seven flagship initiatives.
written − the union's environment and climate policy and legislation have made a significant contribution to improving the state of the environment.
over the past 20 years, the life programme has been a resounding success as a means of addressing the environmental and climate-related challenges facing europeans.
in this context, it can therefore be considered justified to set up a dedicated programme for financing environmental and climate protection measures provided for by the life programme.
focus should be on education, training, and creating a more conducive business environment and better opportunities.
the report takes into account the reality of a constantly changing geopolitical environment, new threats, cross-border terrorism, instability, poverty, hunger, the rise of new powers, the continuing economic and social crisis, etc.
the commission communication on the europe 2020 strategy sets out a strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
it was criticised mainly on economic and environmental grounds, and there were also comments on the weak impact of the financial contribution on the moroccan fisheries sector.
the main issue with which the european parliament expressed its greatest concern, and the importance of which both parties were fully aware, is the fact that it is essential to respect strict sustainability criteria when determining surpluses and fishing opportunities.
the council of the european union has committed itself to acting in a sustainable manner in its annual decisions on catches.
all future stocks must be managed according to the principle of maximum sustainable yield.
however, it is important to focus on population growth, including above a level that is sustainable.
however, this requires an interinstitutional dialogue taking into account environmental, social and economic aspects.
another problem is that deep-sea fishing has expanded to a large extent before sufficient information on the state of stocks, the level of discards and unwanted catches and the impact on the marine ecosystem has been made available.
therefore, it is very important to correctly determine the conditions, as a specific approach in this area is necessary and to avoid further adverse impacts on the underwater ecosystem.
it should be borne in mind that the regulation must also be consistent with the objectives of the european union's development cooperation policy, with the general objectives of sustainable economic development, decent working conditions and poverty eradication in bangladesh.
it should be noted that the emissions trading system is an important tool for reducing industrial emissions in the european union.
since 2008, when the second trading period started, emissions have fallen by more than 10%.
however, according to the commission's 2012 state of the european carbon market report, the second-stage emission reductions contributed to the economic downturn and the weakening of economic activity as well as production.
the supply of credit is very much outstripping demand and the price of carbon has fallen significantly.
it would therefore appear to be useful to develop specific criteria in relation to the paper recycling market, which would allow for the precise determination of when waste-to-paper is no longer waste.
this should contribute to ensuring a high level of environmental protection, which is our priority.
i voted in favour of this current report because i think that the cars 2020 action plan can be a good signal to tackle such serious obstacles as falling demand on the european market, overcapacity and emissions and other regulatory measures.
member states and the union should therefore create a favourable legislative and social environment for the development of this altruistic area.
on the one hand, there is the enormous drive to integrate into the eu, on the other hand, there are russia's tempting terms for billions of dollars worth of energy, aerospace and space projects if it does not join the eu, up to the threat of immediate tightening of customs rules if ukraine joins the eu.
support for reforms related to deep and sustainable democracy and creating closer links with the societies of partner countries are crucial for developing our partnership, and now they have become elements or central parts of the instrument.
active engagement between the eu and its neighbours in areas such as education, environment and research and innovation can also do much to support our shared objectives.
the general political climate is improving thanks to the work of all major political players and i think it gives good prospects for the future.
your aura and the positive energy which you radiate nevertheless made a contribution to our debate.
it is essential to continuously deepen the economic and monetary union, which requires not only more intensive and sustainable economic growth but also, and above all, employment and social cohesion.
domestic workers must have a healthy and safe working environment.
armenia has been an active participant in the european union's neighbourhood policy since 2004. the union's partnership and cooperation agreement with armenia has been in force since 1999. the republic of armenia expressed its request to participate in the union's programmes as well as in its agencies in april 2012. it is a good opportunity to strengthen mutual contacts, whether cultural, educational, technical, scientific or environmental.
in writing − if you have at european level, carriers of radioactive materials are subject to transport legislation originating in the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) as well as legislation deriving from the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community (euratom).
in writing − the retail and wholesale sector is among the key sectors that can act as a driver in the transition to a more sustainable economy and consumption patterns.
i would like to commend your initiative on green policy, particularly infrastructure, because industrial agglomerations are often supplemented by housing for workers, for people who work in these agglomerations, and these agglomerations are concrete jungles without any quality environment, and only with the funds of the european union will it be possible to revive and cultivate these housing areas so that they are able to provide children, but also families, with a quality environment.
such a policy for the people of the european union, for those who work and who build this union, is very important, because so far we have only talked about industrial policy, about the policy of the various financial institutions, but we have said little about the problems of the people who live in this environment.
mr president of the european central bank, in your speech you stressed that in the fragmented environment of the euro area, where we use the single currency, it is difficult to define monetary policy in a way that is both suitable for the industrialized countries of northern europe and at the same time for a debt-laden country struggling with economic decline.
your efforts to reorganize the national banks of the enlarged countries by exchanging european central bank funds for worthless securities are devaluing the ecb's portfolio and raising the legitimate question of how long such a practice will be sustainable without a systemic collapse.
the increasing workload and the growing agenda are no longer sustainable.
in the context of the strategy for sustainable growth, from an environmental, economic and social point of view, which, together with the creation of sustainable jobs, is a prerequisite for social cohesion, eco-innovation is fundamental.
effective investment in this area will have environmental benefits as well as significant economic benefits.
to use this space effectively, we need a clear strategy, taking into account all the economic, social and environmental factors involved.
it enhances the international prestige of european cities, has a positive impact on sustainable development and tourism, stimulates competitiveness within the creative sectors and creates incentives to promote investment in culture and the creation of long-term cultural initiatives.
the gsp is composed of a general measure and two specific measures, including a special incentive measure for sustainable development and good governance (sgf+), under which no duties are required from a beneficiary country for imports of more than 6 000 tariff lines.
the gsp+ is intended to serve as a credible incentive for countries to commit to implementing the key international conventions considered crucial in the context of sustainable development.
better coordination of economic policies is necessary and justified in order to strengthen competitiveness, sustainability and job creation within the member states of the union.
in writing − green infrastructure is a strategically planned network of natural and semi-natural areas with other environmental characteristics, which are designed and managed to provide a wide range of ecosystem services.
in writing − if you have in an environment of declining economic activity and volatile financial conditions resulting from the financial and sovereign debt crises, 2012 was another challenging year for the conduct of monetary policy.
the level of inflation has been substantially affected by strong increases in energy prices and increases in indirect taxes and administered prices in several euro area member states.