we have reached a sustainable compromise that should be acceptable to the majority.
energy is very important because it affects the economy through prices, it creates jobs, and it also has the highest greenhouse gas emissions of any sector.
our environmental standards are extremely high and require investment in sustainable technologies, which are of course more expensive.
it is therefore all the more important that cohesion policy ensures that all member states have the same opportunities to achieve the objectives of the common energy and environment policy.
i particularly welcome the emphasis on energy efficiency projects, especially in the housing sector and in cross-border energy interconnection projects.
i also think it is very good that we are asking the commission to draw up a strategy for improving energy efficiency for smaller projects and for smaller ... (speech was suspended) (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 149 (8)).
if the translation was correct, but i will say it this way - in this financial perspective there was a strong emphasis on renewable energy sources and it seems to me that our direction is to give less attention to this in the next financial perspective and there is a greater emphasis on energy efficiency.
the italian minister for the environment recently reopened the environmental report for this project.
the opposition to the construction of terminals is not only due to procedural and bureaucratic problems, but there are also strong environmental reasons against the construction of terminals.
from an energy point of view, the construction of terminals is not a priority, as two new gas pipelines from asia to central europe are planned.
for this reason, the establishment of a new fund and the issuance of european bonds should have long-term sustainability guarantees.
the replacement of debt with bonds without long-term sustainability guarantees is not admissible.
the future needs sustainable solutions for all european citizens.
the speech by the prime minister of ireland this morning has brought positive vibes, energy and responsibility to our thinking.
the iraqi people still lack a 24-hour electricity supply, which is absurd for a major energy exporter that is rapidly increasing oil and gas extraction and is also an important stabilizer of oil prices, especially in light of the embargo on iranian oil.
the planned construction of gas terminals in the gulf of thrace still leaves a number of open questions, one of the most important being the environmental impact assessment.
i'm interested in the commission's opinion on two separate environmental impact reports.
this breakdown does not take into account the overall impact of the project and shows significantly lower environmental impacts, so i believe that a single report should be prepared for both power plants together.
in addition, the question of marine pollution, geological risks and the disruption of international passenger traffic, which is of particular importance for both ports in the gulf, remain.
and finally, let me say that the negotiations on this convention can also serve as a model for other negotiations, for example, on climate change.
i've been to five climate change conferences, and i don't think any of those three conditions are being met.
secondly, there is no fair sharing of responsibility either, as only a handful of countries have opted to continue the kyoto protocol, including mainly european countries and australia, which together account for only 15 percent of emissions.
and third, we don't have a clear definition of evil either, because we're going from the bottom up, and so we're missing that red thread, which is that we need to agree on how much countries will cut emissions, so that the burden of reducing global warming is equitably shared.
commissioner, i respect the energy you have to insist on these negotiations.
but i am now calling on you to focus on one issue in the negotiations that follow, and that is to reduce emissions fairly in the countries and not to lose sight of other areas that are not so important.
when we talk about smart, sustainable economic growth, we often forget that women can make a significant contribution to improving the economic situation.
draft opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
− the sustainable energy system of the future will be much more efficient than the current one, with much more energy coming from renewable energy sources.
the share of renewable sources, as planned in the future, will be so large that it will affect the technical characteristics of the entire electricity system.
this implies not only the requirement to develop supreme regulation but also to establish a dynamic production of reserve energy.
our main task is to create a suitable investment environment through legislation.
that's why i am personally in favor of one, ambitious, legally binding target to reduce emissions by 2030. i would like to ask the commission again, as the european parliament has done in its report, to draw up a number of scenarios, including those which suggest that a global agreement on climate change may not be reached or that it may be less ambitious than we expect and want.
the purpose of the stress tests was not to prohibit the use of nuclear energy.
climate action is about reducing global warming, not about raising money for a shredded state budget.
in this way, we allow various other budgetary costs to be hidden behind the mask of environmental or climate taxes.
it may have been used by the commission to assess the level of climate ambition in the european parliament, i.e.
how far it could take climate legislation in the future.
higher unit prices would lead to higher energy prices.
but i will vote against it because our climate standards are adequate for 2020 and because i do not want to put in doubt the employment of a few thousand people in slovenia and a few million in the european union.
let's say we have a target for the share of renewable energy, we have a target for energy efficiency.
i don't believe people who say that every rain or snow is caused by carbon dioxide.
but the issue of permits is for me a growth issue, it is for me a new jobs issue in the field of new technologies and it is a health, people and environment issue.
− i voted in favour of the commission's proposal on so-called backloading (freezing of co2 auctions) as it represents the first necessary step towards structural reforms of the european emissions trading scheme (ets).
restoring the carbon price signal would stimulate investment in green technologies and, through the mechanism, in resource-efficient and low-carbon technologies, which will prevent the eu from becoming trapped in high-carbon infrastructure and using foreign resources that europe does not have.
at the same time, a well-functioning ets also promotes energy efficiency improvements, which will protect european industry from fluctuations in fossil fuel prices.
the carbon price under the ets is crucial to prevent distortions in the eu's internal energy market.
without immediate ets adjustments, member states may adopt unilateral climate policies such as the carbon price fixing already introduced by the uk or the coal tax introduced by the netherlands.
in the absence of consistent pan-european rules, costs and risks for investors will increase, jeopardising the (over) necessary investments in modernising the european energy sector.
− i supported the report on the exemption of intercontinental flights from the emissions trading system, which includes an agreement with the eu council on the temporary abolition of the emissions trading system for intercontinental flights.
aviation emissions have more than doubled since 1990 and are rising steadily.
the carbon trading system was established in 2005 and set a general limit on emissions that gradually declines over the long term.
by 2020, emissions in the economic sectors covered by the scheme are expected to be 21% lower than in 2005. undertakings under this restriction obtain or purchase licences offered by member states at auction.
we are used to her realistic and balanced approach, but i am also pleased to see the importance of climate change.
as we are in the process of negotiations, it seems to me that, with all our differences, which we have heard today, it is nevertheless sensible to open a new chapter, to ensure that the commitments already made are fulfilled, and also to deepen cooperation in the mutual interest, especially in the field of foreign policy and energy.
however, the reform agenda, particularly in the areas of the rule of law, the independence of key institutions and further improving the business environment need to be further developed and implemented.
the report will in particular assess progress made with respect to the key priority of taking steps towards a visible and sustainable improvement of relations with kosovo, in line with the stabilisation and association process.
we are ready to assist serbia and kosovo in order to achieve sustainable and lasting results.
a visible and sustainable improvement in relations between them would avoid any block that may interfere with these efforts.
both serbia and kosovo desperately need their political leaders to dedicate all their time and energy to the reform process.
− i voted in favour of the ship recycling report because ships contain many hazardous materials and every ship that goes from the eu to be broken down is hazardous waste and can therefore only be legally broken down in the oecd at the moment.
according to the commission's impact assessment, in 2009, more than 90% of eu-flagged ships were dismantled outside the oecd, mainly in south asia (india, pakistan and bangladesh), by a so-called 'sanding' method which has significant environmental and health consequences.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
− i would like to thank mr reulu for his extremely important and necessary report on renewable resources.
renewable resources are the real opportunity for europe in the world, the opportunity for new jobs.
we need to send a responsible message to citizens through this report that we support support human health, support environmental health and also the competitiveness of the industry that employs people, especially in this time of crisis.
ms kolarskabobinska, do you support or do you see the need to build conventional resources alongside renewable resources and do you see any major obstacles to the establishment of the internal market in the field of renewable resources?
on friday i was in ljubljana for the annual conference of the acer energy agency, and commissioner oettinger was there too, and the experts reminded us that we must decide whether we want a truly functioning internal energy market or a politically regulated market.
if we want a functioning internal market, then we must take account of the objectives we set ourselves back in the year 2000. what is the aim of the internal energy policy?
and this is sustainable energy.
sustainable energy is not just an energy that covers the environment.
i think it would be much better to say that we are committed to, within climate policy, one goal, to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, that is legally binding and also ambitious.
in this case, this market mechanism would also work under the ets and the internal market would not have the problems it has now with unequal conditions for different energy sources, such as strong subsidies, priority approach and so on.
tax havens are a major problem both in the international environment and within the eu.
− i am here to ensure that the european parliament takes a leading role in shaping decisions for the sustainable development of europe.
by 2050, at least 30% of our energy needs must be met from renewable sources.
we have a political responsibility to create an environment in which the innovation and creativity of individuals and businesses can flourish, in which smes can enter not only the european market but also the global markets, a competitive environment in which knowledge institutions and centres of excellence can interconnect and, with greater power of knowledge, compete in the external market, i.e.
our aim is not to repeat the familiar euro-atlantic mantra, but to contribute to consolidating peace, further developing democracy, more sustainable economic development and good governance in the region and globally through a broader, inclusive partnership.
i support the withdrawal of co2 permits, although i'm not the type of person who would blame every storm on carbon dioxide.
i'm a realist who knows that without energy, we can't have light.
i support an environment that will allow more health for europeans, because according to all the statistics, we are getting sicker and sicker.
and i support technologies that are good for people and the environment.
i opposed this commission proposal from the outset, because the ets was not a system designed to fill empty national budgets, because we will achieve environmental objectives, and because the withdrawal of permits means a higher energy cost, both for the economy and for citizens.
the first is that the european commission can only propose and withdraw permits after carefully considering the impact on carbon leakage.
the second amendment calls for the impact of the different support schemes for renewable energy sources on the carbon price in the ets to be taken seriously and for the european commission to propose mechanisms to avoid the overlapping of european legislation.
− those of us who are aware of the importance of europe's development towards energy independence from carbon sources have achieved a key victory in reviving the european mechanism that promotes this.
the objective of the measure is to revive the european emissions trading system (ets), which is designed to reduce dependence on carbon-based energy sources and is aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to climate change.
the measure was necessary because carbon prices had fallen well below the levels estimated for the optimal functioning of the mechanism, due to an oversupply of carbon allowances on the market caused by the stagnation of the economy.
on the recommendation of the committee on the environment, of which i am a member, the european parliament, including my vote, supported the plans to allow the commission to schedule the auction of allowances with a revised timetable.
the current crisis must not be used as an excuse to block change in the right direction, and by voting we have protected the environment, which is a european union issue, not just a matter for individual member states or individual industrial sectors, and thus safeguarded the functioning of the european mechanism that has already been adopted.
the benefits of energy efficiency have long been recognised as being at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in europe, we are currently facing a major challenge to meet the target of reducing our total energy consumption by 20% by 2020. this is why i believe that policies that promote energy efficiency, such as cohesion policy, can and should play a more prominent role.
with my report, i want to highlight once again the importance of improving energy efficiency, which can make a decisive contribution to european competitiveness, green growth and new jobs with high added value.
at the same time, investments in energy efficiency represent an opportunity in the fight against the economic crisis and adverse climate change.
an analysis of the implementation of energy efficiency measures under cohesion policy so far has shown that the main negative factors remain insufficient information, financial incentives, lack of visibility of energy efficiency measures and, to some extent, inadequate implementation of the legislation in force.
in the light of the already agreed changes to the new legislative framework for cohesion policy 2014-2020, we have therefore put forward a number of suggestions in the report on how to tackle energy efficiency in the next seven-year financial framework.
cohesion policy is one of the eu's main levers for getting the european economy back on track as soon as possible and achieving the 2020 energy efficiency target.
it is essential that member states understand the use of european energy efficiency funds as an investment potential and not as a cost.
in particular, the upcoming dedicated allocation of european regional development fund funds will allow for the creation of stable, long-term programmes for energy efficiency improvements.
the involvement of all levels of governance in the implementation of energy efficiency policy is crucial and in the future more will need to be done to ensure that national, regional and local strategies and plans in the areas of energy efficiency, cohesion and the environment are better aligned with the objectives of the european union, which has not been the case until now.
we also need to ensure that when building and renovating social housing, we make sure that we address energy poverty in concrete ways.
− the commission has proposed enhancing incentives for the best performing biofuels, thereby improving the greenhouse gas savings for the overall biofuel mix used in the eu by 2020 compared to fossil fuels.
the current approach to reducing emissions in the union is problematic.
these are mainly expressed through the energy system.
let me mention two problems in energy.
the other problem, of course, is the high cost of energy.
in shaping policies for 2030, we must not repeat the mistakes we made in climate and energy policy for 2020. we have to go back to square one.
this was to reduce emissions by taking a market-based approach in the energy and industrial sectors, because this approach is also the most cost-effective.
reducing emissions must be our primary objective, stronger than subsidies.
so i am advocating for one clear, legally binding target to reduce emissions, taking into account, of course, international responsibility for climate change.
however, the proposals for amendments to the existing directive are primarily concerned with environmental requirements.
some are good, but i must mention those that i do not agree with, because they do not seem to me to be viable, they represent an administrative burden on the economy and at the same time do not represent any gain for the environment.
biodiversity and early stage studies in case of research have already been mentioned.
the third thing that i think is important is that the new requirements require the project promoter to carry out an environmental development study even in the event that the project is not implemented.
the investor must carry out a pre- and post-project assessment, which shows the environmental impact of the project.
and let me say, it's good to make sure that the public gets adequate and relevant information about the environmental impact of the project.
it's the best way to protect the environment.
− we must complete the internal energy market by the middle of next year.
thus, the rules in the remit regulation provide that the agency for the coordination of energy regulators, i.e.
the amount of the budget should reflect the size of the european energy market, as well as the high level of confidence in acer and the importance we attached to the agency when adopting the remit regulation.
to name a few: the creation of a european register of energy market players, the increased scope of the agency's market monitoring tasks, the establishment of close links with large organised markets, the publication of data by acer and the provision of a non-commercially sensitive trader database for scientific purposes, closer cooperation with other institutions, in particular the esmo and the financial markets supervisory authority.
however, we all know that failure to implement the provisions of the remit regulation would jeopardise the integrity and transparency of our electricity and gas markets and thus the inability to ensure that energy prices are determined by market supply and demand.
if we are serious about the internal market, then the energy market is certainly one of the pillars.
do we really want to control the energy market in europe and, of course, have more reasonable prices for consumers?
if this is the case, then the €200 billion planned for the next 10 years for investment in energy infrastructure is probably the equivalent of what acer costs.
and i really hope that this issue will start to play its part and that it will also create some new jobs in the environment, which is of great importance today, during the crisis, and reduce the euroscepticism that you know is already so prevalent everywhere today.
the amendment of the battery directive brings great advances for the environment, health and end-users, and in particular added value for the innovative industry.
the european commission was invited to review and renew the existing directive in order to update it in the light of new technological developments and in the light of the environmental and health impacts.
it is also released into the environment through improper handling of waste portable batteries.
the aim of climate policy is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and in europe we have the unfortunate fact that if we look at our society as a whole, as much as we consume, we are still increasing emissions.
so i think we need to be more self-critical, and i would ask mr. leinen if he knows this fact and how he thinks we should take action to actually start reducing emissions, not just on the production side, but on the whole, as a society.
nor has the fifth assessment report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change, or ipcc, been heard, although the warnings of scientists are very worrying.
certainly not reducing emissions.
if that does not happen, i will vote against the resolution, even though i am a supporter of environmentally conscious behaviour and precisely because i have been advocating for good and effective climate policy for many years.
the partnership between the member states of the european union and the eastern partners must be based above all on the principle of sound democracy, on the pursuit of sustainable economic development and on the care for the good or excellent crossborder relations we have had so far.
respect for human rights in the region is a key factor in improving the situation and, above all, in improving the quality of life of the inhabitants, which will ultimately benefit the economic and environmental policies of the european union and the region.
health, mentioned alongside energy, climate change and water supply as one of the contemporary challenges, should be considered as a strategic element of security and foreign policy in our communication and cooperation with various partners.
the differences between them sometimes seem big, but they're not really big, and i think that this approach would trigger synergy and new energy in all these countries waiting to join the european union.
the maldives is an important beneficiary of our assistance in the field of climate change as well.
the arrest followed attempts by greenpeace activists to scale an oil rig off russia’s coast to protest against oil production in the fragile arctic environment.
− chairman, mr leškevičius, honourable members of the european parliament, the arrest of the greenpeace crew and the two journalists followed attempts by activists to scale an oil rig off russia’s arctic coast in an attempt to attract attention to the potential impact of economic activities on the fragile arctic environment.
it is one that we should all take very seriously – how to ensure that economic activities in the arctic do not endanger the region’s fragile environment.
climate change is already having a significant impact on the arctic environment, and the exploitation of the region’s natural resources poses an additional threat if it is not carried out in a sustainable way, with all necessary precautions in place and in consultation with the people who live there.
we cannot even begin to imagine the impact that a major oil spill would have on the arctic environment or the difficulties and cost of trying to clean it up.
the eu is keen to step up its engagement with its arctic partners, including russia, to help meet the challenge of safeguarding the environment while ensuring the sustainable development of the arctic region.
they take more freedom than they deserve, and we're just afraid of what they're going to do to nature and the environment.
first of all, i would like to welcome the good practice of the european union, which has been preparing environmental action programmes for many years, because this is how we tell how environmental standards will be updated, and this is something that both national and regional authorities need to know, and it is also important for investors in the economy.
but on the other hand, i also know that when you're making decisions in energy, for example, those decisions are decades in the future.
i also believe that the problem in the union today is not poor legislation or low environmental standards.
i therefore welcome the commission's intention to ensure that the commitments already made are better implemented in all areas of the environmental programme.
i now want to say what i said when we discussed the resolution for cop 19: i am in favour of ambitious but balanced action by the union on climate change.
balanced means taking into account all aspects of sustainable development environmental, economic and social aspects.
therefore, we can only raise our environmental standards further if comparable countries take similar action.
i am also against the environmental programme being used to take decisions which have to be discussed and adopted within the framework of sectoral policies.
i am in favour of committing ourselves to a binding target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the seventh environmental programme.
but i do not agree that we are interfering with energy policy and demanding binding targets for renewable energy and energy efficiency in this document.
− i support the fact that the eu member states enforce eu environmental laws more rigorously, providing security for investments that support environmental policy and efforts to combat climate change, and taking more account of environmental concerns in other policies.
health, mentioned alongside energy, climate change and water supply as one of the contemporary challenges, should be considered as a strategic element of security and foreign policy in our communication and cooperation with various partners.
young people have already paid a high price in the current economic climate and an effective way of transitioning from the education system to the labour market needs to be found.
− due to my participation in the cop19 climate conference in warsaw, i was unable to take part in the votes on the nuclear safety cooperation instrument.
these are mainly smes, innovation, knowledge-based job creation and energy efficiency.
− due to my participation in the cop19 climate conference in warsaw, i was unable to take part in the vote on horizon 2020. i support horizon 2020 as i consider it to be one of the most important instruments for enhancing the competitiveness of the union.
i am particularly pleased that the final document includes a new heading 'spreading excellence and participation', that 20% of the funding in the second and third pillars of the programme is dedicated exclusively to smes, an increased funding for marie skłodowska curie actions for young researchers and a greater focus on the projects 'safe, clean and efficient energy' and 'climate change and resource efficiency'.
− due to my participation in the cop19 climate conference in warsaw, i was unable to take part in the vote on horizon 2020. i support horizon 2020 as i consider it to be one of the most important instruments for enhancing the competitiveness of the union.
i am particularly pleased that the final document includes a new heading 'spreading excellence and participation', that 20% of the funding in the second and third pillars of the programme is dedicated exclusively to smes, an increased funding for marie skłodowska curie actions for young researchers and a greater focus on the projects 'safe, clean and efficient energy' and 'climate change and resource efficiency'.
− due to my participation in the cop19 climate conference in warsaw, i was unable to take part in the vote on horizon 2020. i support horizon 2020 as i consider it to be one of the most important instruments for enhancing the competitiveness of the union.
i am particularly pleased that the final document includes a new heading 'spreading excellence and participation', that 20% of the funding in the second and third pillars of the programme is dedicated exclusively to smes, an increased funding for marie skłodowska curie actions for young researchers and a greater focus on the projects 'safe, clean and efficient energy' and 'climate change and resource efficiency'.
i support the extension of life, since projects in the field of climate change will also be financed in addition to environmental projects, and the introduction of new so-called 'integrated projects' aimed at facilitating the mobilisation and synergies of funds from different funds (structural, cohesion, national and regional level, private investment).
i think that the fact that we don't have enough data on fish stocks, and that we don't actually know exactly what the sustainable fisheries should be like there, is not an argument for not taking action, especially since we have good practices, like in norway.
the next generation of humans will be even more numerous, and we have a responsibility to them for sustainable development.
the effects of such imbalances can be felt daily in our environment.
i was shocked to learn that one year of deep-sea kayaking causes as much environmental damage as a few centuries of paragliding.
when we take them out of their environment and end up not consuming them at all, we upset the natural balance.
− those of us who are aware of the importance of europe's development towards energy independence from carbon sources have achieved a key victory in reviving the european mechanism that promotes this.
the objective of the measure is to revive the european emissions trading system (ets), which is designed to reduce dependence on carbon-based energy sources and is aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to climate change.
the measure was necessary because carbon prices had fallen well below the levels estimated for the optimal functioning of the mechanism, due to an oversupply of carbon allowances on the market caused by the stagnation of the economy.
on the recommendation of the committee on the environment, of which i am a member, the european parliament, including my vote, supported the plans to allow the commission to schedule the auction of allowances with a revised timetable.
the current crisis must not be used as an excuse to block change in the right direction, and by voting we have protected the environment, which is a european union issue not just for individual member states or individual industrial sectors, and thus safeguarded the functioning of the european mechanism that has already been adopted.
the extraordinary popular energy, expressed by the people in the most direct and democratic way, should be the reason for a broad democratic debate on the future of ukraine.
promoting respect for human rights, democracy, the rule of law and good governance, and fostering inclusive and sustainable growth is a key eu task, and the eu remains the world's leading donor for these purposes.