the question of the role that cohesion policy can play in implementing energy policy is one to which my answer is very clear.
my examples come from northern sweden, where six years ago we formulated the regional structural fund programmes for this period, including that we would stimulate the development of sustainable energy solutions.
it resulted in a complete explosion of small businesses and others working in environmental technology and energy conservation; it spread like wildfire, and a lot of new jobs were created in these small businesses.
linking it with innovation work also resulted in the transfer of energy saving innovations in the forestry industry to the tourism industry.
i am absolutely convinced that we can use cohesion policy to implement sustainable solutions and, moreover, to create jobs.
we need a renewal of urban development that can help create more rents and new jobs, while respecting the living environment and tackling climate change in the building plans.
if any form of joint borrowing is to be successfully implemented, it must be done in a well-designed and controlled manner so that the new mechanisms really contribute to greater stability and sustainability.
we do not need any major increase, but we do need a budget strong enough to match crucial priorities, investments in sustainability, growth and jobs, particularly youth unemployment and infrastructure, as well as to play a major role in the world.
ensure that we carry out the reforms regarding telecoms, regarding the energy market, regarding the digital economy, which can give us the leadership.
now we hear many advocates of compulsory origin labelling talking about safety and working conditions and the environment, but we all know that the differences are often greater between factories in the same country than they can be between countries.
the second extremely important aspect of agricultural policy is the environment.
in this case, it is a matter of preserving europe's biodiversity, and we must do so in all the unusual areas that exist: the islands, the mountainous regions, the narrow strips of land along the rivers of northern europe.
this is central to our human survival because it is about preserving biodiversity, genetic diversity for the future.
that is clearly not sustainable.
the commissioner has made it clear that if the eu does not radically reform its common fisheries policy now, only eight out of all the commercially exploited fish stocks will be at sustainable levels in 2022. that would mean importing more and fishing more elsewhere, and just going on destroying what is left of our once-abundant seas.
in the barents sea, if they had aimed to keep the cod stock at maximum sustainable yield (msy) levels they would now only have half a million tonnes of spawning stock biomass there.
member states have not thought it ‘possible’ to set quotas at sustainable levels over the last 30 years, so why would they now think it is possible?
the eu should show leadership on sustainable fisheries to the rest of the world.
first of all: we have to stop the waste of completely edible fish being thrown overboard.
we need a ban on this to ensure sustainable fishing.
secondly, as regards the maximum sustainable yield (msy): today, two out of three fish species are overfished.
to achieve sustainable fisheries that respect our ecosystems, we need to take important steps today.
i'm glad we can put an end to the predatory fishing and have a sustainable policy.
it is a growing market in northern europe and we must ensure that it is done in a sustainable way.
it creates jobs, but it has to be done in an environmentally sustainable way, and there we have a job to do to say what is sustainable and what is not.
we must not destroy what we have in sweden, which is very good, namely local fisheries management areas where all stakeholders are involved and take responsibility and own the issue of sustainable fishing in their area.
transporting products from french guiana in south america and from the azores in the middle of the atlantic to a european market is neither market nor environmentally sustainable.
agricultural policies also lead to a huge waste of resources, contribute to environmental degradation and to the poor export prospects of agricultural products from many countries in the global south.
an increase in consumer awareness means that consumers will want to buy from companies that are acting in a fair and sustainable way as good citizens.
at the same time, we know that the automotive industry is going through a tough time, and we also know that they have another very big challenge ahead of them, which is to transition to more climate-smart technology and reduce carbon emissions.
thirdly, a modernisation programme able to address our priorities like research, youth unemployment, infrastructure and climate policies.
we supported the ambitious proposal of the european parliament's committee on the environment, and although important parts of the proposal were not supported, we voted in favour of the report.
i think the council of ministers should agree in advance and have alternative plans for all possible outcomes and then, when we come to these meetings, all the ministers should spread the message of active global climate action.
because, frankly, global climate action is a total failure, and i don't think a simple tech fix is going to do it.
we need to extract efficiency gains in terms of more time, quality of life and intangible assets to have a chance of solving the climate challenge.
it is not right that the commissioner should be forced to stand in doha and say that it is okay when member states cheat with climate aid, i.e.
rename an old ordinary aid to climate aid.
the commissioner must have the help of the rest of us to ensure that we have a functioning emissions trading system that does not collapse, while we have an extension of the kyoto protocol.
the fact is that this parliament has its most important task on climate.
it is growth policy, industrial policy, energy policy, family policy - all these are crucial to building society.
if we could, with the help of intensified eu cooperation in this area, start to push that figure downwards, it would be of great importance for the stability and sustainability of public finances.
we have also seen how emissions trading can make billions disappear in just a few moments.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
we have a social climate that sees both science and technology as complicated and threatening.
it is important that we get these reporting and statistical rules in place to be able to follow up and also have a good basis for future climate decisions at all political levels.
as rapporteur for the committee on development, i also think it is very good that the amount of climate aid given by the member states is now being reported in a way that is understandable to the outside world, and not least to the developing countries.
in this context, i should also like to express my regret that we are not getting the other criticism that is usually levelled at us industrialised countries straight, namely that we take money from poverty relief to finance climate aid, that is to say that we take with one hand and give with the other.
we should have made progress here and i can only hope that in the future we will actually give climate aid in addition to what we already give in poverty reduction aid.
what hurts climate policy is the disagreement between different countries within the eu and outside the eu, but just as serious, as has been pointed out here, is the inability to follow up on decisions already taken.
to meet the climate targets and commitments that the eu member states have signed up to, we need accurate data, we need to have the facts about what is actually being done and what the results of the measures are.
it has been difficult to compare, difficult to evaluate and now we are hopefully changing this, in particular with the proposal we are now discussing on mechanisms for monitoring and reporting emissions of greenhouse gases, among other things, which i, as the socialist shadow rapporteur, support.
this proposal will make it possible to follow up the member states' commitments in the field of climate and energy.
the reporting and monitoring shall also be extended to renewable energy.
it may sound simple and it may sound obvious, but if we want to put climate policy into practice, we cannot stop at pretty words and we are not doing that now.
this is part of the climate debate to a very large extent, namely the leak.
we must ensure that we have a comprehensive global agreement that does not move jobs to countries with lower wages, with poor working conditions or with climate emissions.
as a member of both the industry and environment committees, i see the issue of climate as a competitive one.
the only way we can compete is to be climate-smart.
as regards the details of all these programmes, i must say that there are some details which i am particularly pleased about, and these are local logistics chains - particularly in the more vulnerable villages - the animal welfare is clearly on the rise, the ecological corridors now seem to be becoming a reality.
that is why we social democrats have tabled amendments to restore the erosion of environmental rules, the so-called cross-compliance: the compulsory introduction of a greener use of direct payments.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
it is just as, for example, the eu environment agency has emphasised high time to act now.
the proposal is not sufficient to fund the growth and jobs package, not sufficient to fund the europe 2020 strategy for sustainable growth, and not sufficient for the necessary development aid to meet the millennium development goals.
now, more than ever, we must provide the european union with the necessary and well-targeted means to invest for the future in research and development, in infrastructure, climate and energy policies, improving education, fighting youth unemployment and promoting the eu’s role in the world.
ukraine needs the authorities to create an environment that is conducive to dialogue as strongly as it needs a constructive opposition that can fully assume its responsibility towards the ukrainian people.
the income stabilization tool encourages mismanagement and takes money away from the good environmental measures that we otherwise take for granted.
the income stabilization tool encourages mismanagement and takes money away from the good environmental measures that we otherwise take for granted.
the requirement for farmers to comply with current environmental and animal welfare legislation in order to qualify for aid, which we consider to be of great importance.
the requirement for farmers to comply with current environmental and animal welfare legislation in order to qualify for aid, which we consider to be of great importance.
however, all indications are that the eu will nonetheless meet its 2020 emissions target.
a review of climate policy is therefore welcome, particularly with regard to the period after 2020. however, for market participants and third countries to have confidence in the eu ets, stable rules of the game are essential.
the eu is committed to renewable energy, but cannot expect to meet all its needs.
industry and investors need to know that there are long-term solutions to the energy needs of the future.
the eu needs to invest in energy-efficient and green alternatives but also be critical, for example, to shale gas.
the pursuit of renewable energy must not put our environment and human health at risk.'
another solution: if we want security and guarantees, can we also agree to a minimum price for carbon dioxide quotas?
we all know that a carbon tax is the most effective and fair solution.
many environmental investments will not be profitable.
if we do not remove these quotas, we will have to implement other, more expensive climate measures elsewhere.
when the european parliament delegation met the chinese representative at the recent climate summit in doha, we received a surprisingly straightforward message.
china may be considering putting the plane under the emissions trading scheme.
europe and the eu can respond to competition and structural changes in the market in much better, more efficient and more sustainable ways in the long term.
europe and the eu can respond to competition and structural changes in the market in much better, more efficient and more sustainable ways in the long term.
europe and the eu can respond to competition and structural changes in the market in much better, more efficient and more sustainable ways in the long term.
− the projections show that greenhouse gas emissions will fall by more than the 21% target for 2020. however, the excessive free allocation of allowances and the decreases in emissions due to the economic crisis have led to an accumulation of surplus allowances with very low prices as a consequence.
energy prices are high, though.
however, it is important to signal to the market that europe's climate goals are valid and that the ets is the most important tool to achieve the goal.
we would therefore welcome a review of climate policy with an emphasis on the period after 2020 in order to ensure a more stable carbon market and that europe reaches the 2050 target.
− the projections show that greenhouse gas emissions will fall by more than the 21% target for 2020. however, the excessive free allocation of allowances and the decreases in emissions due to the economic crisis have led to an accumulation of surplus allowances with very low prices as a consequence.
energy prices are high, though.
however, it is important to signal to the market that europe's climate goals are valid and that the ets is the most important tool to achieve the goal.
we would therefore welcome a review of climate policy with an emphasis on the period after 2020 in order to ensure a more stable carbon market and that europe reaches the 2050 target.
− i am in principle against the ets system and a market-driven approach to combating climate change.
however, the current reality is that voting against the backloading measures would be a political signal to stop investing in reduced carbon technologies and also send a political signal that climate change policies are no longer a priority.
instead, i would like to give a political signal in favour of policies combating climate change, and therefore i have voted in favour of the groote report.
sustainable and lasting reform is needed, in particular with regard to tackling organised crime and cases of corruption, including at senior level.
the aim of this is to deal with the massive market failure that is the vast majority of ships being scrapped illegally, in contravention of the 14-year-old basel ban on the export of hazardous waste.
therefore, its aim is to make the market work well again and to protect workers and the environment.
the eu's 20% renewable energy target is only valid until 2020. that means we have to be in a hurry if we want to give the states and the market planning preconditions.
should they invest in renewable energy or should they invest in coal power and shale gas?
the best method we know of to stimulate renewables is binding targets for renewable energy deployment.
we know that it is possible to increase the share of renewable energy.
we are deciding on the future energy market, the future energy consumption and production, and we cannot just look backwards.
i am worried about tomorrow and the future of the energy market.
renewable energy is good for the environment, everyone understands that.
secondly, i would also like to stress the importance of local and resilient energy systems.
renewable energy can be produced by anyone, it breaks the monopoly of the big companies, and we can finally have energy democracy.
it could be a continuous source of energy.
45% by 2030 is a realistic target, and it is a good target for europe's people, europe's environment and europe's industry.
it's a waste of capital and a waste of the environment and a risk-taking like no other.
in fact, the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning is crucial to generating long-term sustainable growth.
- we voted today in the european parliament for a report on sustainable pensions in the long term.
- we voted today in the european parliament for a report on sustainable pensions in the long term.
in this period of new engagement, sustainability of reforms and livelihoods must also be the main focus of eu business interests in the country.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of radioactive substances.
it is very important that the commission now pays particular attention to the energy sector.
the eu needs a common energy market, which is efficient, flexible and competitive.
we need it to cope with the competitive and difficult energy market of the future.
i would like to pay tribute to his energy, commitment and determination.
− harmonised rules on vehicle inspections both increase road safety and reduce the negative environmental impact of road traffic.
mc accidents are mainly due to driver error, road environmental deficiencies or inattentive road users, not technical errors.
i would like to thank the members of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, in particular you, mr pargneaux.
second, the decision provides for risk assessments on the impact of chemical and environmental threats on people’s health.
the commission will, as a priority, have recourse to the scientific committees established by commission decision 2008/721/ec of 5 september 2008 setting up an advisory structure of scientific committees and experts in the field of consumer safety, public health and the environment and repealing decision 2004/210/ec.
i believe that the revenue should go to the member states' own budgets and be reserved for climate and employment measures and for various forms of aid to developing countries.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
of course, the importance of energy efficiency should be emphasised, energy efficiency in, among other things, buildings is a key part of becoming a more sustainable society.
... all anthropogenic mortality (recreational and commercial fishing, hydropower, pollution) affecting ... eels should be reduced to as close to zero as possible’.
a lot of things are at stake here, not only the survival of the eel but also the credibility of the eu as a serious player on the international arena, promoting sustainable fisheries and even imposing trade sanctions on third countries that allow unsustainable fisheries.
even though some fishermen might see themselves as being sustainable, when we have a 99% decline in the eel stock and we do not have any criteria for or monitoring of the conditions of restocking, it is very difficult to call a fishery sustainable today.
in 2008, parliament voted in favour of including indirect land use change (iluc) of which greenhouse gas emission reductions attributable to biofuels.
the directive prevents land from being converted from food production to energy crops, which is positive both from the climate and food supply point of view.
i welcome environmental and climate requirements on biofuels, but at the same time there are many other activities that have an impact on climate and land use.
the residues from the forestry and pulp industries represent a major potential for reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
mass unemployment in the eu can only be effectively tackled by an expansionary and sustainable economic policy.
mass unemployment in the eu can only be effectively tackled by an expansionary and sustainable economic policy.
all of the rapporteur’s amendments were subsequently adopted by the lead committee – and such an agreement between the fisheries committee and the environment committee is rarer still.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
they worry about human rights, environmental impact, social impact, but most of all they worry about chinese companies competing with european companies and jobs.
however, we cannot ignore the fact that china has human rights and environmental impact problems.
what you buy when you buy a battery is the amount of energy.
− mr president, the climate negotiations which are looming are crucial.
then europe can show the way, by having pledges that will make others believe in our climate policies and that will make others find solutions to their own climate policies and our policies, and that will show the way forward.
the question calls for ambitious 2030 targets for greenhouse gas emissions, energy efficiency and renewables.
one very efficient policy that we can all successfully implement is phasing out the global carbon subsidies which exist, and we have the pittsburgh g20 agreement to get rid of all those inefficient subsidies.
but as regards this trip to save the world and the climate, not even an olympic gold-medallist in the long jump could jump the gap between what we need to do and current policies.
we also need to pass ambitious co2 emissions requirements for cars and lcvs and to make sure they are implemented.
as long as we are constantly chasing down an underdog to reach the goals we have set, every climate summit is of tremendous importance.
then there's the gloomy news of climate change.
we got a report from the un climate panel that also shows that the trend is still going in the wrong direction.
the emissions trading act, for example, needs to work better.
we need to use climate change as a competitive tool.
we can't compete with other parts of the world unless we get better at climate resilience.
despite the lack of acceptance of science by colleagues up there, the new ipcc report shows that climate change is indeed another result of human activity.
our success story here in the north is the result of gigantic emissions and a religious belief in constant economic growth.
so climate change is having a devastating effect in countries where women's power is already small.
climate change doesn't happen overnight, it's a long process, but it's affecting millions of women and men already today.
in warsaw, therefore, the eu must acknowledge that we have a historic debt, we in the west, that there must always be a gender perspective in the negotiations and that climate adaptation is a necessary measure.
on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
we have three in environment, one in agriculture and also the coming fishery ones.
we should, therefore, vote ‘minus’ on all three if you agree with what the committee on the environment, public health and food safety wants to do.
as long as too many people are looking for cheap cigarettes without asking where they come from, looking for better odds on illegal gambling sites or handing over environmentally hazardous waste cheaply without asking questions, organized crime is being fed with money.
the eu's neighbourhood policy is our main instrument for strengthening the partnership between ourselves and our neighbours, for building and consolidating healthy democracies and for pursuing sustainable growth.
at the same time, we have a sea in crisis and we must now ensure that the development of europe's seas, including the fishing industry, is reversed so that it is sustainable in the long term.
if we can avoid such mistakes, we are now close to having a sustainable fisheries reform based on three pillars: a regulation based on sustainability criteria; a fisheries fund used to support fish rather than boats, which is also necessary for future fishermen; and a fisheries agreement with mauritania that should become a model for coming agreements.
as we vote on the eu fisheries fund, it is important to remember the principles of sustainable fisheries that we agreed earlier this year.
the detention by russia of peaceful non-violent activists from an international environmental organisation in international waters is a threat to democracy, a threat to freedom of expression and a threat to the right to demonstrate.
on monday we discussed in this house the forthcoming cop in poland, and expectations of that meeting seem almost non-existent, perhaps because we have not lived up to the standards that can be expected in international environmental negotiations.
we also welcome a reduction in funding for iter and similar energy programmes to better combat youth unemployment and to fund humanitarian aid to crisis-affected countries.
− we believe that it is justified to review the eu's climate objectives for the period ahead, not least to strengthen emissions trading.
sweden and the eu have a successful climate policy that has gradually reduced greenhouse gas emissions.
sweden's emissions are now 20% lower than in 1990, and the eu accounts for 10% of global emissions.
meanwhile, much of the world is doing nothing to reduce emissions.
global emissions have increased by 50 percent since 1990. if the world is to achieve the two-degree target, it is not enough for sweden and the eu to act, other countries must take their share of responsibility.
the eu's strategy for this has been a conditional 30% emissions target by 2020 if the rest of the world raises its ambitions.
a first step is to require all countries to report the latest emissions figures.
it is the wrong way to go, and would have devastating consequences for the environment, trade, growth and development.
− i have voted in favour of amendment 6 to the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the cfsp because the amendment stresses that international trade needs to be based on social rights and standards on health, environment and labour conditions.
climate change is also being ignored with large investments in highways and fossil energy.
the large agricultural policy item is also directly unfriendly to the environment.
a large part of the structural funds supports the construction of motorways, and the eu still invests large sums in projects with inoperative fusion power rather than putting the money into developing renewable energy sources.
in an economic crisis, the eu could have reallocated scarce resources to invest in the future, research, energy efficiency and investments in and for our young people.
a large part of the structural funds supports the construction of motorways, and the eu still invests large sums in the project of inoperative fusion power instead of putting the money into developing renewable energy sources.
in an economic crisis, the eu could have reallocated scarce resources to invest in the future, research, energy efficiency and investing in and for our young people.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
europe and the eu can respond to competition and structural changes in the market in much better, more efficient and more sustainable ways in the long term.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of radioactive waste, which is a key element in the protection of the environment.
because now we are supposed to use the funds as instruments to implement eu policies on innovation, infrastructure, climate action, energy efficiency.
this is a waste of not only expertise but also money.
in fact, it doesn't matter if we have three, five, seven or 10 percent, what matters is that we create corridors in the farming landscape where the ecological system services can flourish.
i am disappointed that so much continues to go to direct direct aid and so little to payment for environmental services.
my personal dream is to have an agricultural policy where farmers are paid for their environmental services and where it is even profitable to stand up for our collective interests.
i do not deny that there are a number of positive projects that have been launched with the support of these funds, but it is also true that the most widespread fraud and waste within the eu is done with funds from the funds.
i do not deny that there are a number of positive projects that have been launched with the support of these funds, but it is also true that the most widespread fraud and waste within the eu is done with funds from the funds.
i do not deny that there are a number of positive projects that have been launched with the support of these funds, but it is also true that the most widespread fraud and waste within the eu is done with funds from the funds.
i do not deny that there are a number of positive projects that have been launched with the support of these funds, but it is also true that the most widespread fraud and waste within the eu is done with funds from the funds.
eu agricultural policy must deliver greater benefits for the environment and society at large.
we would therefore like to see more money diverted from direct aid to active measures that benefit the environment and develop rural areas.
the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
such policies address vital issues such as the environment, climate, rural development, organic farming, improved animal welfare and solidarity with the global south.
eu agricultural policy must deliver greater benefits for the environment and society at large.
we would therefore like to see more money diverted from direct aid to active measures that benefit the environment and develop rural areas.
the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
such policies address vital issues such as the environment, climate, rural development, organic farming, improved animal welfare and solidarity with the global south.
eu agricultural policy must deliver greater benefits for the environment and society at large.
we would therefore like to see more money diverted from direct aid to active measures that benefit the environment and develop rural areas.
the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
such policies address vital issues such as the environment, climate, rural development, organic farming, improved animal welfare and solidarity with the global south.
eu agricultural policy must deliver greater benefits for the environment and society at large.
we would therefore like to see more money diverted from direct aid to active measures that benefit the environment and develop rural areas.
the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
such policies address vital issues such as the environment, climate, rural development, organic farming, improved animal welfare and solidarity with the global south.
- we chose to vote against the agreement on direct payments for agricultural policy because we are very critical of the fact that the budget for direct payments is unchanged, while rural development aid, including the important environmental aid, is being reduced.
eu agricultural policy must deliver greater benefits for the environment and society at large.
we would therefore like to see more money diverted from direct aid to active measures that benefit the environment and develop rural areas.
the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
such policies address vital issues such as the environment, climate, rural development, organic farming, improved animal welfare and solidarity with the global south.
they do not understand why, or accept that, we waste eur 150 million and 19 000 tonnes of co2 every year on the travelling circus between brussels and strasbourg.
i am also glad that we have a clear focus on green transition and green energy and that we are also highlighting the gender aspect of the programme.
i am therefore pleased with the horizon programme, i am pleased with the kick-offs, i am pleased with the renewable energy and energy efficiency programme which i very much hope will be implemented.
at the same time, the number of storms continues to increase, biodiversity is declining, and the oceans are becoming over-fertile.
life is a programme that seeks to bring about change at home and to contribute to increased environmental awareness.
the eu must continue to take more responsibility for protecting biodiversity and reducing global warming.
- life is an environment programme with a great deal of responsibility, which seeks to transform the eu into an ecologically sustainable society.
the gue and the environmental movement demanded 1% of the eu budget but received only a fraction of the sum.
however, i chose to vote in favour of the proposal because life is a necessary and functioning eu programme to achieve sustainable development.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
this is a slightly revolutionary change from a much-discussed destructive fisheries policy that has given the eu a bad name around the world, and i am very proud to say that it is the european parliament, the environmental movement and also us in the green group who have been driving this reform.
any new decision in the fisheries sector must respect the new sustainability principles.
we have some decisions to make, including on deep sea fishing, where i hope we can stick to the basic principle of sustainability and establish a ban on the most harmful deep sea radiation.
if we can put the final pieces of the puzzle together, i think we can proudly say that we have shaped a much more sustainable fisheries policy for the future, environmentally and economically.
− the eu-ivory coast fisheries agreement is a standard agreement which is a good step towards a more sustainable fisheries policy.
europe and the eu can respond to competition and structural changes in the market in much better, more efficient and more sustainable ways in the long term.
this involves developing eu-level standards for green labelling of products and services, taking measures to raise consumer awareness of the importance of buying green products, developing environmental standards for public procurement and developing strategies to match the skills of the workforce with demand in the green sector.