i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. before i turn to the valletta summit and the maltese presidency, a quick word on the current situation. the circus and the struggle for power and influence is largely over. we have a new president. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is not a sign of a lean european administration. but you can do that with your own prestige. to the new president: you have a majority, that's to be accepted no question. i would just like to say that i hope that you, mr president, will maintain an equidistance with all the groups in this house and that justice will be done in all directions here too, and not act with partisan glasses, as your predecessor, mr schulz, did. what i see in malta is a continuation of the policy of the past. you try something, you try to curb illegal immigration. all right, that's all right. but the real key to a good future is to say that we are keeping the people in the region themselves, that we are taking the means that we are using here to help the people on the ground, so that we do not continue to act as a sort of magnet for people who want to come to europe - that has been neglected so far. i also miss the fact that the european employment strategy is finally being taken seriously here. there are a lot of conferences on lgbti, but what is missing is creating effective workplace measures. that would be a key to finding a good future here in europe.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the eu budget will no longer be financed by contributions from the member states' budgets but directly by taxes. this is the conclusion reached today by mario monti in a report drawn up in his capacity as chairman of the high level group on own resources, on behalf of the council and the commission. mr monti considers a number of energy and climate-related taxes and levies to be suitable for financing the eu, but also business and transport taxes are suitable as sources of revenue for the eu budget: a harmonised corporate tax, a uniform vat, a bank levy - banks will be happy to see another levy - and the financial transaction tax discussed today, which can be a very important item for a budgetary statement. the financial transaction tax is intended to be a progressive tax on financial transactions in securities and derivatives, to be introduced by the 10 member states as part of enhanced cooperation, as mentioned above. there is no eu-wide solution currently planned, nor is there a global solution, which would be the best. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the tax on financial transactions is not applied to all transactions. the tax could bring in up to 35 billion a year, with a wide scope and a very low rate, combine both a regulatory and a financial purpose, and be a bubbling source of revenue for mr montis's european tax plans. the reality is different: the tax will not be determined in january this year either, unfortunately, because there is no impact assessment for banks and insurance companies, financial service providers and pension funds. the financial transaction tax is unfortunately not yet ready for the practical test and hopefully never will be ready as an eu central tax.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. rich people get richer, poor people get poorer. very rich people are getting shamelessly richer, and very poor people - and a lot of poor people - are getting shamelessly poorer. we've all seen this this week with the oxfam study. it's embarrassing, you know? the financial transaction tax is the right means of redistribution, the right means of greater equality. we are also about to enter the tenth year of the crisis - the banking, financial and speculative crisis. and here again, the financial transaction tax is the perfect anti-speculation measure. that is why we voted overwhelmingly in this house to accept this project. anything that is really effective - and the financial transaction tax is so effective - obviously takes a long time and has many opponents. so my message to you, representatives of the maltese presidency - of course we know that malta is not involved in this now - is my call to you to create the conditions so that the increased cooperation of the willing - and this is your task now - is actually possible, so that all those who want to work on making this financial transaction tax a reality also have the conditions so that it can be achieved in the near future. and i'm convinced that we can do it. it's gonna take a while, but we'll get through this. (the speaker declined to answer a question from mr coburn under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. last week, heavy snowfall occurred all over europe. many people were happy about this, but the tens of thousands of refugees in greece and the balkans suffered a terrible catastrophe. we saw terrible images. we are very moved and angry about this and that is why we have called for this debate today. but we must not just talk, we must act. i welcome the presence of the commissioner responsible. it is good to hear that the appropriate funds are to be made available. what we've been warning about has come to pass. and the problem is deeper. the reason for this is that the people from greece have still not been able to be relocated, despite the willingness to do so. the accommodation is disastrous, the bureaucratic mess is appalling, and the commissioner responsible, avramopoulos, promises us every time that something will change in the next few weeks. but nothing ever changes. i think we really need to take this problem seriously, we really need to get down to the task of setting up a task force to finally get this process going.
digitalisation has now taken over every aspect of our lives, and it does not matter whether it is personal or professional. reliable data protection and maximum security are major challenges, but at the same time they represent enormous economic potential. digitalisation poses challenges for a wide range of sectors, and no sector of the economy seems to be exempt. new innovative business models, especially in the field of smes, are being created and represent added value for the economy and society. however, cyber threats and hacking are also on the rise and are becoming a huge threat to critical network infrastructures, such as power supply. this is where we need to act to ensure network and information security (nis). data protection is also central to competitiveness. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the fragmentation of individual sectors such as security, transparency and the location of users and data is also to be considered critically. fragmentation in the data economy is not efficient and should therefore be rejected, as should internet censorship and mass surveillance.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i would like to ask for an item to be included in the agenda for our group. you said it before, under the agenda item "travel restrictions for the president of the united states". we are talking about the eu intelligence analysis centre (intcen) what a great name for an intelligence agency. this service was created in total darkness. there is no legal basis for this service. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also unique in the world that such an intelligence service cannot be controlled by parliament. in this context, i propose that my group discuss the role of intcen in general and in particular in relation to the attempted coup in turkey in july 2016. i know it's a long day today, but i would suggest that we deal with this agenda item with one speaker only.
in writing. the new american president has not yet signed a document that has direct implications for europe, but indirect ones: we have seen this in his decree that citizens from seven muslim countries are no longer allowed to enter the usa with the result that even at the airport in vienna people from iran who had a valid entry visa were stranded. should we now deny accreditation to the new american ambassador to the eu, or should we not even invite president trump to europe until he lifts the travel ban? these proposals have also been discussed. i believe that europe should not retaliate with a similar measure, not least because our refugee policy is not exactly a model project. no, europe must stand on its own feet, move closer together - this too creates heat to counteract the cold that flows across the atlantic. and that's not how long donald trump's presidency may last. i am not the only one who says that there could be a process of dismissal before the end of the first term. that might get rid of donald trump, but it would slide the united states from this pre-revolutionary phase into an even worse crisis.
in writing. the emotional debate surrounding the travel restrictions imposed by the us presidential executive order requires putting facts on the table: there is no blanket ban on muslims entering the us, but rather a 90-day ban on people from seven muslim countries. these are iran, iraq, libya, somalia, sudan, syria and yemen. the selection of these seven countries has a special background, because back in 2011, trump's predecessor, barack obama, suspended visas for iraqi refugees for six months. the countries mentioned have been identified by the obama administration as "sources of terrorism". the trump administration has exempted dual nationals from this ban. there are good reasons to criticise this undifferentiated immigration policy; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the community's ships is not compromised. it is also worth mentioning that since 1948 israelis have been banned from entering 16 muslim countries. most of these are in the affected group of countries. and president trump said, "let me be clear: this is not a muslim curse. this isn't about religion, this is about terrorism and protecting our country. if the "safe" measures are put in place in the next 90 days, the us will resume issuing visas to these countries.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i would like to congratulate you, commissioner šefčovič, on your initiative for the energy union, because i believe that you are making a very important contribution to bringing the objectives of the energy union closer to the member states of the european union and to the european citizens. the objectives of the energy union are important, namely to increase the security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness of the member states, towards a resource-efficient economy, decentralised models and modern generation technology - as you said: to contribute to the modernisation of the economy with new investment platforms. perhaps we could also take up what mr tamburrano said. they have now proposed a modernisation fund of eur 10 billion under the new winter package. i think that is very important, as are the ambitious objectives of the winter package, namely to make europe the world leader in renewable energy, to increase energy efficiency by 30% and to focus on the consumer so that the consumer can benefit from lower prices. i will just mention the design of the eco-market and the enormous investment potential for companies. i think it is a good cause and you, commissioner, are a good promoter of it.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, female genital mutilation (fgm) is one of the most serious grievous forms of violence against women. i am strongly committed to eliminating this practice. i stand for zero tolerance for it and i call on all of you to join me in this. i welcome the opportunity to discuss it with you today, ahead of the international day of zero tolerance for fgm on 6 february. the estimated figures are really shocking, with half a million women and girls being victims of fgm in europe, and 125 million worldwide. thousands of girls are at risk of fgm. i would like to update you today on what the commission has done in this area since we last discussed this serious issue in 2015. we have been following the 2013 action plan, the communication ‘towards the elimination of fgm’, and its five defined priorities: improving data collection and knowledge, prevention, prosecution, protection and eliminating fgm worldwide. in the strategic engagement for gender equality we commit ourselves to continue with the implementation of the measures set out in the communication. i am proud to announce that this week a complex web-based knowledge platform, which serves as an online eu-wide multilingual resource and education centre for professionals, has been launched. it provides easily—accessible and culturally—appropriate information and support to professionals from diverse backgrounds across the eu. the aim is to raise awareness of fgm, to effectively deliver victim support and to protect women and girls living with, or at risk of, fgm. we reach out to all relevant professionals, including nurses, doctors, midwives, lawyers, judges, prosecutors, police officers, asylum officers, teachers, social workers, child protection professionals and also reporters and journalists. this project has gone live, also due the commitment of parliament to this cause. i count on your further support to ensure a wide dissemination of the information on this new tool. in addition, together with the european institute for gender equality, we have developed a methodology to estimate the risk of fgm in different member states, and we have funded a prevalence study to get more understanding of the phenomenon. we are working on the revision of the eu guidelines on the promotion and protection of the rights of the child. preventive and protective measures against fgm are foreseen to be part of the recommendations towards member states, notably with regard to children in migration. we are enforcing a correct and timely implementation of the victims’ rights directive, which is of particular importance for victims of gender-based violence, including fgm, as it ensures access to free-of-charge and confidential specialist support services, including trauma support and counselling. in the proposed amendments to the common european asylum system we strengthen the safeguards for protection of persons with specific needs, including women applicants who have experienced gender-based harm. access to medical care, legal support and appropriate trauma counselling and psychosocial care is to be ensured. the european asylum support office has developed a practical support tool for the identification of persons with special needs and applies a training module on gender, gender identity and sexual orientation to officers. last, but not least, we are funding transnational projects that combat harmful practices such as fgm, both in the eu and beyond. in concrete terms, this means eur 4.5 million in the rights equality and citizenship programme and eur 11 million in the unicef joint programme on the abandonment of fgm. last year, i visited ngos that help victims and support women who have undergone fgm and that focus on the prevention of girls from being cut. i have spoken to the women and men dedicated to ending this practice and listened to their concerns. one of the recurring issues was the prevailing lack of knowledge and understanding of professionals. this impedes girls and women in europe from getting the best possible care and from having all their rights respected. if a doctor is surprised or horrified when an infibulated woman visits him or her, this can cause shame and certainly it would be a hurdle for visiting again and receiving appropriate care. if a police officer believes this is just a part of the culture, rather than a serious infringement of rights, coming forward can become so much harder. if a teacher has never heard of fgm, it will be impossible to pick up any signals and prevent a young girl from being cut. hence, it is important to encourage all relevant professionals to act accordingly and provide care, protection and prevention. i believe the fgm platform we are launching these days, calling to unite to end fgm will be an important contribution to end this practice in europe. finally, as you know, i have dedicated this year as a year of focused actions to combat violence against women. i will continue to fight harmful practices such as fgm as part of it, and count on your support.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i think we can all agree here that there is no reason for young girls to suffer genital mutilation. there is no place for such a practice in any civilised society. this so—called tradition, like many others, is nothing but a violation of women’s rights which goes back many centuries, and we can no longer tolerate it happening in the 21st century. we should be committed every day, not just on the international day of zero tolerance for female genital mutilation as such. the eu has been advancing on this file. however, we should strengthen the instruments at our disposal. as regards supporting victims of fgm, the provisions of the eu directive on victims’ rights apply to all victims of crime, including fgm. the signing of the directive on victims’ rights meant that tremendous progress was made in strengthening victims’ rights. the european parliament, as co—legislator, had as a clear objective to seriously recognise the needs of victims in criminal proceedings. we now need to focus on the implementation of this important piece of eu legislation, which should have been transposed into national law by all eu member states by november 2015. however, progress made on the transposition front is very disappointing. i would like to ask the commissioner about the state of play of implementation. another complementary tool in the fight against fgm was the istanbul convention as it was the first treaty to recognise that fgm exists in europe and needs to be systematically addressed. i would therefore repeat my call on the commission and on the council to undertake whatever is needed to make the eu accession to the istanbul convention happen as soon as possible.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the s&d group considers today's debate to be the beginning of a careful and constructive examination of the events in romania. the rule of law and the principle of separation of powers are for us intrinsic principles, of universal importance, which must apply to all member states. wherever these principles are violated, we must take action. we take this debate very seriously and the situation does not tolerate partisan political pickpocketing; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop), the establishment of a european centre for vocational training (cedefop) and the establishment of a european centre for vocational training (cedefop). we must not be seduced by the superficiality of everyday politics: we must go deep. all the facts must be on the table and all the actors must be put to the test. the scourge of corruption can only be eradicated if analysis is carried out ruthlessly. we must talk about the role of the institutions and the extent to which they fulfil their obligations, about the criminal justice system and how corruption offences are punished, about the principle of proportionality and the importance of prevention, and also about the role of the intelligence services in fighting corruption. we think they've lost nothing. the main objective is to strengthen the independence of the judiciary, law enforcement and the judiciary. we in the libe committee will be addressing these questions with determination, ruthlessness and the political will not to exchange political petty cash. it is a question of improving the situation in romania and of doing what the vice-president has just said, namely, of making the last few metres.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. (the speaker is speaking without a microphone) ... about that. the commission proposal and, in particular, the work done by mr zwiefka as rapporteur, should therefore be expressly acknowledged. we must be a union of citizens as the european union. this also means reducing unnecessary bureaucratic hurdles due to lack of cooperation between national authorities. the aim is to make adoption as easy as possible for the sake of the child's welfare and to remove all these obstacles accordingly. but i would also like to point out that we should have arrived in 2017, and therefore i would like to point out once again that we as the european parliament should finally ensure that lesbian and gay couples have the same rights in this context throughout europe. again, for the sake of the child.
the commission has already done so. the present report proposes to remove the energy-intensive stone and ceramic industries from the carbon leakage list and to introduce border adjustment measures. i would like to give you an example of why these changes are necessary. the purchase of emission allowances alone costs the austrian cement industry eur 80 million per year. this is a cost increase of 20% of the industry's total turnover, despite the fact that the austrian cement industry has the lowest co2 emissions and by far the highest use of alternative fuels in the world, according to the world business council for sustainable development, and is a leader in innovative technologies for reducing emissions. it is doubtful that immature and untested border adjustment measures provide sufficient protection and compensation against imports from third countries. it is also questionable whether this measure is even compatible with the wto. the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide the community with a financial contribution to the community's structural funds. so carbon leakage is also investment leakage. and that costs jobs and growth and means a weakening of the competitiveness of european companies.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am grateful to the commissioner for her report and for always being so open with parliament. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for this very good report and for the two priorities which i can only support, both tax competition and digital issues. these are indeed important areas that we have to deal with. i would like to draw attention to three other issues. the first is a question that will come to us, that will come to you, commissioner: the bayer-monsanto deal that is pending. if that happens, it will create the largest seed and plant protection company in the world. we must then quickly check whether a monopoly situation is emerging which will be a major problem for agriculture, farmers, seeds, diversity and not just competition. i'm asking you to come here very quickly for the exam in 2017. the second case is that of paks, the nuclear power plant, where it is still unclear whether the aid, the loan granted to putin and to be repaid, is in breach of competition law or not. we should reach a decision as soon as possible in the interests of the whole of europe. the third issue that concerns me is booking.com, the booking platform that distorts competition in the hotel sector in europe. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. we should come to a european solution. the importance of this digital area has been mentioned several times. we should really be putting a lot of resources into this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. every day i hear people say that the eu is not working, especially on the refugee issue. it's easy to tell when something's not working. it is becoming increasingly difficult to explain why it is not working and who is responsible: the commission, parliament or the council, rather than the sum of the member states. the debate today comes at a good time. the question is not whether we need more europe, but how europe can function better on the basis of the potential of the lisbon treaties. we must take the community europe seriously. we must move away from seeing the solution of the problems in an inflationary sequence of intergovernmental events. it is not the symbolism of the summits that helps us, but the strengthening of parliamentary structures, because they mean more transparency and participation. this must be done at council level and through the involvement of the national parliaments. if there is more transparency, then people will also be able to judge why something is not working, and they will not be tempted to make blanket judgments.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. you are talking about the future of the european union today. i can tell you in advance that this european union will have no future if you continue to hold on to these false concepts. when i look in your ranks and feel that 80%, 90% of your ranks are empty, you yourself no longer believe that this path has a future. the crucial thing for all those who are in favour of a good future for europe to understand is that after the brexit referendum, the british people will finally realize that they were not bad europeans because they turned their backs on brussels, but that on the contrary it was a cry for help to enjoy more autonomy, more sovereignty and to turn away from the brussels course of centralisation. i say to you: change this europe for the better! let the member states breathe again. reduce the commission to 28 commissioners that nobody knows. split this parliament in half. give the individual states more options again. you, mr brok, are the gravediggers of this european union and you know it. this is the wrong way to go. the elmar brok of this world can still curse and speak ill of us here, they will continue to lose elections after elections, and those who want a good future for europe - parties like ours - will be the ones who will succeed in the end and will shape the future, not you.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the commission's winter forecast, which was presented yesterday, shows that the economic outlook for greece is good. with an economic growth of 2.7%, athens is even outpacing the eurozone, which is at 1.6%, a third better. that is the least good thing to say at the moment. the situation is marked by political maneuvering. for example, today's suggestion by imf head lagarde, who, contrary to her previous statements, said that a debt-bearing capacity of greece was conceivable even without a debt cut, subject to certain mechanisms, and that the imf could participate in the third greek rescue package. but debt relief is not doing well in the run-up to elections in germany and the netherlands. the german finance minister in particular attached the greatest importance to the imf's involvement. i think that's a good point. once the debt reduction is off the table, the imf and european creditors can agree on the level of the primary surplus. the debt-sustainability is then established and the next tranche of the assistance programme is due for disbursement. president tsipras is also in dire need of this money. he's got the creditors on his back and the opposition on his back. the prime minister is sitting in the basement with the poll numbers, the conservatives have announced tax cuts and the creation of 120,000 jobs, and political observers expect new elections. understandably, the prime minister is opposed to further austerity, tax increases and pension cuts as demanded by the imf. it is much more practical from the point of view of the greek government to have creditors who are hardly punishing any rule violation in a transfer union which is convenient but which is sobering for the european solidarity community and which offers little chance of ever becoming competitive again in the absence of its own monetary policy.
i would like to clarify the procedure: i now have a 'blue card' from mrs lauristin to mr picula. mrs lauristin, you are from the same parliamentary group and i do not normally take a 'blue card' from the same parliamentary group to my own group. this is not, in my opinion, the story of a 'blue card'. i'm not giving it to you.
we now come to the catch-the-eye procedure. since the time has now come - i have let most of you speak longer than was intended - i shall take one person from each group. catch the eye
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in the west bank and the settlements (2017/2527 ((rsp)).
i can tell you that i took note of it and that we will have a debate on it in the bureau.
mr. belder, i saw that you wanted a "blue card" for mrs. valenciano. but since we're already advanced in time, i only take "blue cards" from people who haven't spoken yet and who haven't had a "blue card". thank you for your understanding.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is perhaps a pure coincidence that we are discussing this hot topic today, because tomorrow the new american president and israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu will meet for the first time. so far, there have been few major differences of opinion between the eu and the us on the settlement issue. we are now faced with a us president who does not hide his sympathy for the radical policies of netanyahu. we must articulate very clearly that any further settlement in the west bank and many new constructions before that are contrary to this policy of ours, namely that only an independent, viable palestine and an israel with secure borders can create lasting peace in the middle east. we can of course continue to watch the situation deteriorate day by day, or we can actively exert pressure on the parties to the conflict as the european union. it's high time you did.
i have to say, madam president, the commission rightly criticises the lack of equality between men and women in albania. i am afraid that this will not change very soon, but i think that the problem will become more acute, because albania is a member of the organisation of islamic cooperation. it is highly provocative that this international organization, for example, prevented the participation of gay and lesbian organizations in the un conference on hiv in june 2016 in new york. this organization of islamic cooperation is nothing but an instrument of the political islam of saudi arabia and 56 other more or less islamic states. the european union has a duty to help the people of albania, and i am sure that the european union will do its utmost to help the people of albania. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the accession negotiations with albania are concluded.
the commission has already done so. i am particularly pleased that the three owninitiative reports on the european semester have focused on a greater social dimension and that they contain many of the demands which parliament has made to the member states. as a social worker and senior politician, i would like to focus specifically on generational issues. unemployment in europe, although declining slowly, remains very high in two groups of the population: among 15-29 year olds, 15% are still neither in training nor in employment. the employment rate of older people is slowly increasing, but the proportion of longterm unemployed aged 55 and over is at a worrying 67%. this is no longer acceptable. the member states are called upon to use the appropriate instruments: the youth guarantee, dual training, and enhanced skills from the age of 40 to 45. there is a lot of support at eu level, but let us not forget that labour market policy and vocational training are national competences. i would also like to point out that social entrepreneurship needs to be promoted. the commission has set out an excellent road map for this. the european parliament will also actively support this. the principle of prevention in the health sector for young and old is still completely lacking. we have to launch an offensive here as a major european project. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. dear colleague! i am grateful for this question because it gives me the opportunity to show that there is no patent recipe for convincing governments of concepts at all, except for the fact that in several states as a best practice model here are clearly the most positive experiences. you have to study it, you have to transfer it, you don't have to imitate it, you don't have to make it exactly the same, but you can learn from it and you can build your own concepts on it. i'm convinced that this is the future. i just think the pressure on politics is too low.
in writing. – the report stresses the need for structural reforms; it falls short on crucial areas such as enforceability and concrete measures. on the one hand, the low implementation rate of country-specific recommendations is deplored, but on the other hand, the good performance of those countries who did reform structurally is not mentioned, while these best practices can spur countries falling behind to take the necessary measures. on the one hand, the report stresses the necessity of labour market reforms, but on the other hand, makes this conditional on full respect for social dialogue. does this mean social dialogue can effectively block labour market reforms deemed necessary? on the one hand, the report recognises the futility and adverse effects of quantitative easing by the ecb, but on the other hand claims it has stimulated growth in the eurozone and warns of the effect of rising interest rates on the ability of indebted countries to improve their public finances. these are just three examples of the seemingly contradictory recommendations in the report, which only entered the report via the shadow meetings and have sadly degraded it from being a useful regulatory guideline to several pages of highly—politicised empty rhetoric.
in writing. we need a new direction for european economic policy. in the ninth year of the crisis, we must finally turn our backs on the neoliberal austerity policy and create jobs through public investment. the commission's 'european semester package' is moving in the right direction with its focus on social justice and expansionary fiscal policies. but nice words alone are not enough. member states must continue to abide by the strict rules of the stability and growth pact. we cannot save ourselves from the crisis. investment in the future must be made possible by greater flexibility. but a reorientation of economic policy must also mean that it is not just growth figures that are the guiding principle. the european union must not be seen as a mere political entity, but as a political entity.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. we have heard from you and your colleagues in the epp that all your considerations are based on facts. i am simply interested to know what facts support the view that this agreement with canada, which will greatly accelerate and increase trade in both directions, is beneficial in the fight against climate change? where can we deduce from this agreement that we will contribute to the co2 emissions reductions in europe and canada?
i have to say, madam president, ceta is now before the vote. the result, unfortunately, seems to be settled. why else would the canadian prime minister be on the agenda today? finally, our criticisms remain in the treaty text, such as the arbitration courts as parallel justice, the so-called joint committees which undermine our national parliamentary opinions, the abolition of the precautionary principle which undermines consumer protection in europe, and the huge import quotas at low prices which will destroy our agriculture. i say yes to trade, but no to the reduction of national parliamentary powers, no to the circumvention of democratic jurisdiction and no to the disenfranchisement of citizens in europe. ceta is and will remain a trojan horse which will threaten and dramatically undermine european values.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. ceta is not the work of the devil, and many critics are wrong. but ceta is a treaty that was negotiated in an opaque way and that, in my opinion, does not provide the right answers to globalisation. we have heard the question many times today: how can we make globalization fair? ceta in its present form does not contribute to this. that is why i cannot agree to ceta. ceta is not good enough. so what does ceta teach us? i'm sure we'll have to do things differently in the future. it may be a good idea to return to traditional trade agreements and to regulate regulatory cooperation in sectoral agreements. it is essential, however, to involve national parliaments, civil society, ngos and the european parliament in the negotiations from the outset, to keep them regularly informed during the negotiations, to take the concerns seriously, to respect and involve the views of citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what went wrong with ceta must not happen again!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are now witnessing a clash between taking responsibility and creating fear, between regulating globalisation and shutting ourselves off, between shaping the future and squandering opportunities, between evaluating the outcome of negotiations and fake news, between serious, objective debate and a dishonest partisan double-dealing. i am glad that the majority of members of the european people's party, the liberals, the conservatives and also the social democrats take the concerns of the people seriously and have decided, after intense debate, to vote in favour of the trade agreement, because we have examined the outcome and because the concerns and questions of the people are answered in this agreement on the basis of the community of law and values of the european union. whoever is locked out loses. we design. we want to take advantage of this opportunity.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. international terrorism is one of the greatest threats of our time, bringing endless suffering to those affected. we were able to see this for ourselves a few weeks ago in this house when we heard the testimonials of the yazidi sakharov prize winner. international terrorism is primarily aimed at destroying the foundations of our free society. i fear that this threatening scenario will be with us for a long time. international terrorism cannot be defeated by national methods alone. something that is not nation-state in character the is sees itself as a stateless actor something that it is not. it must therefore be combated first and foremost by the international community. security council resolution 2178 provides a very good defining framework and obliges states to criminalize actual or intended travel to other countries in the context of terrorist activities, as well as propaganda and training. it is therefore very important that we, the union, finally have a legal framework to combat terrorism with this directive. the previous framework decision was not sufficient and the legal situation in the member states varied greatly. the directive is a very important step. it allows for coordinated and systematic action by the police and judicial authorities. but we should not feel secure, thinking that this will solve the problem. it is necessary to implement this quickly, to improve the accompanying measures, the work on de-radicalisation and the work in prisons, and above all to intensify the prosecution, not only of those returning. the commission has also proposed that the council should be consulted on the matter.
the commission has already done so. we are now seeing civil rights being attacked and in some cases dismantled at the national level in a panicked attempt to control the terrorist threat. it almost seems to me that the same thing is happening now at eu level. we are passing a law without considering its long-term implications for fundamental rights. a law which criminalizes acts which are usually not directly related to terrorism in advance. we are thus laying the foundations for preventive legislation in criminal law and the endangerment of the presumption of innocence. the example of ahmed h. from november 2016, a resident of cyprus, who was sentenced to 10 years in prison in hungary for an alleged terrorist act, has already been mentioned. it proves that the term terrorism is definitely misunderstood and over-exaggerated. our aim must be to strike a balance between the legitimate desire for security and the desire to protect fundamental rights and freedoms. doubting safety is not the answer. as legislators, we have a moral obligation not to pass laws based on panic, because that certainly does not build trust.
the commission has already done so. i will speak with pride about what is now before us for decision. i recognise that the counter-terrorism directive is at the heart of what can shape europe's security in the future. i am glad that the commission and parliament are clearly on the same page here. i congratulate all the members of the libe committee, and in particular the rapporteur, monika hohlmeier, and the shadow rapporteurs, on this achievement. we can pull the plug on terrorist plots and propaganda over the internet. we can shut down the terrorist financing. we can effectively deal with foreign fighters - yes, they are european citizens - and islamic radicals, even if the terrorist acts have not taken place. we have a new criminal law framework for effective prosecution and for the first time member states are obliged to share data - a long overdue measure, because no member state in the eu can tackle only one of the challenges alone. terrorist crimes include cyber attacks, attacks on water and electricity supplies. we're going very far. and i realize that the internet platform providers need to be even more obligated by us to delete content. when you're winning billions of dollars, there's no such thing as too much effort.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, commissioner, colleagues, people watching in the galleries, for me this revision of border checks is a very telling example of ad hoc legislation and of symbolic politics, because we haven’t had an impact assessment by the commission. i know you weren’t there, commissioner, when we started debating that, but this is something which the commission hasn’t proven, it hasn’t given us any proof that this will really make us more secure. no impact assessment was carried out. indeed, it might be [questioned] whether it’s really suitable for catching terrorists. it is already possible now to have non-systematic checks of eu citizens coming in and out, and what is done now is done without any [grounds for] suspicion. for me and for us as greens this revision is not necessary and it is not proportionate, as others have already said. let me give you one example, because the problem is that member states don’t feed all the information they have into the schengen information system. i can give you a very concrete example. one of the brussels attackers, salah abdeslam, passed through my home country, austria, from budapest with some people he took up in budapest at the train station there. he passed from there to austria, and there was a police patrol controlling him; they had an alert, but they didn’t say it was because of terrorism. so the austrian police a couple of days later informed the belgians. well, that was too late and the problem is that the belgian authorities didn’t [give any] inform[ation]. so we have to solve that first before we control each and every eu citizen coming in and out. this simply will not make europe more secure.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on transport and tourism. the commission is not the subject we are dealing with here today is very broad and very groundbreaking. i think we cannot yet estimate the dimensions of this from our present point of view. this development has the potential to change our lives in a big and lasting way. it's not about replacing human capabilities, it's about complementing human capabilities. it is not just the transport sector that will be affected, it is not just the health and rescue services that will be affected, but it will affect many areas of life that we are not even thinking about today. i had the opportunity to draft the opinion of the tran committee. this was also adopted by a large majority in the committee. transport is of course a subject which is particularly affected by the automotive sector. this is not just transport as we know it today, by air, by water and by land, but it is everything imaginable that will or can be in the future in the field of transport. i am particularly interested in this subject because in my home town of graz in austria, the first experiments are already under way with two automobile developers in terms of automated mobility. the subject, as i have said, will occupy us for a long time. it's still in its infancy. the more exciting and the greater the challenges that are still ahead of us and that are coming our way.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. (speaker without microphone) ... has been created, is a legal person, has legal personality. so many other forms of society have this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. did you actually read the report?
i have to say, madam president, we are currently seeing an inflationary proliferation of robots, decision-making machines that can communicate with each other. 1.7 million are already active, almost the population of latvia. a lot of people worry about that. it is true that development cannot be stopped, but it can and must be controlled. that is the position of the social democrats. we want to see digitisation as an opportunity and help shape this process. we are therefore proud of the work of mrs mady delvaux, who has made a very good point with this report. the report calls on the commission to submit a draft law laying down principles of civil law. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field. if the european union acts together, it is possible for global standards to follow european standards. there is this european leverage, as we have seen with the data protection package. the use of robots also raises a whole host of ethical and socio-political questions. i welcome the fact that the report does not spare these questions either, but rather provides a basis for constructive discussion.
i have to say, madam president, robots are opening up wonderful opportunities, taking our jobs. and so the productivity gains - that is, what we get from them now, which is kind of positive - of the intelligent helpers must be equally distributed. let's call it a robot tax, let's call it a machine tax, whatever. a basic income is also an option. but we should look at the whole picture and share this profit equally, so that we can safeguard our social systems for the future. we in europe now have the unique opportunity, but also the obligation, not to take a position on these legal and ethical issues, but it is a task for you, commissioner, to do something about liability issues, but above all about the ethical principles which i consider to be particularly important in the development of robots, such as, for example, - as the report proposes - a code of conduct for robotics engineers or an ethical framework based on our principles and values as set out in the charter of fundamental rights. congratulations to mady and everyone who worked on this. but now, above all, we have much work to do.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the german toll plans show us the problems we have in europe today. firstly, the commission seems to have problems with applying the same standard to large member states as to small ones. i would like to remind you that in europe the rule of law is still the rule and not the rule of the strongest. secondly, following the submission to the bundestag, commission president juncker personally announced in may 2015 an examination of the toll due to significant doubts about european law. in september 2016, the commission decided to take germany to the european court of justice, and on 3 november, a surprise agreement was announced. commissioner, what has changed? i still pay more for the same car on the same route just because i have an austrian license plate, pollution class to and from. discrimination is discrimination. thirdly, although the minister for transport, mr dobrindt, deserves another european thistle in his collection, i would also like to break a lance for the german approach. if there is a european solution in the context of the revision of the eurovignette directive, then national taxes must be reduced. but if, as in the present case, only the neighbouring countries were to bear the burden of the german taxpayers, then this is not acceptable. the commission is called upon to take note. crossborder mobility should not and cannot be penalized. drivers, regardless of nationality, are not the playground for finance ministers and populists see article 18. i hope the commission will reconsider its position. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. illegal, clearly illegal is this deal. this deal is illegal on multiple levels. i am simply saying that there is hidden discrimination - we have heard this before - and the polluter pays principle. commissioner, you are definitely the wrong person to talk to. i wish the guy who brokered this deal was here to talk to us. this is a deal, ladies and gentlemen, which is at the expense of many motorists, at the expense of many austrian commuters who commute to germany. this is a deal, and you know it, that was negotiated in the back room of the old boys club in brussels. this is a deal like we have seen so many and so often in this european union. some are just the same, and some are just more alike. the line is drawn, and that's understandable. the line is also conclusive and, at the end of the day, understandable from the point of view of the european union and those who bear responsibility for it. you break and not bend your own rules, which you have decided to make just because it's politically expedient. this creates - and i can tell you this - no confidence in this union. if this toll is passed, if the commission actually passes it, then i can tell you that we will certainly implement a similar system in austria.
the commission has already done so. a toll which is ultimately paid by foreigners is simply not possible in the european single market. this is unsolidarist, unfair and violates the fundamental principle of non-discrimination. but i would also point out that nobody wants to prevent germany from introducing a toll. but they should be paid by all who use the german roads, no matter what license plate they have. as a social democrat, i am committed to the polluter principle at eu level. this means that anyone who uses the road - whether for private or commercial use - must pay for it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment. in the european parliament we have succeeded in launching a resolution, which is cross-party and cross-country, aimed at respecting the principle of non-discrimination and strengthening political cooperation in europe. the european parliament and the german neighbouring states are united in their commitment to equal rights for all in europe. that is why i am asking you, mrs bulc, to reconsider your position.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank commissioner moedas very warmly for this initiative which will strengthen europe. mr boni has made it clear that the protection of personal data in a certified european cloud is at stake. we know that the cloud select industry group has been working on a code of conduct that will set standards for europe. we need these standards globally so that the european cloud industry can play a strong role in this area. enisa and etsi are key players here, and i can only congratulate both organisations that this initiative will really bring sustainable european successes for smes too. of course, we also need a cloud-computing compliance-control catalog system to set standards here that will allow us to eliminate the mistrust and the crisis of trust that exists in this area. we need a european cloud seal of approval that ensures that data is stored by european cloud providers in european data centres and that the full source code is available in europe accordingly. we need european law and european data protection rules to implement this cloud seal of approval. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information society.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. european clouds help to secure europe's economic location and, especially when a high level of data protection is ensured, also provide a competitive advantage. i said that in a debate in this house four years ago. a lot's happened since then. the volume of data has multiplied, the technical possibilities have improved significantly. but little has happened in our area. the commission's initiative is therefore to be welcomed. but it should not be limited to announcements and gossip. to prevent this from happening, we need more money - much more money and quickly - and we should also make clear the competitive advantages of europe. this includes the high level of data protection on this continent. we should be aware that a european cloud initiative should not only focus on research, but also on the needs of private users.
mr president, i want to express my dismay at the way the drivers here in strasbourg were treated. they have been working diligently for us for eight, ten, fifteen years and from one day to the next they were let go, without any letter of appreciation – nothing. i think this is a disgrace for this institution. (applause)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i do not understand why people here do not see that the problem is precisely the misdevelopments in centralization in recent years and why they do not want to be deterred from moving in the wrong direction. there are enough conceptual proposals to change this european union, to reshape it and thus lead it to a good future. for example, there is a proposal to cut the european commission in half, to reshape the european parliament and thus to give member states more room to make decisions. but all this is obviously not of interest to you, because you want to continue this very step, to continue this very step, of centralising europe, while on the other hand you are running away from the citizens of europe and you are actually doing europe a very, very bad service if you develop these very failed concepts rather than giving the national states more possibilities again.
in writing. today, commission president jean-claude juncker presented a white paper on five scenarios for the future of the european union, showing the way forward for the eu27 to remain united. three of the paths or scenarios described would hardly stand a reality test under the current policy framework, while two of them need closer consideration: the first scenario, called 'those who want more do more', outlines a europe of the willing, who work together more closely in certain policy areas to move forward together more quickly. this is a process that is already possible today through the instrument of 'permanent structured cooperation' provided for in the treaty of lisbon. in the second scenario, called 'doing less more efficiently', the european union focuses its resources on a selected number of 'large' issues, i.e. important issues, and leaves others to the member states. one of these areas could be, for example, a common foreign and security policy. in conclusion, it is important to note that this white paper and the debate on the future of the european union, while welcome because of the open-ended approach it has taken, are rather late. tactical considerations in relation to the upcoming 2017 election year are likely to be a major reason for this debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we had a very emotional discussion about this issue here almost a year ago, and there are still those missing children. that should make you nervous, commissioner avramopoulos, in the interests of children and young people, but also in the interests of security in europe. if i were you, i would also wonder whether it is also related to the fact that the process of relocating from greece has not yet started and that thousands of children who have nothing to lose are still trapped and many of them become victims of criminal gangs. i would not only be concerned about how to speed up the process of relocation, but more importantly, how to improve the conditions for the children in the meantime. i've seen the conditions in greek refugee camps, and i can't get those images out of my head. we should do everything we can to keep the children from being left alone. we need this much-quoted action plan, otherwise we will be discussing the same thing here next year, and we should not be.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. equal pay for equal work must be a given in the 21st century. unfortunately - and you, madam commissioner, have already said this - these income disparities still exist, and we all have a very strong call to make, especially within europe, to combat the causes and thus to be able to make a real contribution to closing this income gap. i believe that the lack of women in certain technical professions is a major factor in this, and we must also - and this has already been mentioned - do a lot of work here, particularly in the field of education, to encourage women to take up those professions which are in fact in great demand throughout europe. women are often excluded from working life because they are exposed to multiple burdens with family and children and very often also in the care sector. i think it is very important to provide different opportunities in the social field and to relieve women of their burdens. i would also like to point out that many women choose this way of life and stay at home, for example, as housewives. i think that should be an area that we should value even more. women are also very reluctant to negotiate salaries. again, you have to start with girls very early, give them that necessary self-confidence, and also provide that career perspective. it will also be very important for us to be able to close the pension gap we perceive as a result of these very large differences in income, because poverty in old age, in particular, also affects women very much.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we have to stop believing in the myth of equality. it is simple and moving yet not reality. 'equal pay for equal work' is one of the fundamental principles of the european union, enshrined in the treaties since 1957. and yet there is a gender pay gap, different pay for men and women in each individual member state. many countries celebrate the so-called equal pay day the day of the year when women actually start to receive the same pay as their male colleagues for their work. equal pay day in austria is 4 march, in the eu generally 2 march. until then, women in austria work 63 days, and in the eu 61 days, in relation to their male colleagues, for free. girls often receive less pocket money than boys or their brothers, and pensions for women are, as the commissioner has already mentioned, 40% lower than those for men across the eu. you see: for women, income inequality starts in the cradle and ends at the end of the line, so to speak.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr minister, madam commissioner, i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the employment rate of women has been increasing for decades in the eu member states, but women generally contribute less than half of the average household income. my home country, austria, is one of the countries where women contribute the least in terms of percentage. the difference in gross hourly earnings in austria is 22.2% - one third more than in the eu. this means that women in austria earn on average more than one fifth less per hour than men. so much for 'equal pay for equal work'. even more serious is the difference in income when calculated on the basis of annual income. austrian women have an average annual income which is 44.5 per cent or more than two-fifths lower than that of men. the reasons for this are many. we 've heard a lot today . there are fewer women in management and leadership positions, and women perform much more important unpaid work than men, such as household management, child rearing and care of the elderly, and therefore often have to take part-time jobs. women are more likely to have career interruptions and segregation in the labour market and education also contributes to this. the findings are not reassuring, which is why we must work at all political levels to redress these income disparities.
i have to say, madam president, we are currently experiencing a renaissance of authoritarian behaviour: the strong man has a business cycle - not just in politics. taking action, stating facts without talking to others, passing by - these are behaviours that are becoming increasingly popular. this includes domestic violence against the partner and against the children - not only in russia, but especially in russia. the decision of the state duma on 1 february to criminalise corporal punishment within the family only in cases of serious physical consequences is a blow to the face of the civilized world. you don't hit people if you love your family. striking is not a sign of strength, quite the opposite: weak is he who strikes. and a law that protects the reckless is a weak law.
i have to say, madam president, 50% of the population are men, 50% are women. it is therefore perfectly logical that this equality should be respected before the courts and, of course, before the european court of justice. the european parliament has not been able to make a decision easily when it came to increasing the number of judges. one condition was clear: the number of women should be taken into account accordingly and the number of female judges should be increased. the council has not taken this principle into account. and we in the european parliament must think very carefully in the future about the extent to which we rely on the council, which promises us something and does not keep it.
member of the commission. – madam president, i welcome the excellent agreement reached at the last trilogue in december on the intergovernmental agreements (iga) decision review between the european parliament, the council and the commission. with this, we have reached a major political success that we have built together over the last months. i want to congratulate the rapporteur, professor krasnodębski, and the members of the committee on industry, research and energy for their excellent work. i also want to congratulate the dutch and the slovak presidencies for their support. the review of the iga decision takes place in the context of the energy union strategy, the objective of which is to give european union consumers – households and business – secure, sustainable, competitive and affordable energy supplies. in the current geopolitical climate, the energy union is essential to stimulate the production of renewables, improve energy efficiency and deliver a more integrated energy sector, which can ensure the security of supply and a successful energy transition, while promoting investment, growth and jobs. with the agreement on the iga decision, the first act to be agreed from the security of supply package we presented one year ago, we are giving a very powerful signal. we are showing that jointly, parliament, the commission and the council attach great importance to bringing more coherence to our external energy policy, and that this external energy policy should be guided by respect for our internal rules and principles. the current rules on intergovernmental agreements were agreed in 2012, and they require member states to notify the commission of their energy agreements with non-european union countries only after they have been concluded (ex-post). the commission has been notified of some 124 intergovernmental agreements under the 2012 rules. one third of the agreements related to energy infrastructure or energy supply contained provisions that were not compliant with european union law. moreover, it has proven very difficult to renegotiate or terminate intergovernmental agreements once they have been signed by the parties. in fact, no intergovernmental agreement has been successfully renegotiated as yet. the review therefore has two main objectives: to ensure full compliance of igas with european union law, thereby ensuring the proper functioning of the internal energy market, enhancing competition, and ensuring energy security. and to increase the transparency of igas in order to increase the cost-effectiveness of european union energy supply and increase solidarity between member states. the deal is very relevant: for the first time, the principle of a mandatory ex-ante assessment by the commission of gas and oil igas has been accepted, while electricity igas are still subject to a mandatory ex-post check. for the first time the role of non-legally binding instruments has been recognised, in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality. this will allow for more transparent and fully compliant igas in the future. this will increase our energy security and the functioning of our internal market. of course, there should be no complacency, and the commission will continue monitoring the development of the information exchange in the future. by 1 january 2020 we will issue a report on its implementation, to monitor the situation, notably regarding agreements between member states and undertakings but also regarding electricity igas. at the last trilogue in december, the commission made a statement in that sense that will be attached to the minutes of today’s debate. on this basis, i am confident that the vote in plenary tomorrow will give a strong backing to the important agreement that we have achieved together. written statement by the commission 1. the review clause of this decision (article10) covers the possibility for the commission to assess whether it is appropriate to address agreements between member states and undertakings from third countries, in the future, and to assess whether all instruments in this decision are sufficiently addressed. 2. the commission commits itself to make this assessment no later than 1 january 2020.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. first of all, i would like to thank you, mr krasnodębski, as rapporteur. you have done a really excellent job, and the result speaks for itself. the negotiated decision aims to overcome the weaknesses of the current mechanism. at present, agreements are submitted to the commission for examination only after they have been ratified. however, it was found that agreements which were not compatible with union law were very difficult to renegotiate subsequently. the resolution which will be put to the vote tomorrow will change that. the commission will now examine whether the oil and gas agreements are in line with eu law before they are signed. in addition, if member states deviate from the commission's opinions, they must explain their reasons in writing. it also introduces a clearer definition of the term 'intergovernmental agreement' which also includes international organisations. i am convinced that this decision will significantly improve the transparency and coherence of the eu's external relations in the field of energy and strengthen the eu's negotiating position vis-à-vis third countries, especially in the gas sector. my group, the alliance of liberals and democrats, will support this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. with all due respect to your management today, you have clearly committed two fundamental breaches of the principle of equality. first of all, you don't even look at the voting. second, you ignore it when someone happens to say "point of order", you're obviously above things and you ignore it. i would ask you to change your otherwise very esteemed presidency and to be democratic and fair.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we can see that everyone is generally satisfied. we did a good job on the shareholder rights directive. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr sergio cofferati, in particular. we have long been fighting here in this house for greater transparency in european companies, for companies to act sustainably, to take long-term decisions and not just look at short-term profits - because that is what caused the financial crisis. we are now seeing a paradigm shift that we have through the modified shareholder approach to the shareholder rights directive. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take part in the negotiations. it is of course also particularly important to me that sergio cofferati has negotiated here in such a way that this issue of transparency, namely public country by country reporting - that is, country by country reporting, which is intended to bring in even more transparency - has finally been resolved and we now have the possibility of including this result in the balance sheet directive. it is not often enough, however, to point out that it is a great success that the european company law also mentions employees as the most important stakeholders - so the stakeholder approach itself has now been adopted. this is something we should be working for in this house, that this should continue to happen and that there should really be an approach to companies that are supposed to act in the long term because they are part of this society and they should also fulfil their social responsibility.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs clare moody, for the excellent cooperation she has given me in her report on gender equality in eu funds. as has been said many times, this report comes at the right time, on the occasion of international women's day. we greens very much welcome this report because it speaks a clear language and because it points out major shortcomings, especially in the area of the lack of implementation of gender mainstreaming. we all know that gender mainstreaming is actually a commitment of the european union. we are here, so we have a certain responsibility to actually implement it. but this is not the case, particularly in the eu funds and programmes, as this report shows. we have a clear need to catch up, and we are naturally calling for gender mainstreaming to be implemented in all eu programmes and all eu funds. a key instrument of gender mainstreaming is gender budgeting - which i think has been mentioned by some people today - where we think that the european commission in particular is falling far behind in its ability to implement, despite the repeated calls for years from this house and also from the women's committee and other committees to apply gender budgeting not only in the areas where it is easiest or most obvious, but really in all programmes. finally, i would like to stress once again the importance of the european structural funds in dealing with the crisis and achieving the objectives of gender equality, and the importance of public investment in social infrastructure in dealing with the gender effects of the crisis and austerity policies.
the commission has already done so. i am very pleased that we are having this joint debate today on equality between men and women. as you know, international women's day was celebrated only last week, on 8 march. it is therefore all the more important to keep this issue on the agenda, because we are still far from achieving equality between men and women and must all the more continue our efforts to achieve the ambitious goals we have all set ourselves at eu level. tomorrow we shall be voting on three important reports. each one is geared towards empowering women and reducing gender discrimination in various areas. an important issue in all these concerns is how we as politicians mainstream gender in our daily work. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. we therefore need to take greater account of the different difficulties faced by women and men in all areas of life, and in this context, especially the reality faced by women. european equality laws are not always sufficiently uniform and implementation needs to be improved. the independence and resources of european equality agencies must also be strengthened. i therefore look forward to working further with my colleagues in parliament, the commission and the council to further reduce these gender gaps. because we often talk about the courage it takes to put your beliefs into words and to make them known. but it is much more important to stand by those convictions. in this sense, we must treat the notions of equality, feminism and gender equality not just as eloquent ornaments, but as essential components of our daily lives at the political level as well as at any other social level.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the rapporteur, agnieszka kozłowska-rajewicz, for her excellent cooperation in her report on equal access to goods and services, as she shares my aim of achieving equality for all people in europe. the implementation of the principle of equal treatment is an indicator of the state of development of democracy. it is therefore particularly regrettable that discrimination still dominates people's daily lives in many cases. because who doesn 't know this: the disposable razor for women costs a lot more than the same product that is available for men. a short haircut for a woman is much more expensive than the same haircut for a man, and so on and so forth. we can all cite countless examples from our daily lives. this is our reality. it is ten years since the directive on equal treatment for men and women in the access to goods and services had to be implemented. a lot has happened. but there are also many pitfalls that come with everyday life, and many times these differences are so ingrained in our society and are so normal that we often don't even notice them. in public spaces, it is often mothers and nursing mothers who are faced with discrimination. they cannot use many services and are sometimes left standing at the airport, for example, despite having a valid ticket. women are also affected by higher costs and different pricing of insurance and credit products. the price structure is often gender specific for other goods and services, and there are still these explicit exceptions in the media, advertising and education sectors. it would be very desirable to change that, of course. we are making progress here in the european parliament by small but steady steps. the commission is now being asked to carry out a study on advertising. i ask you to support this at least.
in writing. rabbits are the second most commonly farmed livestock species in the eu, but account for only 1.1% of total eu meat production. at present there is no specific legislation on minimum standards for the protection of rabbits. austria already improved the conditions for animals in 2012 by, for example, banning battery cages from production. this pioneering role is also explicitly emphasised in the report on minimum requirements for the protection of rabbits in farming. we are in favour of eu-wide legislation that is favourable to animals, farmers and consumers alike. the abolition of battery cages and the associated decent treatment of animals, shorter and more comfortable transport and slaughter under anaesthesia with the least possible stress are the points which were particularly important to us for animal welfare reasons and which were also addressed by the report. the report is good for consumers, because on the one hand, the need for antibiotics would be reduced by switching from cage farming to confinement systems. the second is the consumer's conscience, for example, in purchasing rabbit meat from a pet-friendly or animal-friendly breed. the commission has also proposed that farmers be compensated for the additional costs and the changeover.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i cannot help feeling that here substantial parts of the european union are living in a completely parallel universe. you want to make europe safer: yes, good. but you ignore the fact that there are a large number of jihadists, terrorists, criminals who have come to our continent, and that there are about 800 000 illegal weapons in bosnia alone, according to a report by the frontex border agency. but instead of doing something about it, you're torturing upstanding citizens. they target sports shooters, traditional shooters, people who have a defensive interest. this is the wrong way. i would like to remind you that, whether it was charlie hebdo, whether it was the brussels attack, whether it was nice, whether it was the bataclan theatre, there is no problem with the legal possession of weapons. these are righteous people. you focus your security efforts on the mistreatment of upstanding citizens and completely ignore the fact that there are many criminals here. they need to be the focus here. i would rather see a liberalisation of the right to bear arms where people who have an interest in defence can also take it into account. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for asking. i am generally of the opinion that the european union is not needed to regulate this. the european union is needed to ensure peace, freedom and prosperity on our continent, not to torture citizens with one bureaucratic bullying after another. austria, in particular, has no problem at all with legal gun ownership. and now we're faced with having to implement a bunch of bureaucratic regulations, ignoring that the threat comes from a very different corner, namely from open borders, from jihadists, from terrorists, from threats to righteous people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we must be very clear that the legal ownership of weapons must not be criminalised nor has it been in the debate in this house. we want to protect the legal gun owners, and we need to take action against the illegal gun owners and against the abuse. the presentation of the commission proposal for a revision of the weapons directive, which took place more than a year ago, and the subsequent work in the european parliament have been very serious. we have all received a flood of letters and e-mails from hunters, sportsmen, traditional shooters, collectors and museums who have been following the revision very closely. and we have addressed those concerns. we are improving cooperation between national authorities and the marking and traceability of firearms. we're going to be addressing the issue of converted shotguns and reactivated firearms. at the same time, we're keeping the balance. the proposal is balanced, the proposal is good and the proposal respects the principle of subsidiarity, and therefore the members of my delegation agree.
the commission has already done so. i think it is very important to express today, by means of this vote, that we are finally moving from a throwaway society to a resource-based community and that we are also trying, above all, to really try to unify the great differences that exist in the various definitions, in the treatment and storage of raw materials, partly in the individual member states, and thus actually create a very innovative and also new system in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not used as a fuel in the future. today, with higher recycling rates and lower landfilling, we want above all to create the circle towards a true eco-social market economy. but i think we are also starting today with the idea and above all with the vision of finally getting to a zero-waste society. and i think that should be the next big thing for us. waste has never been as much of an opportunity as it is now, and i think we really need to take advantage of it and give value back to waste. we need to move away from plastic and cheap disposable solutions and towards using the full potential of products. the time has come to create awareness in society. if we do not succeed in taking people along this road, we are doomed.
the commission has already done so. the package we have here, and what parliament has improved and extended, is a very great opportunity for our future. we talk about stopping climate change, we talk about being careful with our resources. it is therefore essential that we create these conditions. we need to bring products to market that are reusable and recyclable. we need to create awareness that products can be used in many ways and that not everything that is waste should end up in landfills. six member states, including austria, have already introduced a landfill ban in 2014, and it is working. so, if we can all come together and create this awareness that waste can actually be a raw material, if we can create this awareness that with products that are easily degradable, we have products that are designed from the very beginning to be reusable, then we've taken a valuable step here. the present drafts are a good way to do this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we've just discussed that inappropriate behaviour cannot be tolerated, and i reject the idea that the fellow, just because he feels disturbed, will turn around charmingly and yell vaffanculo! this is a behaviour which i will not tolerate and i ask you to investigate and punish it accordingly!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i voted against the report on the acquisition and possession of weapons today because almost all the claims and justifications for why we need this report are false. the fact that the commission presented a proposal to tighten the arms directive five days after the terrible attack on the bataclan club in paris is an indication to me that this idea had obviously been with the commission for a long time and was only taken out of the drawer when the time was right. so a clear cause legislation, an actionism, where you deliberately wanted to hit hunters, shooters and gatherers. i now come to the main point of my criticism. on the surface, the commission claims that the scheme is intended to combat terrorism. that claim is flimsy. it is clear to any reasonable citizen that terrorists criminals buy their weapons on the black market on the darknet and not from a gun dealer around the corner or officially on the internet. in reality, this directive is a mockery of the legal gun owners - the hunters, the shooters and the collectors. the directive will place legal gun owners under general suspicion. the directive is a deliberate abuse of the citizen. it would be much more important if we actually increased smuggling and border controls or if we actually thought about the question of where these weapons come from. you can, if you want, import tons of kalashnikovs from the former yugoslavia if you are on the illegal side. that means that it also brings additional costs, additional bureaucracy for our citizens, a bullying treatment that this directive represents for law-abiding gun owners. we must not be surprised that there will certainly be countries which do not or are reluctant to implement this directive. we should not be surprised that citizens are increasingly distancing themselves from this centralistic eu policy.
blue-card question. – mr škripek, can i ask you whether you have ever spoken to a woman who got pregnant, even though she did not want to? maybe the man she had sex with did not want to use a contraceptive or it broke or she might have been raped. that even happens within families. it happens with brothers, husbands, etc. have you ever spoken to anyone who said no, she did not want to have that child? just another question: have you ever imagined what would happen if you were able to get pregnant and you did not want to become pregnant? maybe, in such dire circumstances as we have in many countries in this world, would you then not decide that you did not want that and you wanted to have safe access to abortion, given that otherwise both you and the child could die?
the commission has already done so. with a single stroke of the pen, the president of the united states has jeopardized the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, and women worldwide will suffer the fatal consequences of this senseless action. because this is not about potential savings, but about the fact that women's bodies and women's rights are once again being used as a political battleground. but such political games can have life-threatening consequences. because unsafe abortion is one of the top five causes of maternal death worldwide. so, ladies and gentlemen, it is high time to rise. it is now up to us, the european union, to take action and lead a global, progressive alliance worldwide. we cannot just stand by and watch this destructive way of doing politics become the norm. the eu and its partners need to further step up their efforts to protect sexual and reproductive health. this includes both increasing development aid in these areas and promoting this important issue in diplomatic relations.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. you all remember when trump signed the global gag rule, surrounded by all these old, older -- maybe a few younger -- white men. that means that in the future, about 600 million dollars a year will be unavailable. and it's not just about abortion -- let me say this once -- it's about contraception, it's about education, it's about hiv/aids prevention. this gag rule threatens the lives of girls and women, of girls and women who have already been born. and you know, unintended pregnancies, unwanted abortions amongst women, are the second leading cause of death amongst girls and young women between 15 and 19. and you, who argue against it, want to reinforce it. we - and i thank the commission - and we in the european parliament, the majority support the she decides programme, this new initiative, led by the dutch development minister plus belgium, denmark and sweden, that it is going ahead. in just a few weeks, more than 180 million euros have been donated. this has to go on. i am disappointed that my own country, the government of austria, is not willing to pay for this. i believe that it would be the task of each eu member state to contribute to the fact that more can actually be done here. because the feminist principle of the '70s is still valid today: my body is mine, and i make my own decisions.
i have to say, madam president, in times of trump and putin, it is very important for europe to strengthen the multilateral policy framework, especially when it comes to human rights. the un human rights council is therefore indispensable to us and in the past it has proved to be a very effective and useful instrument. but it is also important to build on this continuity and to defend the rights enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights. but above all, we must meet the challenges of the present. it is in the field of migration that it is necessary to press for human rights. the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the child are respected. in the context of combating the causes of displacement, it would be important to mention northern iraq. we have just honoured two yazidi women with the sakharov prize in this house, and now there is fighting again in this region. i believe that it is in this context that it would be important to create a multilateral framework which would prevent this from happening in the future.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european people will be a little bit safer again! this time it is not about road transport, this time it is about what europeans eat. we have also had very good official controls in the past, as far as controls along the food chain are concerned. however, the 2003 revision of the 882 showed that in this area in particular there were many parallel checks which did not always meet the requirements of effectiveness. we have also found that, of course, over time, other demands are made on controls, on control mechanisms. and i am very glad that in the very long, very intensive and very cooperative negotiations - first here in the house, between the various political groups, then in trilogue with colleagues from the member states, in the council and of course also with the commission - we have found a solution which i believe also meets all the requirements we can lay down for modern, efficient, strict, effective controls along the entire food production chain. we want to control, as they say, from farm to fork, but really from the producer, from the farm, from the fattening farm to the plate. but here, not only meat and food that comes from animal meat, but plants as well. the title of the regulation says it all: regulation of the european parliament and of the council on official controls and other official activities to ensure the application of food and feed law, animal health and animal welfare rules, plant health and plant protection products. so we can see that this is a very comprehensive framework that will really cover all of these areas of control in the future. we have noted here - and this is a very important requirement - that the member states should allocate adequate funds to all these checks. and here we know that membership budgets are not about too much money, and so i think the risk-based approach that we've taken is the right answer to that. unannounced risk-based controls with a minimum frequency of inspection ensure that we are using our resources in a targeted way and ensuring health and safety here. food in europe must be safe, secure and healthy. we also want to protect europeans from something else: fraud and deliberate deception. i think that the horse meat scandal, which may have had a triggering factor, was a question of: there was no danger to the health of europeans in general, but there was clearly fraud, misinformation. the new regulation also provides us with mechanisms to combat this fraud. we have, for the first time, established the possibility that whistleblowers can disclose their knowledge of wrongdoing without fear of losing their own position and their own economic independence. we now have a system that enshrines even more independence, quality and accountability for law enforcement agencies. we have a new system of transparency in which the publication of the activities of the official control bodies must be guaranteed, and we can - and this is also essential for me - act much more quickly in times of crisis than before. what many of us - and today's debate on rabbit farming in europe has shown - think is an essential point, and one that is also emphasized here, is the question of animal welfare: we cannot and must not be indifferent to the way animals are treated in europe. even if the slaughterhouse is the destination of their transport, conditions must also be maintained there which are in keeping with animal welfare and animal husbandry. we have suggested that there are reference centers where all this knowledge can be shared, and that the authenticity and integrity of the food chain should also be designated for animal welfare. this project is also future-proof, which means that we have the possibility to react to new developments in production, to new market conditions and, of course, to new consumer patterns. i'm actually quite proud of what we've put together here. i would like to thank all the players once again. it was a rather arduous one at times, but i think by the end product that we have created here a very pleasant collaboration. europe is a little bit safer again.
the rapporteur. the commission is not i would like to thank once again all the shadow rapporteurs and all those who have spoken today for the very constructive atmosphere we have had, not only in the run-up to the debate but also today. and, commissioner, i have a very big request to make of you. this regulation empowers the commission to adopt the delegated and implementing acts provided for. and as you know, there were a whole series of provisions and regulations which parliament would have liked to have in the basic act. but negotiations mean that some of these things cannot be insisted on, and that other forms of legislation must be accepted. i would ask you, however, to continue the spirit and the climate in which the negotiations were conducted and in which this meeting took place here today, in the preparation and subsequent adoption of these delegated and implementing acts. it was a very constructive atmosphere - a climate aimed at having a regulation here that really meets these expectations of consumers and, on the other hand, of course, also meets the expectations of all honest producers, by not putting an undue burden on them. i believe that this regulation meets all these requirements. help us to restore consumer confidence in the safety of our food, in the quality of our food, to the extent that we deserve it! we have confidence in you, commissioner. we will also be happy to contribute to the implementation and enforcement of this regulation to the extent possible. keep us informed. we'll be watching very closely to see how things go.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. how can we achieve tax justice, fair taxation, as commissioner moscovici has just mentioned, when we know so terribly little about the money flows - where they come from, where they go - and when national governments are playing full part in this unfair competition to conceal these money flows? we now know more about these rulings through taxe 1 and taxe 2 and have made a lot of proposals. some of it is on the table. more light in the dark. very good. a number of things have been put forward, but there is still a lot of work to be done in terms of transparency if we are to achieve our objective of more tax justice. i'm addressing the code of conduct group now. i was one of the members who looked into this, and it is not only true what mr langen said that there is a lot of blackmail, but it is also quite embarrassing to see that the documents end in june 2016. so when it gets exciting, when we want to know how these tax haven talks are going, that's it. it's completely out of date. these are methods - an intergovernmental way of working - that are absolutely inappropriate today. another point: more transparency in public reporting by country. i would like to mention the point in the commission proposal concerning the information to be provided for the rest of the eu, i.e. those countries which will be available in a more or less aggregated form when we discuss the information. it is not enough to learn that money flows through liechtenstein to the bahamas, to singapore and then back to the european union. this is not at all sufficient to meet our objective of transparency.
in writing. – i welcome the progress that has been made on the regulatory level to fight tax evasion avoidance, aml and fraud. although the council has achieved results in record time, the commission should not become hasty and overstep its mandate. we are achieving good results in the field of anti-abuse measures and tax transparency. tax authorities in the member states now have automatic access to tax ruling and anti—money—laundering information in other eu jurisdictions, which allows them to provide for a level playing field, to combat money laundering more efficiently and better target investigations. i also fully support the leading role of the eu in setting up global good tax governance rule. although i welcome a common european approach towards fairer taxation, i believe fiscal matters should remain exclusive competences of the member states. fiscal competition between member states should not be curbed. fiscal harmonisation should not be used to protect fiscal expansionist governments at the expense of countries with lower taxes and better public governance. the idea of a ccctb deserves attention, but cannot be a precursor of eu fiscal powers. lastly, the growing importance of the ccg group must coincide with greater transparency and better communication with parliament and european citizens.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 15 march 2017. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on 'severe malnutrition and the threat of famine in nigeria, somalia, south sudan and yemen' (2017/2601 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. yemen, south sudan, somalia and nigeria are currently experiencing the worst humanitarian crisis since the second world war. people in these countries have access to less than four liters of water a day, and this results in an average body mass index below the threshold due to malnutrition. in yemen, we are now experiencing the third year of war. the situation is worst here, with almost two thirds of the population - that's 19 million people - in urgent need of humanitarian assistance. seven million people are in danger of starving. south sudan is another crisis-ridden country where a devastating combination of famine, disease and armed conflict threatens millions of people. in fact, the united nations declared a famine in parts of south sudan a few days ago. the situation in nigeria is also alarming, where boko haram, the african arm of the terrorist organisation is, has already killed 20,000 civilians. 2.6 million people are displaced, 5 million need food aid. in somalia, the situation is similar: there, islamic state and al-shabaab militias are responsible for the deaths of nearly 6,000 civilians. 1.4 million people are displaced, 6 million are acutely malnourished and 3 million are in need of life-saving assistance. the un emergency relief coordinator says we need $4.4 billion in urgent aid. the eu is very exemplary in this area. we have a great duty to help these people. we can't leave these people alone!
thank you, commissioner. i hope that we can help you and, above all, all the people affected by this terrible famine. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by patrizia toia, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the use of the 470790 mhz frequency band in the union (com ((2016) 0043 - c8-0020/2016 - 2016/0027 ((cod)) (a8-0327/2016).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. the internet of things, cloud and mobile services, the digitisation of industry - the keyword industry 4.0 - e-government or the g5 technology - all have one thing in common: they need communication networks that are fast, that can carry large amounts of data and that can reach the densely populated as well as the remote areas, the rural areas. in addition to new technologies for data transmission and reception, the gigabit society is particularly concerned with the widespread use of frequency ranges, in this case the 470790 mhz frequency band. the aim of this report is to create a uniform eu-wide frequency allocation in this band, which will enable businesses and citizens alike to access the high-speed, universal wireless network. we need fast internet, but it's going to be expensive. the german federal minister for transport has only recently calculated that the cost of universal broadband in germany alone will be around eur 100 billion. internet connections with a capacity of 1,000 megabits per second are expected to be the digital measure of things by 2025. the eu is less ambitious. all citizens of the union should have access to broadband speeds of at least 30 megabits by 2020. important point about this report: in order to achieve harmonisation of the frequency band, it is envisaged that member states will adopt their own timetable for the conversion of the 700 mhz band by 30 june next year. if we assume that the mobile internet will be multiplied by 2020 compared to today, capacity expansion is a basic prerequisite for the gigabit society. the rapporteur is to be thanked for that. i agree with mr hökmark that this report is particularly important in relation to the implementation of the 5g frequency, because the 700 mhz band is an essential prerequisite for this.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 15 march 2017. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the european union is a political union, a political union of nations, a political union of peoples, a political union of nations, a political union of nations. only, at some point it started to take a completely wrong turn. that was maastricht, that was a misconception of the euro, that was lisbon and it goes on to current developments, where attempts are being made to establish a banking union, an energy union and more and more centralism. it was the time when banks, as multinational corporations, as international companies here began to take control of our continent at the expense of the citizens of europe. we have finally come up with some conceptual proposals for the future. one is to continue as we have been - a wrong concept, to be sure. just as it is wrong to dwell on the mistakes of the past now. we have the concepts of a single market, we have the concepts of different speeds and of deepening cooperation in certain segments, where people want it and where it is also supported by a democratic majority. i expect you to start the process of debating this as soon as possible. you're not paying attention!
in writing. in the last 20 years, europe has become the richest continent in the world. european integration has led to economic growth, stability and peace. however, the greek crisis, brexit and the treatment of refugees have shown that we in europe are facing entirely new challenges. the people have lost their trust in the european union, and we must urgently regain that trust. we agree that the eu is not without flaws, but it is the best instrument we currently have to face the challenges of the present. something has to change. the commission's white paper on the different scenarios for the future of the eu has launched a much-needed debate. but now it's also about taking action and finding solutions: the eu must be the guarantor of tax and social justice in the future. the workers' movement has always been an international movement. the opportunities that the eu gives us to represent the interests of workers and employees at international level are unprecedented. these opportunities must be preserved! companies have been international for a long time and will continue to do so without the eu. but we need the european union as a means of fighting for the interests of workers and employees.
in relation to the decision by several committees to enter into interinstitutional negotiations, pursuant to rule 69c, paragraph 1, announced at the opening of the sitting on monday, 13 march, i have received no request for a vote in parliament. the committees may therefore start negotiations.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the explanations of vote are closed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. attacks like the one in brussels a year ago have changed europe. fear and uncertainty dominate the political climate, and calls for restricting important freedoms are growing. the terrorists must feel validated in this respect. but it is all the more important that we be discreet in our reactions. we have improved our border controls, we have introduced measures to register passenger data, we have improved the conditions of europol, and we adopted yesterday a weapons directive. there is still a lack of effective exchange of existing information. there is still a lack of proactive action. we need to pay more attention to radicalisation measures in the vulnerable environments - in prisons, on the internet and in the regions of origin. if we are to achieve anything in the long term, we must tackle the problem at its roots. it will be a long, difficult struggle, one that will continue to challenge us, as we are seeing now in the situation in mosul, where the city is being successfully liberated. we must now do everything we can to prevent the daesh fighters from infiltrating europe, as is easily possible, and to compensate for their defeat, as has happened time and again, by proxy wars here in europe. we need tailor-made concepts and decisive and rapid action. but above all, we must not look away and think we are safe. we owe it to the victims of brussels.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in principle, it is desirable to pay attention to the political and social conditions under which these conflict minerals are mined. certification is clear. it creates transparency. but certification also costs a lot of money, and third countries, such as china, largely do without certification and of course have a huge competitive advantage here. around 87% of the world's market capitalization of raw materials and mining products is uncertified. it would therefore also be desirable to recognise existing industrial programmes which focus on responsible purchasing - as we do in austria - in the eu. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for asking. it shows that obviously not very well taken care of. but i want to be clear: of course human lives matter, of course social conditions matter. as some countries already know, this is of course much more important. however, i would like to stress once again - and this is also important - that competitiveness should also be a component for us in europe. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. that is what i have been saying.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the negotiations are now under way, we have a solution on the table. do you think it would be possible to increase research on sustainable raw materials, now in framework research programme 9, in order to obtain substitutes for the minerals that would otherwise have to be imported?
the commission has already done so. who wants to buy products that contain violence and exploitation, so to speak? the conflict minerals regulation is a way of ensuring that trade in raw materials is conducted more responsibly. it is designed to ensure that commodities imported into the eu do not finance armed conflict or human rights abuses. european companies must therefore be held accountable for the sources of tungsten, tantalum, tin and gold. these minerals are mainly used in consumer products such as laptops and smartphones. european importers, refiners and smelters must comply with their duties of care and transparency. unfortunately, this does not yet cover the entire supply chain. it is our responsibility to end exploitation and violence in resource-rich countries and to promote fair and controlled trade with these regions. the regulation is a big step in the right direction.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank the president very much. we have had a direct democratic decision in the united kingdom: the people have decided by a small majority to leave democracy in europe. now, i'd like to ask you, why are you still here in this house? why are you still making speeches here when it was decided by direct vote that you are leaving democracy in europe? and here you want to teach us about democracy, so i want to ask: what is the background?
madam president, you know why it has become necessary to review that? because we have found that over the last one to two years there have been several parties – european parties and european foundations – that have found loopholes in our regulation. so it is necessary to do that. they have been doing things that are illegal and that are now under scrutiny. let me just answer some of the questions you had, commissioner. one is that i think we have to prevent cross-party membership. it has been said already. there have been meps from one member state party who have been supporting two different european parties, getting funding for both of them. this has to stop. on another [matter you raised], i think, and i am not alone in this, that we have to publish the names of those elected members, of the european parliament – that is [already] published – but also of national and regional ones who are members of the european political parties, because we are elected people and we are public. it is not about privacy. this is about knowing who makes up the european parties. you asked about national referendums. no, i am against allowing national referendums to be held, because the brexit campaign was a national campaign; you had one in hungary; we had one against refugees; we have had several. we cannot allow that. european referendums, yes, but not national. and the last one, i think we have to stick to one mep making up a european party, that is not... if we go further than that, this is not how to prevent abuse if we make it more than that. one is fine.
i have to say, madam president, a colleague from the epp said that he saw certain similarities with turkey. i can also tell you that i see some similarities with turkey in the course of this discussion. i am not sure that this is the case. and i think it's important to be clear that this is about taxpayers' money. it is not money coming from the epp or the socialists, but tax money coming from the member states, and that is why transparency is absolutely necessary. but where is this journey going? mrs hübner is not as clear as her own group leader, mr weber, who has already said quite clearly: no eu funds for the funding of parties critical of the eu. what does that mean? that is the real aim of this debate, the underlying idea: no more eu funds for parties critical of the eu. that means you're trying to silence the opposition here. this understanding of democracy, i can tell you, scares me. and once again, a new authority is to be created, again with taxpayers' money from the member states. i am telling you quite clearly: the millions of voters who vote for parties critical of the eu have just as much right to do so as the millions of other voters who do not. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. then it was a misunderstanding.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to ask my colleague, mr jo leinen, that when we speak here today of european added value, there is certainly a justification for this, and also the cost of non-europe. is it really conceivable that in future public tenders should include more small and mediumsized enterprises, because this could of course also lead to new jobs?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to thank michael gahler and gonzález pons for a clear, engaging and very substantive report. we act out of a sense of responsibility for our citizens. there is some progress in the european union's defence policy. the foreign and defence ministers decided to establish an eu military centre because they recognised that we face internal and external security challenges and threats that no country can solve alone. we have too little money, too few people, too little efficiency. the european parliament is making a further contribution to this debate. we want to see the permanent structured cooperation joint planning, joint research, joint procurement intensified and involving all member states. we need an extension of the tasks of the european defence agency. we need a european council of defence ministers, and i say a european defence minister, who together with the foreign minister will be pushing forward the common foreign and security policy. let us move forward faster than we have been so far. may the report give the right initial spark.
in writing. making europe's voice heard in the world the eu is more influential than ever, but when it comes to security and defence policy, the individual member states dominate. the challenges facing the eu have grown from the crisis in syria to combating poverty in africa, from energy dependence to hybrid threats. but the trump presidency and the coming brexit also require a united europe that speaks with one voice, loud and clear. a genuine common foreign policy can only work if the member states commit themselves to a solidarity approach and then implement it. there must also be a strong role for countries like austria, without thereby calling into question neutrality. the eu must not remain a paying player, but become a confident player. the treaty of lisbon provides this possibility. peace and stability in europe are not a given. they require active action. we should refrain from financing costly headquarters and from requesting additional funds without determining their actual use. we need a coordinated approach by the eu member states to a sustainable, actionable and european security and defence policy.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, first of all, i would like to thank my colleague mr tannock and the shadows for their very good cooperation and a very well-drafted and balanced report. montenegro has already made progress but still more needs to be done, whether on corruption, organised crime, reform of the judiciary, media freedom, the rights of ethnic and sexual minorities and gender equality. overall there has been some progress, but it is still not enough. nevertheless, i would like to congratulate the montenegrin government and citizens for the progress they have already achieved in their progress towards the european union. the issue of election day has already been raised. i have to say that, as greens, although we have no doubt about russian influence – not just in montenegro but also in other parts of the region – we would have liked to separate the language on russian influence and on the coup attempt on election day, because this is still under investigation. we do not yet have any independent information about what really happened. we would also have liked to separate the eu and nato, because this is about eu accession and not nato accession. nevertheless, thank you for including many aspects on ecology. i hope we will have your support for two more amendments tomorrow on the protection of lake skadar and our concern about 80 hydropower power plants, which need to be constructed with environmental impact assessments.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. zimbabwe is a great country with unimaginable potential. for many years, however, it has been held hostage by a corrupt and authoritarian regime, robbed of its future prospects. anyone who raises this issue and calls for respect for human rights is made an enemy of the state, as is pastor evan mawarire and many others. they are silenced by flimsy arguments. but soon there will be elections again, which will offer a chance for a new beginning. it's all about making sure they're fair. the european union must clearly position itself with election observers. but above all, in the run-up to the elections, there must be free access to information. restrictions on social media must be lifted. radio licences for private and community and non-profit organisations must be made available. above all, however, the politicization of food aid by the government must be stopped.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i would like to use the theme of the migration crisis here again, perhaps to put the issue of turkey in the focus of my interest, after we have been immanently accompanied by these provocations in recent days. it is a scary thing to hear, especially from the turks, and i think this deal with turkey is not worth the paper it is written on, and they know that now. it is a very serious matter today to hear the latest statement by the turkish foreign minister, who says that there will be religious wars. he's gonna make sure we have religious wars. it is not wise, of course, to respond to every provocation by a turkish politician with a counter-provocation. but as hopeless as this is on the part of the european union or the member states, it should not be. i can tell you that turkey will only respect you if you say: this is as far as we go. but these are - and this is the most frightening - the partners that the socialists and the conservatives are bringing into the union. the accession negotiations are only on hold, which would mean that we have your partners, whom you would like to see here, sitting in this house. the turkish foreign minister's talk of religious wars is very significant and i think we should be listening carefully. because we know that thanks to the failed policies of merkel and co. millions of migrants have entered europe, of whom we have no data, we do not know names and we do not know who these people are. mostly men submarines. the consequences of this policy are quite clear when one enters parliament. we're guarded by soldiers, the house is fenced, we're bunkering up. and this is the result of that policy. it is no longer an open house, as a parliament should be. this reminds me a lot of max frisch: the play "the beggar and the fireman" for those who know it. biedermann is a citizen who invites two arsonists into his house, provides for them, even though they make it clear that they want to start fires; at the latest - and i say this to you - after the next attacks, which will certainly come, we will probably have tanks in front of this parliament, thanks to the failed policy of the red and black.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. that is a new point in the rules of procedure. i have referred to the issue of migration, and that of course includes the agreement with turkey. i think that i have not gone too far in this respect, but have referred to turkey, to the refugee deal and to the current processes with turkey and with all the member states in europe.
i must apologize for the time. i think you had a little more time, but we had a technical problem. it'll be back on line with the next speaker. for the following catch-the-eye procedure, i have about ten word messages in total. i'll let everyone have their say. catch the eye
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the report by ms kateřina konečná, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on 'palm oil and deforestation' (2016/2222 (ini)) (a8-0066/2017).
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the consumption of palm oil has increased by some 700% over the last 30 years, and the result is now a real exploitation and exploitation in the producing countries. palm oil is now found in almost all products - whether food, cosmetics, detergents or other - as an additive. in all these products that we use every day, cheap, industrially produced palm oil is replacing some truly sustainable and, above all, home-grown alternatives. i am also surprised that political groups in particular are falling for the palm oil lobby's campaigns here, and in some cases are also demonizing animal products and animal fats, which are produced to much, much better and more sustainable standards, especially in europe. i would like to express my support for the demands for transparent labelling of palm oil in processed products and, above all, to appeal to consumers to always pay attention to where products are produced when making purchasing decisions. i would also like to stress my call for a butterfat support. we could easily and very efficiently use measures to reintroduce butterfat into food production and thus replace palm oil. and it should also make it more attractive to produce oil in europe. we could reduce our carbon footprint and also create more regionalism. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what we are forgetting here again and again is that, for example, ice cream and many other products were replaced years ago by cheap products, some of them palm oil products, and what was replaced was dairy products, and this could also be reversed and thus of course reduce demand in europe.
the commission has already done so. ten million litres of palm oil are poured into fuel tanks, into the tank, every day in the european union. between 2010 and 2014 alone, the use of palm oil in so-called biofuels increased sixfold. the examples we have heard today show that the idea of sustainable management is being taken to the extreme. just to give one example, in the last 25 years, malaysia and indonesia alone have lost as much forest as the entire republic of austria. a further 30% of the austrian area corresponds to the area originally used as swampland in malaysia and indonesia. we see that not only people are being harmed here, but also nature and biodiversity. we must tell palm oil to stop.
commissioner, this is about food safety, this is about transparency and above all this is about fair competition. the brazilian meat scandal is a mockery of european production and animal welfare standards, and i think that the loss of confidence is really enormous and that we have shown massive weaknesses in the eu checks on food imports. i also wonder where our consumer protection officers are, who normally, especially when it comes to european production standards, cannot be strict enough in their controls. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is high time that we finally slowed down in the mercosur negotiations and in the agreements on the agricultural chapter and instead really accelerated the development of quality external protection. consumers and farmers must be able to rely on the highest level of quality and control.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the first thing that comes to mind is that we need mandatory labelling of processed meat and we need it in the food industry, because only then will the consumer have the chance to make an informed choice, to know where the meat on his plate comes from. we shall soon have a new system of official controls in the european union, which will be strengthened in many areas. we want to control from farm to fork. it will be stricter, we will have more transparency, we will have more independence, we will try to avoid conflicts of interest. we have built in the whistleblower, so there is a possibility that information can also go out of hand to point out these illegal operations, for example in production plants. but it will not help us if we have strict import controls on imports but cannot rely on our partners in areas such as animal welfare. we also need provisions in trade agreements which insist that our very strict laws which apply in europe also apply to our importers along the entire production and distribution chain.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not mrs berès is an eminent economist. i would like to ask you: how do you think we can get more investment back into greece, create new jobs and above all make greece more competitive in order to export what is needed for consumption at home?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. according to expert estimates, the slow evaluation of the second adjustment programme is already costing the greek economy eur 2 billion, against the background of unemployment of over 27% and capital outflows as at the beginning of the crisis. greece is currently experiencing a creeping bank run. in march alone, 1.5 billion euros went abroad, on top of the 4 billion that have gone abroad since the beginning of the year. so, as you said, commissioner, i do not think there can be any question of a robust economy, and the economic programme, the economic data for 2017 are being revised downwards. the president of the bank of greece, mr stournaras, has already warned of further delays in the negotiations. he sees serious setbacks for the greek economy and especially for the greek banks, and he calls for structural reforms much to the displeasure of the greek government. and there will be no agreement on friday at the ecofin council either, as mr dijsselbloem has already told us in an interview. and the reason for this is that the tsipras government is delaying the reform steps that were promised when the third aid package was concluded in the summer of 2015. according to tsipras, all implementation commitments to the donors should be postponed until after the 2019 elections, and all internal critics such as the head of the central bank should no longer express themselves politically. otherwise, the fate of the former head of the greek statistical authority, mr georgiou, who was sentenced to eight months in prison for reporting correct statistics to brussels, is likely to be similar. this is a worrying development. this is not what greece needs. greece needs a rescue plan, an economic and stability programme that creates growth and jobs. the tsipras government has not yet put this forward.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the honourable member who spoke before mr kyrtsos, who has now praised the communist advance, said that he was in favour of a coup in greece. could he perhaps explain exactly how this works with the principles of democracy?
the commission has already done so. first of all, i want to thank all of you who have helped us take another very important step towards patient safety. the legislation is complex, extensive and highly technical. during the three-year transitional period following the publication of the medical device regulation, regulatory authorities must deliver the 80 implementing and delegated acts, 18 of which are mandatory. you will need to develop and test the eudamed online database. they need to set up new expert advisory structures and new eu preference laboratories. they shall re-designate the notified bodies approved for the assessment of medical devices dossiers. the commission has already set up a working group on the subject, which will be composed of representatives of the member states and the commission. i understand that the joint plan is to increase this group to about 40 or 45 people, and it appears that the recruitment seems to be going rather slowly. if we are to achieve what we have set out to do today, which is to guarantee maximum patient safety, then we must also ensure that the necessary staff is available. i believe that even the 45 people we are aiming for will not be able to meet this great task in terms of maximum patient safety.
mr. diaz de mera, i will give the floor to mrs. albiol guzmán to answer and then i will answer to you.
mr. diaz of mera, i know. you also want to ask a question about "blue card" to mrs. albiol guzmán. i said earlier, as my colleague sassoli did at the beginning, that there would only be a 'blue card' for intervention. you don't want to? i'm sorry, what was i saying?
mr diaz de mera, the answer by way of allusion can only be given at the end of the debate or you can put it in writing. that is the rule here, so i can give you the floor at the end of this debate or you can put it in writing.
no, i'm sorry, mr. diaz de mera, you are not on the mic right now. i have told him that if he wants to respond by allusion, he can do so at the end of this debate or in writing. those are the two rules there are; there's no other way, i'm sorry.
mr. diaz of mera, i have heard you. this is not something i impose on you: it's the rules we have here. if you wish to reply by allusion to 'third time i say so', you can do so, in accordance with rule 164, at the end of this debate or you can do so in writing. those are the rules. i'll give you the floor later. i'm sorry, that's the way it is. let's get on with the debate. we're not having an argument here, you and i.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. let me explain the rule to you again. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this debate. i'll do it myself or whoever follows me. or you can also make a written statement on this debate, in accordance with rule 162 (11), of no more than 200 words, once per sitting, that is, once this week. i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities.
i have to say, madam president, of course, this is about people, and it is about destiny, and that is why it would be so important to deal with the problem seriously. but, ladies and gentlemen, something has gone wrong with this report, at least in the choice of the title 'managing the refugee crisis'. we'll just open the door for everyone. how did they come up with that strategy, i wonder? the rapporteur said that we have a crisis of solidarity in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and to completely ignore the problems that are happening with this uncontrolled migration in europe is a particular work of art. but what i find even more remarkable is that this is still happening with the help of the conservatives and the epp in this house, with their president tajani having a completely different opinion on this issue and also communicating it completely differently outside.
i'm not going to let you down. i saw you want a blue card. but you've had a say in this debate before. since we're already very short on time, i'm not giving you a blue card. thank you for your understanding.
mr kłosowski, i saw your card when i had already given the floor to mr coburn, so i am sorry but i cannot take your blue card now because it was given to the previous speaker.
mr kłosowski, please excuse me if i am not pronouncing your name quite correctly. i explained first that i and the other members did not see the blue card you were using to ask a question to a colleague on this page until after i had given the floor to mr coburn. that means you couldn't ask that question about the blue card process at that moment. i hope you understand that, and if we see this in time, you will come to the next speaker with the blue card.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. europe is in a very difficult situation: the refugee crisis is not going to disappear from the agenda. a lot of it is self-inflicted. the solutions are mostly dominated by national interests, they are short-sighted and symbolic. if we are to overcome the crisis, we need european solutions, long-term and solution-oriented. it doesn't have to be about feelings, it has to be about cause and effect. without looking outside, we cannot solve our problems. mr valenciano and mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra have produced a very good and balanced report. it makes clear that we cannot be guided solely by security interests. the only way to achieve long-term stability is to press for respect for human rights and the rule of law and to create economic conditions that create opportunities for people. we need a development policy that is oriented towards this. we need an effective european instrument for immigration, and that includes humanitarian corridors.
i have to say, madam president, we're going to be dealing with this brexit for a long time. like many of my colleagues, i believe it was a bad decision, unprepared, ill-advised and short-sighted. how many i regret what happens now. we are going to be abandoned by our british friends and the people of the united kingdom are going to have a harder time too. but we must recognize that history cannot be stopped. it's like a divorce, but you have to consider the collateral damage. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not affected. these are the over three million eu citizens currently living in the uk. they made their decision to move to the country on the basis of other conditions. they have contributed to the prosperity of the united kingdom. she and her children must now live in a tolerable state of uncertainty. actually, their fate should be beyond dispute. we expect clear answers from our political friends, and they should not have any difficulty in doing so, because fairness and pragmatism are qualities we value in them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i feel sorry for the people of the united kingdom. they were misled for years before the referendum and in some cases even now. the eu was blamed instead of being held accountable, the added value of membership was concealed, the fact that membership was also responsible for growth was ignored. independence was promised, division risked and new dependencies created, 'money back' was promised and the consequences were concealed. there is no participation in the internal market without acceptance of the four freedoms, without respect for fundamental rights, without sharing the costs, without acceptance of the european court of justice. the negotiations are based on rights and values, on commitments made over 44 years. no more, no less than that. let's learn from this!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. now you have two ways to respond to this. they have the opportunity to centralize even more, following the juncker and schulz model, to disempower the member states even more, to allow even less direct referendums. or you can go the other way, you can give the member states more choice, you can give value to the parliaments in the member states, you can allow direct democracy in the member states, which can also be above european union law. what you should do now is to approach the british with friendship, to negotiate with the british 'meaningful fields of cooperation' and not to behave like in a war of the roses after a divorce or like two little children pecking at each other, but to deal with it as adults soberly and professionally and to serve both interest groups accordingly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just wanted to say that paragraph 37 (1) is rejected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that is why i am of the opinion that part 5 is no longer admissible here.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not not long ago, we celebrated the arab spring as the facebook revolution, talking about new ways for citizens to participate, and no one could have imagined that we would be discussing today whether fake news spread on social media could decide elections. so social media is neither good nor bad. they have a big impact and they expand public space across borders. social media creates new audiences and is a serious competitor to the established media. but it would be foolish to think that you could sit back and just watch things happen. we must not be driven, we must shape this process with the aim of expanding the possibilities for democratic participation. so what do we do? what we don't need is a censorship agency, a ministry of truth in the orwellian sense. the users, the citizens, are mature enough to judge things for themselves. to be able to play this role, of course, we need more information, more knowledge about the background, about how social media works, etc. in a way, we are all digital illiterates. secondly, the importance of enterprises. the code of conduct is an important step, but voluntary commitment is not enough. we need regulations, because blocking and deleting must be transparent and timely. users must be notified and adequately informed. there also needs to be the possibility of pleading and complaining, and there needs to be a public discussion about how to spot fake news. and finally, the possibility of counter-speech must be strengthened. thirdly, obviously, obviously criminal acts should be punished very clearly and promptly. but we should also stop it. above all, we should try to see social media as an opportunity to consolidate democracy. this requires mature citizens who are courageous in opposing hatred. you can't outsource the responsibility.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we live in a time when fake news, alternative facts suddenly become absolute truths, and when incitement against ethnic, sexual, religious minorities and also sexist incitement against women is becoming more widespread and more public, especially in social media. we recognize that the internet is not a law-free space and that it needs rules. because this internet has become part of our society, but the free, secular, democratic, pluralistic society that we have fought for has not yet taken root there. the winner of the peace prize of the german book trade, carolin emcke, said in her speech last year when she was the winner: "a free, secular, democratic society is something we have to learn. over and over. that means giving us rules for this behavior as well. rules are necessary. to the commission: it is good that you have this code, the code of conduct with the four companies. they have recognised the problem, but the implementation is flawed. because private companies can't just replace courts. yes, it's important that facebook can delete hate speech, but then it needs a final decision in court. that means it's necessary. and another thing: we need to improve the council's framework decision on racism and xenophobia. sexual orientation, gender identity are included, and the overall crime stock needs to be defined more clearly. let me give you two more examples of how you can do the same thing. my party leader in austria, eva glawischnig, and the austrian greens have so far conducted more than 40 trials, mainly on the grounds of threats to life and limb, hatred, insult, defamation and also clear falsehoods. we've won almost all of these cases. i mean, that's one way to say "stop" here, too. the funds that were then to be paid are made available to charitable organizations. and lastly, the former german minister for agriculture, renate künast, has chosen a different path. she's visiting without prior notice those troublemakers who've been calling her names on the internet. and you know what happens? when they're faced with their statements in real life, they get all small. that's another way to deal with these troublemakers.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is not left in the lurch. this is a sensational new discovery, but i'm very grateful that you brought it up today, because i remember it well: in my native austria, i have been hearing for years from the governing socialist party that pensions are regularly secured and saved before each election, but they are obviously subject to a permanent decline, also thanks to the european interest rate policy. i can well remember what our socialist state secretary promised us before austria joined the eu: 'every austrian will have a thousand shillings more in his pocket.' the result, of course, is quite different. so i appreciate you obviously giving me a heads-up. i am glad that the commission has taken this opportunity to make a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia. finally, i am very afraid of this discussion, because what you want is a truth agency, censors, and i am afraid of this kind of censors, because who is going to check these censors!
in writing. of course, we politicians know exactly what hate groups can do online. each of us will have experienced this. but that's nothing compared to what teenage girls and even grown women have to go through. so very quickly social media becomes anti-social media, which in the worst cases can lead to people ending their lives because of the attacks on them. this is why we must be particularly careful and consider measures. a similar socio-political problem is posed by so-called fake news. while this type of journalism played a major role in the recent us election campaign, attracting the attention of the mainstream media, it is also becoming more common in the eu. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the member states, and to extend it to cover the whole of the european union. more and more people are trusting their news consumption and that includes fake news on the internet. we must therefore raise awareness of this throughout europe and start to educate people quickly.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. thank you very much. i would like to congratulate the commission on the proposal. today is the 10th anniversary of the roaming regulation. a student from linz complained to me, and since then we've been roaming. we have always had a three-year plan, a sunset clause, which allows us to end the roaming period now. in fact, we are already preparing the fifth round of the digital single market. and ten years is: we have a child who is ten years old and who now understands a little bit what the digital single market has to look like. we have now achieved at least some competition within the member states and our citizens can finally go on holiday, our small and mediumsized enterprises can finally go on business trips within the european union and pay the same rate here as at home. so you no longer have to have two phones, two sim cards when you travel within the european union: of course, it is still very dangerous outside the european union. the tariffs for a gigabyte go up to 19 900 euros, whereas today in the european union we have an average price of 2.77 euros. and we're not going to be in a position until 2022 where this wholesale cap of 2.50 euros is below the average price today. so we are not setting prices here, we are just defining where fraud starts, and i think that is right, so that the citizens can rely on us. we have also made sure that there are no increases in national tariffs, that competition can take place at national level and - this is the most important thing - that investment is also provided for in the future. we urgently need the fibre rollout, we urgently need 5g, so that we can have a technological basis on par with wi-fi and a real digital single market can emerge.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i too would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs and also the commission. it was a very good, very constructive negotiation. we can be satisfied with the result so far, even though parliament would have liked to have seen more and we as members would have wanted our citizens to be free of roaming this summer, or at least as soon as possible, and to be able to move around europe as if they were at home. that would have been our political objective. the previous item on the agenda was on fake news, populism and so on on the internet and social media, and it was about the negative aspects of this phenomenon. but we have to be clear that we are talking about the new public sphere of democracy here, when we talk about digital media, when we talk about being online, and that this is first of all a question of democratic politics and secondly a question of the market - at least that's how we should see it in politics. i would also point out: there's so much criticism of the european union and its over-regulation and whether it needs to interfere in everything. this is an example of what european regulation can do for the good. we must point out that the market has failed in this area for decades and has failed miserably. why would you do that? because a consumer can only make a purchase decision if he or she is firstly informed and secondly has a choice and a choice. but nobody signs a telephone contract because maybe three years later, four years later, they go on holiday to serbia. when he gets there, he has to - mrs kumpula-natri has given the example - suddenly pay eur 1 000 per gigabyte in his contract because he has no choice about buying it. that's not how a market works. that's why there's regulation in this area. that is why regulation is necessary, good and democratically correct in this area. the difference between a single market and a free trade area is also quite clear here. if we adopt common legislation, if we make sure that we get the best out of consumers, then this european union has more than just a right to exist, and i think that is an example that we should make as loud a noise as possible.
i have to say, madam president, as a trained consumer advocate, i am naturally pleased that we can make such a significant improvement for the people. it is also the supplier's tariffs, and anyone who has ever cheated them knows that they are not always completely transparent. you work hard, and i'm guessing that's often not entirely unintentional. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and i think we've all had the experience of being faced with very high bills from our vendors. i had this happen to me the other day in mongolia. i turned off the data roaming on the plane, but it still logged into the network, and i had to pay 400 euros for data roaming. in this sense, even if you are technically savvy, it is not always clear to you when costs are incurred. i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. you should focus less on other things and more on these things, and that also serves the good of the people.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not my question relates to the positive effects that roaming can have. do you think that this will also help to stimulate tourism and that exports, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises, will play a major role? i believe that roaming could also be a significant positive factor in the economic recovery.
in writing. european consumers will no longer have to pay extra for using their mobile phones abroad. high mobile phone bills for calling outside the eu are thus a thing of the past. the european parliament and the council reached a political agreement in june 2016 on the new rules to be applied by operators in the wholesale roaming market from june onwards, on the basis of the commission's proposal. for several years now, the upfront prices for data roaming have been declining. the increase in data usage is one of the main reasons for this price decline. the increased use of data brings clear economic benefits, as it opens up new service opportunities. in addition, increased data use is driving more infrastructure investment, which means that consumers can use even more data. in my own country, austria, investment in broadband infrastructure is of the utmost importance, because the country is in the poor middle of the european scale in terms of digitisation. according to the digital economy and society index (desi) 2016, austria ranks only in the low 20th position out of 29 countries surveyed in terms of the share of high-speed broadband over 30 mbps. i therefore support the aim of abolishing roaming charges for end-users in europe, as this benefits consumers and keeps telecommunications markets competitive.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to say to the commissioner that tomorrow will be a joyful day for ukrainian citizens, when parliament votes for visa-free travel for ukrainian citizens for three months to the eu. this is something which my political group, verts/ale, has been fighting for for all the countries in the neighbourhood. it has taken some time, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the very good cooperation and the commission for its support. as parliament, most of us would have preferred to have had that rule entering into force earlier. council wanted to have the suspension mechanism, but finally we got it, and now there will be visa-free travel for ukrainian citizens. so this is a really joyful day. nevertheless, i would like to make two criticisms about what is happening in ukraine at the moment. one thing – which is not really a criticism – is that having the eurovision song contest in kiev in may is something that i fully support. nevertheless, i personally do not think that it was a very wise decision not to let the russian singer participate. the song contest should be something joyful for citizens from whichever country, and it should overcome the fears and the problems which exist in ukraine with russian warmongering, etc. the other point is even more serious. it is about the draft law on e—declarations, where civil society organisations will be obliged to submit e—declarations on their financial interests and assets. this is something that should go, and is going, for politicians and public officials. yes, we as elected people also have to very clearly declare our interests, salaries and assets. this has been happening in ukraine, but now legislators are going against civil society organisations – people who really fight for equal rights, more democracy, media freedom, etc. so this requirement is seen – and has to be seen – as a matter of intimidation that needs to stop. let me make one final remark about another country that i am rapporteur for here – kosovo – which still does not have visa liberalisation. i do hope that, as soon as the kosovo assembly votes for the two last requirements, that in parliament and in council we will have a fast move forward to give the green light to all of those citizens in our close neighbourhood.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. yes, there is much talk about so-called reforms in ukraine. but the constant exchange of government members alone speaks a different language. and the very fact that about a third of ukrainians, 15 million, obviously want to leave their country urgently speaks volumes and volumes. with this visa liberalisation - this report says so too - the path towards full membership of the union is clearly set. i think that is very flawed for several reasons. apart from the open questions of corruption, nepotism, fundamental freedoms and human rights, the necessary development costs for the member states and above all for the net contributors would amount to horrendous billions and would impose an additional burden on the budget. the union is therefore well advised to take the copenhagen criteria it has itself set seriously and to learn from the enlargement problems of recent years. in the end, this step is not conducive to improving relations with russia. on the contrary, the union risks being dragged into the ongoing conflict between russia and ukraine as a partner.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not belarus is a plagued country. there are few places in europe where people have suffered more terribly. yet they never gave up their will to freedom and their quest for justice. that is why we must not leave people alone, especially in these days, and we must not let the so-called criteria of stability deter us from doing so. this resolution of parliament is a signal to the people of belarus, a sign of solidarity and respect for the courage of the belarusian people, and it is a clear signal to the government in minsk not to continue on this risky course of intimidation and deprivation of liberty and to finally allow reforms. stability can only be achieved if the rule of law, democracy and human rights are respected.
author. – mr president, just imagine that you were 13, 14 or 15 years old and had been raped, and then your parents and the courts decided that it would be in your best interests to get married to the rapist. that is what the new provisions of this child marriage restraint bill in bangladesh allow for. this is horrendous and we have to speak out. i am glad that we have a sense of urgency now, because even though bangladesh pledged at the girl summit of july 2014 to reduce the number of girls marrying between the ages of 15 and 18 by 2021, this new law allows for so many exceptions that it is really a step backward and not forward. it could lead to an escalation of dowry abuse, sexual harassment, rape, acid violence, legitimisation of statutory rape and allow parents to force their daughters to marry their rapists. i am glad that we are speaking out very clearly against that. let me nevertheless also refer to something else where i think bangladesh still needs to move ahead. it is almost four years since the rana plaza disaster in 2013, when a textile factory collapsed, killing more than 1 100 women and some men, with more than 2 500 people injured. until now, the sustainability compact, which is supposed to improve the situation in the garment industry, labour rights and factory safety, has not been implemented as much as it should have been. so i ask the external action service and the commission to follow up on that to make sure that human rights, children’s rights and girls’ rights are taken into account in bangladesh.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i will ask – and i have announced this to the services beforehand –for withdrawal of this amendment now, for two reasons. one is that this morning, at the beginning of the session, president tajani made a very good announcement that he condemned the atrocities against gay men in chechnya, which happened just recently. the other reason is that, in agreement with some of the other groups, i decided to ask for withdrawal, but we are also planning to table an oral question on these atrocities against gay men in the next plenary.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not on 9 april, palm sunday, islamists in egypt carried out cowardly terrorist attacks against coptic christians during the celebration of mass, killing 78 believers. it is the terrible culmination of the growing persecution of the christian minority in egypt. after 1,400 years of existence, these ten million copts are now in danger of extinction. i ask that this matter be placed on the agenda pursuant to rule 149a. i would also ask for your support for a roll-call vote. i am particularly pleased, of course, that the holy father, pope francis, will be able to assess the situation later this week and will travel to egypt to visit the copts.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. no, i think the situation is most urgent. we should not postpone and postpone again. there are many, many issues which are as urgent as today or in this situation have yet to be decided to be put on the agenda. i therefore remain with the view that we should take up the issue and put it on the agenda - it is very appropriate for the visit of pope francis to egypt.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. prime minister orbán, this is the third time that you have come here to engage in dialogue with us, as you claim. i am listening to you for the third time and all i can say is that you do not want dialogue. they don't really want to listen to us either. you only come here to tell us that we - the eu - are your enemy and your opponent, and you want to stop us. it's only someone who feels weak, who's afraid. even with the laws you make in hungary to abolish the ceu university de facto, ngo law, this stop brussels campaign only someone who is afraid of democracy, who is afraid of free universities, who is afraid of civil society, does that. only those who, in short, fear criticism, criticism which is the salt of democracy. mr orbán, i think you should be arrested. that is the message - also from my side - to the commission, to vice-president timmermans, to finally start article 7 and to put the council before the alternative of continuing or finally speaking clearly. to you in the epp, mr weber and others: no one in your own party listens to you any more, and the only ones who applaud are the far right in this house when mr orbán speaks - no longer the epp. i think it's time to exclude orbán and fidesz.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am addressing the european commission and in particular commissioner thyssen. i would like to expressly welcome the proposals published today on the european pillar of social rights. secondly, social security and social fairness as the basis of social europe. the commission has already launched a pilot project to adapt the economic and labour market changes brought about by demographic change to the benefit of people. thirdly, i am proud that this political thinking comes from the european people's party, because we must not leave social europe to the left in this house. the socialist group has already made negative comments yesterday, when it was not even aware of the proposals. so my conclusion is: no reflex rejection, constructive cooperation across all party lines with maximum determination, involvement of the social partners. i am confident that with determination we can shape a social europe for the next generations - young and old. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i have not limited myself to the subject of motherhood. i have generally stated that we can use this line to create a social europe in such a way that we can develop a social europe without breaching subsidiarity, that is to say, without retaining national responsibility for employment policy in the national labour market, for social policy in the national eu member state to develop a social europe, and these commission proposals are exactly that. we will be dealing with this in a constructive but also critical way, particularly with regard to national sovereignty, and very intensively in the committee on employment and social affairs, and i am fully prepared to do so.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the outcome of this constitutional referendum at the latest makes it clear that we do not want to negotiate a day longer with turkey on membership of the european union. when i say that we do not want to negotiate for another day, i do not mean to suspend the negotiations, i do not mean to freeze them temporarily. it means to end these negotiations once and for all. it is also clear from the outcome of this referendum that we will not continue to pay a single euro to turkey. i am talking about hundreds of millions of tax dollars that are being made here in europe and then used against us in turkey. we will not tolerate any more that turkey pursues a policy against a minority, the kurds, which is absolutely unacceptable. we do not want to accept, mr hahn, that in austria we have the problem of dual citizenship, illegal dual citizenship, and that this is the reason why policies are being pursued in austria that are contrary to the interests of the republic. your foreign minister kurz is running around the boulevard in austria saying: 'we are in favour of stopping the negotiations.' you are his party colleague in the epp: i expect you to act accordingly and put an end to these negotiations.
the committee also adopted a number of opinions on the following subjects: the commission is not i would like to thank colleagues lehne and oettinger very much for actually getting back to the point that we need performance-based budgeting. in the development fund in particular, we have found that a margin of error of 5.8% is at the upper limit of tolerance. we also see, of course, that the court of auditors has done a good job. it is also something to be proud of, because there is room for improvement. we now turn to the european fund for sustainable development, which is more of a guarantee, a kind of guarantee. i always say, "if you vouch for someone, you pay for them". some of our colleagues believe that in this area too, this is money that can be spent and never returned. so it's important that you look at the return on investment here and that you guarantee that the money that's just borrowed here is also paid back to the taxpayer accordingly. that's why i think that "more for more" is important and that you shouldn't contribute to governments that are not democratic.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to thank you very much for the good and fruitful cooperation today and to echo many of the points made in advance. one of the points that is repeated over and over again is the error rate in the various areas. i think it shows that the work is done properly. i'd rather have a report that doesn't show any more mistakes. i think we have learned - and above all the court of auditors has learned - where the weak points are, and therefore we must also look at these reports very carefully, because we should be learning organisations, working with the audited institutions to determine why these errors occur and how we can avoid them together. the second area is the agencies, which i would like to address today. it seems to me that in the last few weeks and months it has become a kind of sport to hack into the various agencies and say: we don't need them. but the court of auditors' reports, all the work, the examination of the employment agencies have shown that they are very valuable instruments for implementing the demands we have as a european organisation, whether in the field of the environment or in the field of health. we have agencies that do a great job. i would also ask the commission to ensure that, in the course of the consolidation of budgets which is of course necessary, the agencies are provided with the appropriate financial and human resources to meet these requirements in the future and to meet the expectations of europeans.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their constructive work. a number of good compromises were reached in these reports. i think that the eib's focus on financing small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the backbone of the european economy, is particularly noteworthy. with a balance sheet total of over eur 600 billion, the eib is one of the most important financiers of smes, but also of microenterprises. in 2015 alone, 37% or eur 28.4 billion was lent to smes. welcomes also the importance attached by the eib to research and development, climate protection, innovation and competitiveness and the fight against youth unemployment; in 2015, around half of all new projects were dedicated to climate change. and, as president hoyer said, the eib is a world leader in climate action. the eib invests 90% of its capital in europe. in this context, the kyrtsos report makes a clear commitment to a stronger commitment to investment to manage migration and refugee flows, i.e. a stronger commitment to neighbouring regions in the middle east and north africa; the resilience initiative was raised. a new capital increase for the eib, as mentioned in the kyrtsos report, therefore seems particularly appropriate, not only in the context of sustainable development cooperation, but also to close the investment gap in the eu. because more needs to be invested in the eu - publicly and privately, or preferably jointly. the eib, the bank of the european union, can make a major contribution to this.
in writing. the consultations between the european commission, the european central bank, the international monetary fund, the european stability mechanism and the greek government are continuing. the imf continues to press for a debt cut for greece, while european creditors expect a primary surplus of 3.5% from next year and thus take athens' debt-carrying capacity for granted. in the context of the implementation of the reforms promised under the third bailout package, a debt cut as called for by the imf is politically unfeasible at eu member state level in the 2017 election year. the commission has already taken steps to reduce the debt burden by reducing interest rates and extending the maturity of the debt. the economic forecasts for the current year are good, but athens lacks liquidity to make the next billion-dollar repayment tranche in july. the progress report by the imf's european director, based on data not yet fully evaluated, appears counterproductive in this context, as it gave a pessimistic assessment of the implementation of structural reforms and of the future of greece in general. what greece needs is a forward-looking approach, a liberating blow in the form of a comprehensive economic and stability programme that creates growth and employment, provides incentives for investment and strengthens the purchasing power of the population. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the greek economy is competitive and that jobs are created.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. this report on the protection of the eu's financial interests also addresses very important issues and challenges in the area of tax fraud. the rapporteur has already said that we can only really fight tax fraud if the problem is clearly identified and then solved efficiently. the main thrust must certainly be to ensure that the funds are properly used and thus to restore public confidence in this area. the main problem in the field of tax fraud is certainly the vat issue. the rapporteur has pointed out at length in her report that vat is the main source of revenue for the member states of the european union and for the member states themselves, at 12.27%. and here we see that in the area of anti-fraud, every year, a value added tax gap of 160 billion euros is revealed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud in the european union. vat gap means that the failure is caused by both fraud and vat avoidance strategies. we know tax avoidance strategies from other areas. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their views on the commission's proposals. there are only two member states in the european union, namely the united kingdom and belgium, which have statistics on revenue losses due to crossborder vat fraud. in this context, a special report by the court of auditors found that the eu system is not effective enough and is hampered by the lack of comparable data and indicators on intra-community vat fraud. however, member states have a number of interesting instruments at their disposal to combat vat fraud. in particular, there are the following problems: lack of cross-checks between customs and tax data, problems in the exchange of data between the tax authorities of the member states and insufficient cooperation between administrative justice and law enforcement authorities. and as mentioned today, while the number of irregularity reports is increasing the number increased by more than a third from 2014 to 2015 the number of reports on fraudulent actions has decreased by 11% over the same period. i would agree with the previous speakers: we must follow up here, this cannot be done with the right things. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the budget. so what we need is more transparency, better cooperation, to return the necessary funds to the national budgets and the eu.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the figures we have heard today are impressive. if we have to assume that 28 percent of the products that are grown on the field, that ripen there, that are harvested there, never actually end up in the consumer's stomach, then we know: there's a problem here. it's a moral problem, and it's a political problem. it is a moral problem when we know how many people in this world are hungry, who, as we heard today, cannot even afford to eat a proper meal every other day. a political problem because it causes a lot of costs. the production also produces what we are warning about everywhere, namely additional co2 emissions. we heard it today: if food waste were a country, it would be the third largest country on the planet, after the united states and china. that means we have a very big challenge here. of course, we have to educate, raise awareness first. but we also need the conditions for the production that is done here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. how often have we been told, as an argument for using genetically modified material, pesticides, that we have to do this so that we can feed the world? if one third of the food we produce is thrown away, then there is no reason for me to continue this agricultural policy in its present form. we need a legal framework and we need the means to achieve a real halving of this waste by 2030.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the decision to relocate refugees was taken by the member states as an urgent and necessary solidarity measure. however, and i want to make this very clear, there is no eu asylum system based on a shared sense of responsibility. the commission has already made a number of proposals. to this day, the only response from the european side to refugees coming to europe is basically one: close borders and control borders. greece still has 62,300 asylum seekers and migrants waiting to be accepted in one of the 28 member states, while countries such as jordan, lebanon, iraq and turkey have taken in millions of refugees since the start of the syrian conflict five years ago. in this context, i would also like to remind the european council that the redistribution decision was a decision of the council itself and was also adopted by it. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. i therefore ask myself: how can we maintain our credibility at international level if we are not able to implement small solidarity measures within our own borders, if our own heads of state and government do not respect the commitments they have made themselves and which they have made binding on all member states? the member states have so far only really and effectively implemented a small part of the redistribution they have promised themselves. it is not a question of being able to do it, but of wanting to do it, because the capacity for it is there. i think we all know that. i would therefore like to appeal to those responsible here today: it is high time that the member states also fulfil their self-imposed obligations.
mr president, yesterday 35 syrians were killed – innocent people: men, women and eight children – because a bomb from the coalition forces went astray. just consider for a minute if these were your children, your relatives, your friends, wiped out, within a minute gone forever. it is horrifying because events like the one i have described happen every day – and not just this year, but for the last six years. what are we doing to bring this to an end? i am afraid not enough. sure, we help with humanitarian aid but, as for peace efforts, we are relying on the us, the un and, more recently, on russia. does the european union not have enough power – and i am talking about the political and economic clout – to pressure the proxy powers whose strategic interests are costing the lives of more and more innocent people in syria?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i am very pleased that we can discuss today with mrs mogherini the dramatic situation of christians in the middle east. the immediate trigger for me to ask for this item on the agenda was the terrible terrorist attacks on coptic christians in egypt on easter. but in this context, too, we must ask ourselves why, in the 21st century - after some 2,000 years - christians in the middle east are facing such terrible persecution. it is not just isis, al-qaeda, al-nusra - very well supported by saudi arabia - that are responsible here. we can say that an increasingly fanatical, aggressive islam is also playing its part. you can also pin this on organizations like the muslim brotherhood. the sharia ultimately does not tolerate any christian minority, let alone the practice of their religion. the european parliament and the commission are also supporting the european branches of the muslim brotherhood, such as enorb and femyso. the money is given 85 000 euros for a brochure for islamic youth organisations or even 450 000 euros for a sharia project in ireland. and they're also inviting an ex-femyso president to the libe committee here in the house to talk about islamophobia. you could have seen that their facebook account was full of contacts with hamas and the radical muslim brotherhood. with so much ignorance, what will our persecuted assyrian, aramaic and coptic christians think? you have to ask yourself, is the west really clear-headed? the christians in the east feel that europe has finally abandoned them, but they need our support more than ever, both in material and in ideological terms. please, let's move fast! praying alone will not do.
author. – mr president, tomorrow is the international day against homophobia, and that is why i am wearing this rainbow here – to remind everyone who is listening, who is speaking here and who is listening to us – that this is a day where everybody should stand up, like we are doing in this parliament, against homophobia, transphobia, against all kinds of violence against lgbti people wherever it occurs, in europe and on other continents. and as soraya post has already explained, this is a specific debate on what has been reported happening in chechnya, in the russian federation, in the last couple of weeks. arbitrary detentions, torture of hundreds of men, either really gay or perceived to be gay, and three of them at least have also been killed. they have been demanded to disclose the identity of other lgbti people. this is a life of fear that nobody on this planet should be allowed to live, and nobody who protects the perpetrators should not be brought to justice. it is clear that we demand in this resolution – and i have to say the resolution we prepared is one of six groups in this parliament, i really appreciate that there is broad support – we demand from the russian federation and the chechnya regime to protect lgbti people and also to speak out and say this is not against any religious traditions; this is something – being lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans or intersex – that has existed all over the planet in all times and all epochs, in all religions, in all cultures everywhere, and exists and should not be worked against. so now we also ask the external action service to see that the guidelines that we have are really implemented all over this planet in order to make sure that lgbti human rights defenders are helped by the european diplomats, and lots is done in that; we already have many good reports by that. i also appreciate that the eas is having the building illuminated on tomorrow’s international day against homophobia in the rainbow flags, and this is important to show visibility and to struggle for equal rights for everybody. (applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the situation in chechnya has been a cause for concern for many years. chechnya is the only region in the russian federation that has a steady influx of asylum seekers. this is a sign that human rights are being violated here in a systematic and provocative manner. news of the security apparatus' criminal treatment of gays or perceived gay men was shocking even to hard-core observers of the situation in chechnya. it is important that our house addresses these developments immediately, and the clear position of the commission should be emphasized. it is a clear and unambiguous sign that we do not accept this and it is a sign of our concern that discrimination against lgbti people and latent homophobia will always end up in the same way as what happened to him in chechnya. it is positive that the russian government has promised to provide clarification. but what is being done is by no means sufficient. we need real education.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have to say something to my predecessor: i assume he got the wrong speech with that was a subject error. we are talking about fintech, which is activities in the financial sector that are delivered by new technology and that extend to the entire financial sector. the fintech revolution has reached global scale, and the benefits are cost reductions, efficiency gains and greater transparency. we also have, of course, potential risks in consumer protection, in the stability of the financial system. more than half of the top 10 fintech companies are based in the us, china and israel. to remain competitive, europe must therefore encourage such rapid innovation. we have to support them. we need a european framework for this. we already have laws - such as the general data protection regulation, the payment services directive and mifid - that affect developments in the fintech sector. the report therefore intends to review the impact of existing legislative measures on fintech development, where existing laws create uncertainties and obstacles and further action is needed. we therefore call on the commission to draw up a fintech action plan to ensure that ... (the president withdrew the floor)
in writing. the fintech report highlights the importance of innovative solutions in financial technology for the benefit of the financial sector and in particular financial service providers. fintech solutions will help to reduce the operating costs for the financial sector and enhance the customer experience. fintech products are important for the future of the financial sector and a common european fintech strategy can help europe to become an international hub for fintech in order to solve interoperability issues, monitor and avoid regulatory overlaps and market barriers and develop a common strategy against cybercrime. i welcome the rapporteur's cooperative approach in this context, but i do not believe that it is the ecb's mandate to experiment with a virtual euro, because the aim of blockchain technology is to create a decentralised alternative to centralised central banks. the rapporteur agreed with this reasoning and dropped the recommendation. we must be open to innovation, including those who bring innovation to the market of payment methods and currencies. i also welcome the changes to the regulatory sandbox approach. such an approach would bring together a wide range of market participants and allow member states to copy elements of existing and functioning regulatory frameworks in other member states, i.e. to learn from best practices.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i do not understand why the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union cannot be negotiated between adults. they are behaving in a way that is like taking something away from a small child and throwing stones at britain. this is the wrong way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to add one thing to the record of mr weber, who has again attacked patriotic parties today and who is actually more a member of the greens than of the european people's party: the netherlands minus 50% for the government, plus 30% for geert wilders, france 34% for marine le pen. and mr weber's party has not even played along because the candidate, françois fillon, has sunk into a swamp of corruption. do not be deceived! these patriotic parties are now on the way to the middle station, and the way to the top is being steadfastly pursued.
in writing. the swift adoption of the guidelines for the forthcoming brexit negotiations is an important sign of eu unity. the negotiations over the next few years will be a challenge which we can only overcome as a strong community. the most important is to provide legal certainty for the 3.3 million eu citizens in the uk on their right of residence, access to the labour market and continuing education. the community must not be paralysed by these negotiations, because europeans rightly expect us to provide solutions to the great problems. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. our task must be to protect european citizens in the uk from the consequences of the brexit adventure. the british workers will be the first to be affected by brexit. the existing rights of uk workers in terms of working time, entitlement to leave, equal pay, parental leave and temporary agency work have been strengthened by eu directives. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. by the end of the bond-buying programme, that is, by the end of this year, the european central bank will have invested eur 2 500 billion in the purchase of bonds and debt securities. the bank's balance sheet will have grown to over eur 4.5 trillion by then. that's more than the federal reserve, that's more than the bank of japan, so an all-time high. despite these enormous sums, the bond-buying programme has not succeeded in bringing about structural reforms or debt reduction in the member states. quite the opposite. let us take italy as an example. the country has a 20% share of non-performing loans in its bank balance sheets, a public debt of 133% of gdp, i.e. eur 2003 billion, and the lowest economic growth in the whole of europe lower than greece or cyprus. the experts say that there are only two options left in dealing with italian debt: either the member states help the italians with a community and restructuring, or the ecb continues the crisis policy. but given the improvement in the cyclical situation and given the inflation rate we have now, which is already very close to the eu's price stability objective, i would say that it is high time to initiate a monetary policy changeover so that member states are actually reminded to implement their structural reforms.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we, in particular, are well aware of the problem of the portability of online services, given our massive travel activity. but it is not just us that it affects, it affects millions of people in europe who do not have access to certain services. for example, if someone has a contract with amazon prime in their home country and wants to use the service elsewhere, then of course they are annoyed that this contract cannot be fulfilled by a partner in another country. it is therefore our duty to identify and address such matters in legislation and to make them practical for the people of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there are rights holders whose rights could potentially be violated. this is something to be taken into account. so i say, the journey is just beginning with the online portability thing.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have a little tablet here that i like to use to watch a late-night tv show in my hotel room. when i open it in my hotel room here in strasbourg, the first thing i see is a button that i can press: "see also abroad". i am here at the seat of the european parliament and i am asked to watch tv series abroad. i think that this is far too little of a discussion in this whole debate, it is not about a single market and market regulation that we are doing here. it is a question of whether people who are here, who are travelling to the seat of a parliament which they represent, feel at home. can i cross a border in europe, can i use my equipment, my culture, my technology, as i do at home? and do i feel at home or am i abroad when i travel only a few kilometres in europe? this is a fundamental issue in a digital world, and we have to ensure that, as with roaming, european citizens - not just consumers - feel at home, and this regulation will ensure that, at least in part. that's good.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would first like to thank my colleague igor šoltes, who will speak after me, for bringing this matter to the agenda for my group, and i am glad that we are having this debate now. i was the negotiator for my group on this subject and i drew attention to several things at that time. there was no commission impact assessment on the impact not from the outset. it was clear to many of us that targeted controls would be much better. what we have now seen, and mrs fajon has described it from her own experience, is that there have been massive obstacles to holiday travel at the borders. the present system is simply not proportionate. it doesn't make us safer. anyone who believes that now with these massive border checks and everyone and everyone is being checked the terrorists are being caught: that's just not true. the problem is that the european member states do not even fill in the existing database with data. that is, it is often useless because the relevant persons are not in it. it would be much more sensible to carry out these targeted checks here rather than suspecting everyone. i can only say that i very much support the proposal to the commission which has now also been put forward by tanja fajon and others. i ask you to include in the schengen code the proposal that after 15 minutes of waiting time targeted checks can and should be introduced here. this is the proposal made by the two prime ministers, mr cerar and mr plenković. but this cannot remain at a bilateral level, because the problems exist between hungary and serbia as mrs gál has just said. the problems exist between gibraltar and spain, for example, and we cannot conclude purely bilateral agreements. so, we need proportionate solutions here, and please accept this proposal and let us amend the schengen code accordingly.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the transport sector covers a very wide area in europe and makes a very significant contribution to the economies of the member states. the sector employs 5 million people, representing 2% of the gross domestic product of the whole of europe. and that's why it's so important that we don't leave this sector to green disneyland fantasies. it is simply too important and too necessary for humans to do so. it is also necessary to increase global competitiveness. that creates jobs, that creates growth. but this cannot be done on the backs of the workers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so let us consider the essential elements of this sector and let us tackle them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the member states take out €280 billion from motorists and freight forwarders every year. 280 billion euros simply because it was decided that citizens should pay extra because they have to, want to or want to go from a to b in their professional or leisure activities. 280 billion euros and it's still not enough? i do not believe what has been said here under the guise of the user pays principle or the polluter pays principle. it's almost shameless. i would like to say this: firstly, we are representatives of our constituents, not their guardians. secondly, what right does anyone have to demand that driving should be more expensive? because we think we're the only ones saving the planet, or because something other than eco-waste is not on the minds of cyclists and railway commuters? thirdly, what have all the taxes and levies over the last 40 years brought about? did it reduce the mileage or the sales of a car? i'm not going to. it doesn't help to just keep increasing the dose. no toll in the world, no tax, no matter how high, will make citizens give up their cars. and why should they? the car is indispensable for young families, for commuters, for the countryside and for recreation. environmental penalties do not benefit the environment, but better technology does. let us invest in it, let us direct funds to research! that really helps, the rest is just expensive ideology and green folklore in the fight against the car.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the challenges facing european road transport are many: emissions reduction, new drives, automation, digitalisation - these are all areas that play a major role. i think that one of the biggest problems is the social sector. the trade unions keep telling us about precarious working conditions and catastrophic conditions: wages of eur 3.50 an hour, drivers who do not come home for months and have to sleep in the truck. the commission believes that there is no need for further liberalisation in the field of cabotage, driving and rest periods, as long as the principle of 'equal pay for equal work in the same place' is not implemented. what is needed is enforcement of rights and rules through tighter controls and better coordination between eu member states through a european road transport agency. the basic social rights of the people must take precedence in europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am pleased that this free trade agreement has become a real success story. as chairman of the european parliament's south korea friendship group, i can only say that we should continue along this path. the continuing development of the economy is creating opportunities for new businesses, especially now for small and medium-sized enterprises. we saw: the success of the project was, of course, exploited by the large multinational companies in europe and south korea. the trade balance position has developed positively. we have created new, attractive additional jobs not only in europe but also in south korea in particular. of course, south korea is currently facing a major challenge with north korea, where it is clear that a military dictatorial system cannot create the prosperity that south korea has brought with its market economy and open approach. the judgment of the ecj will also give us new opportunities, so that the powers are clearly regulated here too. it is also a valuable asset for the european parliament in particular, because it will enable us to move safely into the future. we also see that trade facilitation in the wto negotiations is a big step together with south korea to improve conditions here, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises, and that we must now also speed up implementation. i would also like to remind you that the european union is now internationalising the erasmus for young entrepreneurs programme, i.e. the exchange programme for young female entrepreneurs, and that it is focusing on south korea, so that start-ups and spin-offs from universities can also become more involved here in the future and jointly implement this strategy of action with success for both sides. commissioner malmström, i congratulate you on your efforts and i believe that this success belongs to all of us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the eu-south korea free trade agreement has now been in force for over five years. there are certainly many positive economic aspects to this. the south korean government has also committed itself to implementing international standards on workers' rights when signing the agreement. but that hasn't happened yet. the fact is that the working standards are not being respected and that there are still arrests and police violence at demonstrations. there can be no further negotiations with south korea as long as south korea does not fulfil its obligations to protect workers and does not take the sustainability chapter seriously. i expect the commission to act and to enter into talks with the new government. but this example also shows us that in the future, all trade agreements must have sanctions mechanisms in the sustainability chapter, because we cannot move forward with voluntary action.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the human rights situation in ethiopia is a matter of continuous concern to us in this house. the commissioner for human rights, stavros lambrinidis, also expressed concern after his last visit. contrary to official assertions, the ethiopian government is not making any attempt to change its restrictive policy. the arrest of dr godina, immediately after his speech here in the european parliament, was a particular affront. this course is detrimental to the ethiopian government. it is a very serious problem, and it is a problem which is not confined to the member states. and why should such a policy be rewarded? by jeopardizing these resources, it also jeopardizes the economic recovery that is emerging in the country. it cannot be stressed enough that the curtailment of human rights and the elimination of democratic structures will never create stability. on the contrary, they are a threat to stability, and this is something that must be borne in mind in the light of the dramatic situation in the horn of africa, with millions of refugees.
this was not really a point of order, but i accepted it because there was also another statement before and so i accepted both of those. but we are not having a debate on any of these things. this is just about a point of order.
ms forenza, we are not having a debate. i am sorry, i will have to cut you off. we are not having a debate on what happened yesterday in this parliament. this is on points of order, nothing else.
the next item is the vote.
mr takkula, you cannot use rule 59 on this. you have to use rule 190. if you want to do that you have to tell us, and then you need the support of a group, your group or another one, or you need 38 meps who support it. so my first question to you is: do you want to use rule 190?
mr takkula, rule 193 says texts adopted by parliament shall be subject to legal-linguistic finalisation under the responsibility of the president. as far as i understand, this has been done on this text. legal linguistic changes are fine and should be done with every text so they fit what it is supposed to mean. so if you are not asking for rule 190, i cannot follow up on a vote or whether you have enough support on a vote about referral back to committee, so either you ask for rule 190 or i have to continue with the vote. please decide what you want.
now i understand you well – you want to apply rule 190. do you have the support of your group? just a second, let me go one step after the other. do you have the support of your group? it does not look like it. or the support of 38 meps? will those who support the request please stand up? is it the alde group? all right. we have a group supporting the request for rule 190 on adjournment of the vote and referral back to committee. we will now have one mep speaking in favour and one speaking against. i will first give the floor for one minute to an mep speaking in favour of rule 190 and referral back to committee. mr dzhambazki, you have the floor.
mr dzhambazki, can you come to the end please? it was one minute but the time was set late.
mr dzhambazki, there are certain rules on how we proceed in situations like this, that is why i asked you to keep to one minute. the clock was set a bit late so thank you for finishing your remark. who is going to speak against the proposal for referral back to committee? ms verheyen, you have the floor also for one minute.
we have heard the arguments. what we are going to vote on now is just whether we postpone the vote or whether we vote on it now. let me put it differently. the question is: are we going to postpone the vote? is that clear to everybody? postponement of the vote. who is in favour of postponement? who is against? this is a majority. it was very clear, but i will check so that we do not have any concerns here. (the request to postpone the vote was rejected)
that concludes the vote.
i have more speakers than i can handle for the catching-the-eye procedure. i shall take two from each of the two major groups and one from each of the others. i beg your understanding. i shall address myself to those who have been present at the debate all along. catch-the-eye deals
i have to say, madam president, we have been waiting for two years for the road package to arrive. i am surprised to read that you, commissioner, have stated that you will now have to pay for every kilometre on motorways. well, this is actually crazy. there are good examples of this actually causing a detour. i hope you have not already got some things in your drawer, that you also want to fill the local or perhaps the national roads throughout europe with a road pricing. these proposed measures do not help the environment, nor do they help the farmers - who can only be helped by better technology. everything else goes into the pockets of the finance ministers. we know this: we have had a mineral oil tax for 40 years. i think the finance ministers are collecting far enough. apart from that - and this is really a big reproach amongst many other things that are perhaps good - the eu was not set up to centrally enforce some sort of green transport education.
the commissioner, mr vice-president! you've heard a lot of arguments, questions, criticism, but also approval. the end-of-the-eye method
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
in writing. in the fight against social dumping, the eu commission is threatening to take yet another wrong turn with its new transport proposals. we know that the conditions on europe's roads are sometimes disastrous, and if the commission now wants to exclude long-distance drivers from the posting directive by means of short-term variants, the situation could become much worse. what the commission is proposing is second-class deployment. this will make competition on europe's roads more unfair again. the positive aspect is that there should be a better fight against letterbox companies which set up companies from western europe purely to undermine workers' rights in eastern europe. but that's not enough. we must finally make the principle of 'equal pay for equal work in the same place' the industry standard. we must therefore punish violations more strictly and impose high social standards on all workers.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the new european consensus on development policy our world, our dignity, our future (2017/2586 ((rsp)). i would like to inform you that we are facing a situation here today for the first time: as we know, malta has elections and therefore the maltese presidency cannot take part in this mini-conference and will be represented by the incoming estonian presidency. i don't know if we've ever had a situation like this before. i am very pleased that the trio is working very well together and i would like to extend my warmest greetings to the estonian deputy eu minister, mr matti maasikas.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. the european parliament is clearly showing its responsibility and political resolve by this resolution. we can fight anti-semitism more effectively in the future throughout europe. i would therefore like to express my sincere thanks to the co-authors of the resolution, in particular mr aguilar and mrs wikström, with whom i have worked in an extremely professional way and with whom i have achieved a serious and excellent result. the increasing number of anti-semitic incidents in europe is creating an urgent need for action. it must be our common goal that the jewish population in europe can live without acts of violence and physical attacks, without hate speech and terror in social media, children can go to school, people can drive to work, go to the synagogue and spend their leisure time without fear and threat. i am confident that more and more member states can be persuaded to follow the example of the uk and - to my delight - my home country of austria, and to provide a starting point from which we can pursue the prosecution of anti-semitic offenders through new policing and clear jurisdiction, with the eu-wide definition of anti-semitism following that of the ihra. i call on all members of the european parliament to support this resolution resolutely, and i thank you in advance.
i have to say, madam president, antisemitism must have no place in europe. i think we can all disagree. and unfortunately, we have to find more and more often that jewish institutions and jewish people are under attack and the drama is sacrificed in that today synagogues in europe must be guarded. it also has -- and i know many of you don't want to hear this -- to do with last year's migration crisis. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the need for a european parliament to be set up, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. turkey must also be given further consideration. the acp members who make open anti-jewish statements - that cannot happen. and mr storch said it: there is also something from the european union which does not contribute to improving the climate, even in europe, namely the obligation to label jewish products. we should also seriously consider whether this is still the case today. thank you. thank you.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to start by expressing my sincere gratitude to the commission, the council and all the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation and support during this process. as i have already said, i find the council decision once again not to include police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the new multiannual framework for the agency to be regrettable. this is mainly for two reasons. first, i believe that from a legal point of view it is the wrong decision. following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters have become part of european union law and are therefore legally covered by the scope of the agency’s tasks. the second reason is related to the evolving reality in the field of fundamental rights. including police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the multiannual framework would better reflect the needs on the ground, by giving the agency the right of initiative in these areas. currently, the agency for fundamental rights can act only upon request by the institutions to provide comprehensive analyses in these areas, which are of obvious relevance to fundamental rights. a change in this direction would send a very important signal, especially given the recent and ongoing legislative developments at eu level in this field. as already mentioned, this is not the first time that the council has refused to include these areas of competence – as suggested by the commission in its initial proposal – hiding its political will behind a legal argument. during the past month we have had a very constructive, open and transparent interinstitutional dialogue and, as rapporteur, i could not wish for a better working method. however, i would like to remind the commission and the council that the result achieved is not the end of the process, but actually the beginning. tomorrow, hopefully – and i am pretty sure that this will happen – parliament will give its consent to the council decision and will vote on a joint motion for a resolution, which i proposed with the support of the majority of my colleagues in this house. the goal is to strengthen the opinions expressed by the council and the commission in their respective written statements, which were parliament’s conditio sine qua non for giving our consent. i really appreciate the will demonstrated by both institutions to improve the working procedures for the governance and functioning of the agency for fundamental rights and to clarify that the agency’s competence also includes former third-pillar matters. however, fair interinstitutional cooperation will require additional action to be taken in the near future, starting with the council and commission agreement on the interpretation of the agency’s founding regulation. moreover, without prejudice to its right of initiative, i warmly invite the commission, once the external evaluation of the agency has been concluded, to present the proposal for amendments to the agency’s regulation. this revision is necessary in order to improve the procedures for governance and for the functioning of the agency, and to align the regulation with the lisbon treaty. last but not least, i would like to thank the agency for its good cooperation and to reiterate the importance of its work and its key role in the promotion of fundamental rights across the european union.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, first of all, i would like to thank colleague rapporteur angelika mlinar and all the shadows for the very good cooperation and very proactive attitude in trying to get through what the majority here wants. i would also like to say a big thank you to the fundamental rights agency for all the great work it has been doing, all the staff there, for supporting us in our work for fundamental rights inside the european union. what the fundamental rights agency has been doing over these last years is something we definitely need. it is unique in providing reliable and comparative data, eu-wide data and studies, on all kinds of discrimination that human beings on this continent still face, be it because of being roma, as has been mentioned already by my colleague soraya post, but also lgbti people, asylum seekers and migrants. on data protection, the rights of children and disability too, we get such important material and studies for our work in all those fields from the fundamental rights agency. the case that we have here now – and it has been said by all of us who have been shadowing – is one of the examples where the commission and parliament have done a lot together to move ahead. it is the council and the member states that simply do not follow what has been on the table since the lisbon treaty. as both commissioner jourová and angelika mlinar have been saying, there is no reason why – in times of terrorism and the fight against terror and organised crime – police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters should not be included. there is no reason for that, so reluctantly my political group, the verts/ale, will give consent but i really want to see progress on that in the very near future, and i am addressing that to the council.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you, honourable members, for all your contributions and once again i share your concerns and i very much regret the council's position on the exclusion of cooperation in criminal matters and judicial cooperation. i heard here the question: why do we have a fundamental rights agency? i find it quite important in simple words to reiterate what the agency does and why we have it. the agency is doing targeted research, mapping the situation, explaining the trends, collecting data and providing all those findings to us, to politicians, so that we can take responsible political decisions. too much is at stake now and we politicians must make proper and right decisions, especially now at a time of brainwashing of our society through fake news. i would even say that, maybe with some pathos, we said we have an existential need of truth-based evidence which will enable us to take the proper responsible decisions. an hour ago here in this plenary session there was a very important debate about how to combat anti-semitism and we also spoke about the rise of hatred in the eu in relation to other groups of people, too. we spoke about anti-gypsyism and about the hatred against the lgbt community and against other vulnerable groups of people, and so i would like to stress here that the fundamental rights agency should deal also with the matters connected to this, especially criminal justice, because we need to make sure that all these groups of people are secure and safe in the eu, and we need to have the proper data to guide us in what we should do on this in the field of judiciary and police cooperation. so this is why the commission is now disappointed by the position of the agency. anyway, i would like to repeat my hopes that the european parliament will vote positively on the multiannual framework of the agency and we will look into the possibilities on how to improve the situation in the future for the fra so that it can do the proper work which we all need so seriously. commission's written statement the commission regrets the lack of agreement on the inclusion of the proposed new thematic areas of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the eu agency for fundamental rights' multiannual framework for 2018-2022. the commission recalls that following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters have become part of union law and are therefore covered by the scope of the tasks of the agency, as all areas falling within the competences of the union, under article 3(1) of council regulation (ec) n°168/2007. if these thematic areas are not included in the council decision establishing a multiannual framework for the agency for 2018-2022, the agency will continue to carry out its tasks in these areas upon request from the european parliament, the council or the commission, under article 5(3) of council regulation (ec) n°168/2007. following the external evaluation of the agency in 2017, the commission shall transmit the evaluation reports and recommendations to the european parliament, the council, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions and make them public. after having assessed the evaluation report and recommendations, the commission may submit any proposals for amendments to regulation (ec) n°168/2007 which it considers necessary, as provided in article 31(2) thereof.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, let me first say again that the council attaches great importance to the work done by the fundamental rights agency (fra) in the area of fundamental rights. at the same time the council is not convinced that the scope of fra’s task should be extended before the evaluation exercise related to this agency. the exercise that is under way already has been concluded and evaluated, as highlighted by commissioner jourová. for the future, the council will consider carefully any proposals for amendments to the fra regulation that the commission might decide to submit. this includes the possible amendments to extend the remit of the agency also in the areas of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. i am not in a position to say more at this stage. i speak on behalf of the council and therefore on behalf of all its members, but i can assure you that the council will follow the debate closely, and i have paid particular attention to all the valuable opinions expressed here today.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would just to like to wrap up what you have all heard here. it is very clear that the work of the agency for fundamental rights is highly appreciated in this house and that we really rely on all the information it provides. the quality of the agency is beyond question, and this is something that we have to be aware of. we have a rare jewel here. i say this sincerely, also from my point of view as a human rights lawyer in a former life or when i had a different career. you can see that you have a huge majority here in this house for the enlargement of its scope. i understand your position, but you can also be sure that we will not give up. i am quite well known for being persistent, so – with the support of the commission, which we fully support in its approach – we will come back to you after the evaluation exercise, which will soon be over. i really hope that the member states will then also appreciate the situation of the parliament and the position here in the house, namely that we do not see this as an enlargement, but just an adjustment in the alignment of the scope according to the treaty of the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. a new study by the consultancy firm boston consulting suggests that industrial companies can save up to 40% of their manufacturing costs over the next decade if they use the full potential of digitalisation. smart logistics, 3d production simulation, big data, cloud computing, robotics and advanced analytics are the building blocks of the factories of the future. the implementation of these and other key technologies such as 5g, artificial intelligence and quantum technologies will be crucial for businesses to become more competitive and thus able to create growth and jobs. however, successfully entering the gigabit society comes at a high cost. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of the candidate countries in union programmes. there is currently a shortage of some 180 000 it professionals in europe. the aim of the project is to develop a comprehensive and integrated approach to the digital economy, which will be based on the principles of the digital single market and the digital economy. digitalisation is currently the biggest challenge facing the european economy. we therefore need a clear industrial policy strategy so that europe can play a leading role in the world, and only in this way will it be possible to achieve the 20% reindustrialisation target.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the advantages of a uniform, counterfeit-proof design are clear. applicants must provide all relevant data to the immigration services before they travel and also provide assurances of return. ideally, the state should know who is coming. this, of course, creates the security we want and need. the question of how to ensure this security even with visa-free entry should not be forgotten. not everyone goes home after 90 days. what is the use of a visa-free system if the union's visa-free policy is undermining the system we are discussing? this year, for example, ukraine and georgia were allowed to join the growing list of countries with no visa requirements. the candidate countries kosovo and turkey are also offered such a liberation. the union's desire for expansion is a criminal act that ignores security concerns, but also the security needs of our fellow citizens. i am also afraid that in the future there will be more administration, that there will be administrative organizations, that this visa office will be centrally organized, that new agents will be created, that new administrative burdens will be created. we have to reject this as a matter of principle.
question no 3 by mr von wogau (h-0418/97) subject: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work my question is: how do you think the sustainable development goals, number 6, could be applied to this new strategy, particularly in the water sector, and how could this strategy be further strengthened to achieve the objectives sooner?
in writing. prima is a partnership between member states of the european union and mediterranean countries. the aim of this cooperation is to jointly develop innovative solutions for water and food supply, thereby making the supply more efficient, cost-effective and sustainable. the eu coordinates prima initiatives, while the development and implementation of concrete actions is the responsibility of the partner countries associated to the programme. in line with the priorities of horizon 2020, the general and overarching objective of prima is to build research and innovation capacity, and to develop know-how and joint innovative solutions for sustainable agricultural and food systems and an integrated water management in the mediterranean. the union's participation in prima is within the framework of the competences provided for in the tfeu and is limited to providing assistance (including financial) to the participating countries in the implementation of the prima objectives. participating countries will need to work together to better coordinate, align and embed national programmes or activities and ultimately develop a common long-term strategic research agenda. in this way, research and development can contribute to solving major problems in the field of food, health and social peace in the southern mediterranean countries and, by reducing the causes of displacement, also counteract mass migration.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. the reform of economic and monetary union is certainly a very important issue and a very important step for the future of europe and the eurozone, alongside a lasting solution to the refugee problem and a reorientation of defence policy. this reflection paper reflects the commission's opinion on this matter. i agree with you fully on one point you have made today, commissioner moscovici: the house should be involved more in the dialogue, because only in this way can democratic legitimacy be given. but the member states have also been very active in the meantime. you know that a working paper between germany and france on reform of the eurozone is expected by july. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. what monetary union needs is not more redistribution and more transfer, but more ownership, more competitiveness and compliance with the current deficit and debt rules. the euro crisis in particular has shown that hardly any member state is adhering to the maastricht criteria. why would i? there are no real consequences in sight. economic and monetary union also does not need further debt pooling in the form of eurobonds or esbis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we will thus be able to stimulate investment in europe again, to win the confidence of investors and to generate projects to match.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr fernández very warmly, because of course this action plan is creating new opportunities for employment. how do you think the new framework will have a positive effect on small and mediumsized enterprises, making it easy for them to operate not only in europe but also, above all, in the export sector, to open up new markets with public-private partnerships and to create prosperity on both sides?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have always known you, commissioner, as a very prudent and responsible man who has always insisted that decisions must be based on knowledge and that they must be based on empirical research. and that is why i am calling on you today to continue to act in this spirit. because what we have, what led to the decision that you want to extend it for ten years, we cannot rely on that decision because we do not know how these studies came about. we've had studies in the past that have said on the one hand, yes, there is a risk here. others didn't see the risk. now, if there's serious doubt that these studies by monsanto are really accurate, transparent and honest, and there's serious doubt that i can rely on them, then you can't use these studies to make a decision. i must ask you to reconsider. i think that parliament's position of a maximum of seven years was already a very broad one under these circumstances.
i have to say, madam president, we have already spoken a great deal today about the unimaginably sad humanitarian situation in yemen. and it cannot be emphasized enough, because it is scandalous that the international community is still not providing the necessary funds, because it is scandalous that the saudi-led military coalition is blocking and repressing all attempts to reach the suffering population with aid. it is scandalous that the western community of states - above all the united states, but also many member states - supplies the saudi regime with arms. these deals are immoral and shortsighted because they contribute to the prolongation of the catastrophic situation. unfortunately, the european parliament's resolution of february last year to impose an arms embargo for these very reasons has so far been implemented by only a few states. we should all be clear that the best humanitarian aid for yemen is to forgo profits from the arms trade.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. and rightly so, because only democracy, the rule of law and human rights can create stability. it was therefore positive that the council adopted guidelines on freedom of expression in may 2014. the importance of online media was also mentioned at that time. the document is still up to date, which is actually very rare in this field. it addresses important areas like hate speech or data protection. it is disappointing that a systematic evaluation as provided for in article 71 of the guidelines has not yet been carried out. i also highlighted in the 2015 human rights report the importance of a systematic implementation strategy, discussed with stakeholders. in the past year alone, it has become clear that online media not only influence the situation of opinion in individual countries, but also increasingly become a means of international dispute. if the union is really serious about its guidelines, it should do everything possible to ensure that this dialogue is conducted consistently and courageously on a broad basis. i hope that the estonian presidency will finally get things moving.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i am speaking on behalf of the greens/efa shadow, mr igor šoltes, who is just returning from kosovo at the moment, as he was the head of the ep delegation to the legislative elections in kosovo. first of all, let me say all the positive things we have in the report. i would like also to thank the rapporteur, mr mcallister, and all the other shadows for their very good cooperation on the topic. there has been continuous progress of serbia in the eu integration process, which i am very glad to say, and i am also very glad that the commissioner has announced that new chapters will be opened. this is important to show also that the eu is progressing with serbia to move ahead. there has also been progress, for example, on the issue of a functioning market economy, especially when it comes to small- and medium-sized enterprises, and i hope this will continue. nevertheless, there are several issues of concern, some of which have been raised already by colleagues: the issue of the strong rhetoric used during the presidential campaign by government officials against other presidential candidates, and other issues of irregularities that have been found. one area of strong concern is the savamala district in belgrade, where for one year there has not really been an investigation into the demolition of private property which took place there, and that should be done. another issue that has been raised by tanja fajon, ivo vajgl and others is the issue of freedom of the media, which really is of concern and is worsening. i hope also that, in the dialogue with kosovo and serbia, progress will be made on implementation.
rapporteur. – mr president, minister, commissioner, colleagues, let me say first of all there has been some progress in kosovo over the last year on issues that concern the relationship between the european union and kosovo. a stabilisation and association agreement finally has come into force, and that has included the european reform agenda and something we voted recently in the plenary: the participation of kosovo in eu programmes. so various things were re-signalled – and that is supported by this report – strongly signalled to kosovo, and to kosovo citizens: your future is in the european union. nevertheless, we also have to see that, over the last year, things have not progressed as much as kosovo citizens and also as we here in the european parliament would have liked them to go. the extreme polarisation of the political landscape (and i will come to the elections of last sunday at the end), but also no progress here in the european union. we still – and i have been rapporteur for kosovo since 2009 – do not have progress with five eu member states recognising the independence of the republic of kosovo. this is harming progress also. this does not give kosovo citizens the idea that we really want them and that they are part of europe – they should be part of the european union. so this report also regrets that still five members are not recognising kosovo, and you know, to those of you who come from those five member states, sometimes i wonder, when you then criticise corruption – organised crime in kosovo, yes, which exists, like in other parts of the region and also inside the eu – then why do you not want to allow kosovo to become part of europol and interpol? because that would help. so there is a contradiction in the position of those five member states, and i hope we will see progress in the next year. but let me come to some other points. in the normalisation process between kosovo and serbia we also have had mostly stalemates. we have had one progress: kosovo now has a telephone code of its own and not any more the monaco one or the slovenian one. it can be still be used, but there is this independent international telephone code. but nevertheless, so many things have been agreed between the two governments of kosovo and serbia, but implementation is still lacking on both sides. also from serbia we have had signs that were simply not helpful. the serbian nationalist train from belgrade to northern kosovo with signs on it: ‘kosovo is serbia’. this simply is not the reality any more, and people in serbia know that and the serbian government knows it. it simply does not help to develop good neighbourly relationships if things like that are supported. and as i said, what is lacking really is implementation. in kosovo itself, still administration of justice remain slow and inefficient. lack of progress has been made in regard to the protection of freedom of expression and media freedom, and several other issues. when i talk about gender-based violence, still women’s full rights need to be enjoyed, although there has been some progress as well. now let me come to the elections on that weekend. yes, finally, and it is good that these elections were passed peacefully. there have not been any disruptions. but we still have problems there. there are still voting lists that were not been totally accurate; the electoral system still not functioning well sometimes and financing of political parties were problems. so i think it would be very important also because we have had intimidation against kosovo serbs who would not want to vote for the socijalistička. there i would like to end with asking, as it is said in the report as well, that the leaders of the kosovo serb community should take full ownership of them being part of kosovo and not always referring to belgrade.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. 60% of kosovars did not vote in the recent parliamentary elections because they did not have confidence in their democracy, and the few who did vote chose radical forces voted overwhelmingly for a suspected war criminal. the election winner and designated head of government haradinaj is allegedly responsible for, among other things, kidnappings, murder, robbery, rape and organ trafficking. and after nine of the ten witnesses were assassinated, the tenth apparently retracted his testimony, and haradinaj was acquitted. the report correctly lists kosovo's difficult problems as corruption, money laundering, drug trafficking and uncompensated wartime rape victims. i therefore find it completely incomprehensible why mrs lunacek, in view of the desolate situation in kosovo, is recommending visa liberalisation. haradinaj made a campaign promise to grant the union a 90-day visa-free regime. it is absurd and unthinkable to me that we should now be asked to help to keep this election promise.
rapporteur. – mr president, let me first of all thank our colleagues for all the positive remarks and support that i got from so many of them, including from the council and the commission. let me also – before i forget – welcome the ambassador of kosovo to the european union, bernard nikaj, up there with valëza oruçi. i am glad he is here. let me also address the few – i think hardly any of them are still here – who have been very critical of kosovo. these are the non-recognisers and those from the far left and the far right. first of all, there was a verdict from the international court of justice in 2010, which said that the unilateral declaration of independence was in accordance with international law, and this was confirmed by the un general assembly. so stop saying that this is against international law. secondly, you will not be able to turn back history. the republic of kosovo exists and is recognised by 114 un member states. we will all continue to struggle to make kosovo part of that european union in a very positive way. turning back to what now has to be done in kosovo, a new government has to be formed, and i hope this will happen swiftly. we cannot wait another nine months as happened last time. this is because of kosovo’s citizens: they will not do it for us. it is not for us here in the parliament or for the european union that a government should be formed; it is for delivering on the promises that the candidates have made to the people, and it is for delivering what people expect: for example, visa liberalisation. it is sure that the new assembly now has to ratify, as swiftly as possible, the border demarcation with montenegro – there is no way around that – and deliver on the track record of convictions against organised crime and corruption. that has to be done by the government. without that, progress will not be possible and citizens will not believe that there is a new government that is theirs. that is important. we have the support, and i hope we will have a good vote tomorrow for this report in the interest of kosovo’s citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. comparing the situation of the union with that of a year ago, there is no doubt that there are signs of stabilisation. not only is the economic situation improving, but we have also gained confidence after brexit and trump. the situation is much more complicated in the area of migration and refugee policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and the process of relocation is still not complete, with tens of thousands of people still stuck in greece and the western balkans, and becoming a security problem for the region. and we are still not in a position to provide sufficient funds to the regions of origin in time. the liberation of mosul and raqqa is already preparing a new tragedy.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is hard to believe how many noble climate saviours there are here, when you walk through the garage of the house and see the many six-cylinder and eight-cylinder vehicles with correspondingly high emission volumes. it is also hard to believe when you look at the visiting programme of the house, the european parliament, where delegates fly to the most remote corners of the world to discuss important issues such as gender mainstreaming and others. but it's all right and all good when it comes to bashing america, when it comes to bashing trump; there is no limit to hypocrisy. let us take a closer look at this climate agreement, which you so enthusiastically celebrate. monsanto is at the negotiating table, the nuclear lobby is at the negotiating table. in reality, it is a knee-jerk salute to the nuclear lobby. and the real objective of promoting renewable energy has been neglected. and so i can only appeal to you: i would like to see the commission and the council agreeing on a number of points.
the political climate between the eu and the us has deteriorated since donald trump took office; now the us president is also making clear his views on global climate and its protection. trump's announcement to withdraw from the paris climate agreement is a step backwards for international efforts to control climate change. one of the greatest challenges of our time is to leave a clean and livable planet to future generations. in this regard, it is shocking how recklessly trump is putting at risk the hard-won paris climate agreement. even if trump thinks he can ignore all the science on climate change, the decision will ultimately have significant implications for the environment and international relations. the european union and its member states are now called upon to do so. the eu must not be negatively influenced by the short-sighted policies of the american president. we europeans must now take the lead. because despite trump, climate action must continue and be expanded - as far as possible - with more ambitious targets. let 's be clear . this announcement also means that europe can no longer count on the unpredictable us president even in such an important issue as the fight against global warming.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. european values what exactly are these supposed to be? who defines what european values are? do you think we can define this? only people outside europe can define that for themselves, and there are already huge differences across europe. and, colleagues, there is diversity. why not appreciate this diversity instead of fearing it? effective democratic institutions - yes, i can sign that right away. but an effective democratic institution also requires an effective opposition. and if you listened to the lady in the field before, she is more afraid of opposition than she appreciates it. sometimes i get the impression that you all want to tell each other the same story and applaud each other for it. it doesn't work that way. do not be afraid, my dear colleagues.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the council presidency, mr president, mr commissioner, the council presidency! 5% economic growth, 4.7% unemployment and a public debt of 58.3% last year - that's what has made malta one of the top performers in the european union, and that's probably going to be one of the reasons why you, mr prime minister, were re-confirmed by the voters. i congratulate you on that. but the panama papers have thrown a spotlight on the financial centre of malta, and the malta files round off that spotlight. however, malta's good macroeconomic performance is primarily based on financial services revenues. this includes the significant tax benefits resulting from, for example, the six-seven scheme on the refund of corporation tax. malta is commonly referred to as a tax haven, but it is not on the oecd or fatf blacklists. the panama commission of inquiry has been to malta and found that the investigation of tax evasion and money laundering is being obstructed. however, you have done very good work during your presidency of the council on the fight against tax evasion, in particular for greater transparency, and you have succeeded in signing the oecd agreement to combat tax loopholes, the beps agreement. i'm grateful to you. this is a good step and a step in the right direction.
in writing. the panama papers have revealed a number of things: letterbox companies, secrecy and profit shifts through questionable corporate structures. but above all, we have learned in the committee of inquiry that we do not have to leave europe to find offshore structures, letterbox companies, money laundering and the most aggressive tax planning. so before we look at panama, we must urgently clean up our own house. proposals for tax fairness are already on the table, such as the public country-by-country reporting of multinationals. instead of learning from panama, the conservatives want to cover up panama. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is transparent and that the taxpayer is able to make his tax return public. the ecr, alde and the epp are protectionists of the global multinationals. the fight for genuine tax transparency is continuing, and i expect support in the plenary and in the council. it is not possible for everyone to be excited about panama & co but not to act when concrete proposals are on the table.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we must note that the efsi is one and a half years old. and in those one and a half years, it has attracted at least eur 194 billion in investment, benefiting more than 425 000 small and mediumsized enterprises. we evaluated it after that one and a half years and said, we need to extend it to 2020, and we need more money, more investment volume to be triggered, and we're going to increase it to 500 billion. and we saw the weaknesses and said, "the efsi needs to be in the high-risk champions league". it must expand the development banks of the other member states. everything that's said here is part of our trilogy. we are discussing today the own-initiative report in response to the evaluation, but we also have a legislative report which is our work programme for the negotiations, where we can improve it. we do not say: more of the same, but longer, but we say: improve, but also prolong because it has done good. but the efsi is not just there to fill the investment gap. we must continue with structural reforms. we must strengthen the internal market. we must deepen economic and monetary union. we need a stronger investment climate in europe, and we need innovation, because we haven't closed the gap yet - but we are on the right track.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 15 june 2017. written statements (rule 162)
i have to say, madam president, there seems to be a broad consensus that we want to promote online platforms, digital economy. but i sometimes get the feeling that the ends and the means are already mixed up. the objective, the public interest, which we are pursuing with this can be multiple. we want the quality jobs in europe, we want the data and data protection in europe, we want the revenues, the profits and the tax payments in europe too - these are public interests. and this is how we should shape the promotion of the digital economy. i sometimes get the impression that promoting the digital economy itself - the main thing is that these companies are here, even if it becomes bad jobs, even if they no longer pay taxes, even if we give in on data protection - becomes an end in itself. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i am pleading for a very balanced approach. i do not take it for granted that all the amendments are the same. i even see proposals that go somewhat in the direction of, yes, censorship, surveillance and so on and allow the only interventions there. this is going the wrong way. we shall be watching closely to see how the votes turn out.
i have to say, madam president, today's discussion is an important prerequisite for the success of the digital single market - one of the most important and ambitious projects of the current commission, the implementation of which will be crucial for the economic future of europe. the collaborative economy is a driving force behind this. nicola danti has presented a comprehensive and well-founded report. the following points are particularly important for us social democrats: it is necessary to have a regulatory framework which encourages the development of this sector and earns the trust of consumers. this applies equally to all applications, whether i'm booking a room, booking a car ride or downloading a text. but the collaborative economy is not just a business opportunity. it could also be seen as an opportunity for a renaissance of the welfare economy. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the development of an ambitious eu industrial policy strategy as a strategic priority for growth, jobs and innovation in europe, by patrizia toia, martina werner, dan nica, kathleen van brempt, krišjānis kariņš, anne sander, jerzy buzek, massimiliano salini, on behalf of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament and the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) (o-000047/2017 - b8-0319/2017) (2017/2732(rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the financial crisis has shown us that a strong real economy and a strong industrial base are essential to generate growth and jobs. the countries with a strong industrial base have overcome the crisis much more quickly than others, and it is therefore all the more important to develop an ambitious and forward-looking industrial strategy, one which sets out medium- and long-term objectives in concrete terms and also sets out an action plan with measures to implement these objectives. this requires a joint effort by the commission and the member states, as many of the factors affecting the competitiveness and sustainability of industrial workers are the same. these are too little investment, difficulties in accessing finance and markets, high energy prices, high administrative and administrative burdens and, now more than ever, particularly in the field of digitalisation, lack of training content. member states are particularly called upon to provide the tax environment for businesses, to reduce administrative burdens through modern corporate taxation, to invest in and promote research and development, to develop transport, energy and communication infrastructure - in particular digital infrastructure for industry 4.0 - to implement structural reforms and to pursue responsible fiscal policies. the commission has a very important role to play, particularly in terms of access to financing options, in addition to bank financing, access to non-bank financing is the keyword. the european union is also committed to the development of a common energy and climate strategy, and to the development of a common energy and climate strategy. if we want to achieve the objective of 20% of gdp in industry, or perhaps more than 20% as you said, commissioner, i would be delighted. but then there must be this joint effort, then we need this joint industrial strategy, and then we all - the commission, the council and parliament too - must work together.
the debate is closed. the motions for resolutions to be tabled pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure will be announced at a later date. the vote will take place at the next partsession. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the case of the azerbaijani journalist afqan muxtarlı (2017/2722 ((rsp)).
for the greens/efa group mr president, i would also like to thank you and our colleagues on behalf of the green group for the tribute you paid to mrs veil. she was a very important woman for women's rights on this continent, especially in france, but she was also a symbol for other countries. i would therefore like to pay tribute to her for what she has done for women and also for europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are very much in favour of the pronunciation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. we are in favour of debate, but we are not in favour of a resolution being adopted here.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it has already been said by some previous speakers that the disbursement of macrofinancial assistance is subject to certain conditions, namely the principles of the rule of law and democracy, the fight against corruption and money laundering and, of course, the implementation of the venice commission's guidelines on electoral rights. but i would like to mention a fourth point: the disbursement of macrofinancial assistance and the resumption of disbursement from the european neighbourhood instrument are linked to the fact that this banking fraud scandal, which has been mentioned several times today, has also been fully solved. this is not just any crime, but the crime of the century, as the international media have called it. three banks have managed to steal one billion euros - that's half of the national bank reserves, and that's 17 percent of romania's gdp. the majority shareholder of these three banks is the chairman of the democratic party, the party that now represents the prime minister. it is not a good look, and the romanian colleagues know more about it than anyone else. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets.
the commission has already done so. there are already some positive developments in the fight against hepatitis: the availability of vaccination and effective controls for hepatitis b, potential cure in over 90% of hepatitis c cases. who has taken this into account and presented in 2016 a global strategy and action plan for europe to eliminate hepatitis b and c as a threat to public safety and health by 2030, thus not only preventing human suffering on a large scale, but also contributing to savings in the economy. the commissioner said that the commission had not yet taken a decision on the matter, but that it was not yet ready to take a decision on the matter. thanks to the 2004 dublin declaration on hiv/aids, this high-quality and comparable data on hiv/aids is available not only across the eu, but also across the who european region. these high-quality and comparable data are currently available but not for viral hepatitis. it is as if you were flying blind over europe. i am pleased that the european commission, under the leadership of vice-president timmermans, has committed itself to helping member states meet the un sustainable development goals and that it will provide data to measure progress in implementation - and you have reiterated this today. however, i would point out that for the purpose of hepatitis control or elimination, there is currently little data available. how do you intend to ensure that member states can achieve this, and can you envisage achieving a re-issue of the dublin convention for these three communicable diseases?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. yes, it was your first council presidency, and i would say quite a success. for small member states, it is particularly important to perform at european and possibly global level. i myself come from a small member state from austria , so i know how important this is. and you have done particularly well in matters of the sea and fisheries. but it has not been mentioned that you have concluded a far-reaching agreement on fisheries which has been pending for over a decade and which is of particular importance to the european union. you performed at the start of the brexit negotiations, where you acted as a mediator to keep the european union united. they have performed on some of the industry committee's issues, namely energy efficiency labelling, harmonisation of the 470-790 mhz band, portability, the wifi initiative and - most importantly - the end of roaming charges. but they also left some issues for the next presidency, namely digitalisation - which is in good hands with the estonians - and in the area of financial services the two vat files and the amendments to the fourth anti-money laundering directive. this may have a bad taste in the sauce - it has been mentioned before - and will hopefully be implemented in the next presidency. and of course the open issue of refugee and migration policy: here you have launched the etias negotiations, but many issues such as the funding of the africa fund are still open.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. thank you, hugues, for introducing our main points of this report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. public cbcr is great. the worldwide reporting of the profits and taxes of the big corporations is exactly what we need in europe. this directive is one of the commission's most important initiatives following the tax scandals. it holds the multinationals, but indirectly also governments, to account. all taxpayers must have the right to know what profits global corporations like starbucks, mcdonalds, monsanto & co. make, where they report them, where they pay their taxes on them. we in this house represent the citizens, we represent the taxpayers in all our member states. we need to prove that we're serious about this and provide our voters with a transparency that prevents unlimited secrecy by individual companies in collusion with governments. i therefore appeal to all my colleagues, to all the progressive members of this house, to the liberals, to the conservatives, to all those who have made a special contribution to the taxe committee and to the panama committee: the adoption of amendments nos 84, 85 and 86 corrects the rules established in committee votes. i have already received several indications that the clause proposed by us as co-rapporteurs is acceptable. let us vote to show that you too are against limitless, unlimited opacity, and agree with us! this worldwide publication of the corporate taxes we are proposing is right and important for many reasons. it is worth noting that the european parliament, with the support of almost all the political groups, is speaking out for publication worldwide. we want to make this publication global and publish the figures country by country in the future. we do not want to limit ourselves to the eu countries and the countries of the tax swamps. starbucks also notes that the commission has not yet taken into account the fact that the starbucks group is a publicly traded company. our idea of the directive is only for the very big ones, those with a turnover of 750 million euros a year. only data that are already available are to be published, and this worldwide, country by country. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to comply with the acquis communautaire. the global public country-by-country reporting is a key to transparency. it has enormous development value and it creates fairness for all those who pay their taxes. the publication of the number of employees allows everyone to see in which country the employees are registered, where the multinationals have their mailbox companies and in which country they only record their profits. transparency is a value for all stakeholders - for customers, for employees, for investors and, of course, for taxpayers. the transparency will not be detrimental to competition. on the contrary, it will attract investors, those investors who want sustainable businesses and who want to invest in sustainable businesses. that is to say, we want sustainable companies that contribute to the tax systems and the welfare state. i would like to thank all those who have contributed constructively. but we have a lot of work to do.
i have to say, madam president, profits are still made in countries where no worker is allowed to work. this has to stop. country-by-country reporting is one way to do this. we need transparency, we need publicity. the country-specific reporting does not solve the problem of tax loopholes, but the disclosure obligation creates pressure. we therefore support the intention of this report to disclose worldwide profits and to disclose worldwide how many employees are employed in the countries where profits are made and how much tax is paid on them. we must increase the pressure, the member states are not ready yet, and the disclosure requirement for banks has shown us how important it is to extend it to businesses.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. dear mr. dombrovskis, you see, it's going to be hot until the end. so our debate is really triggering a lot of emotion. i would also like to express my sincere thanks to all of you, and especially to mr hughes, for this intensive cooperation and the enthusiasm we have shown for this subject. you yourself said, mr dombrovskis, that it is a question of trust. it is a question of restoring the confidence of citizens in these tax systems. and of course it's about reporting, it's about disclosure obligations. but with this transparency, with these disclosure obligations, we can do a lot. so let me say a word about this famous safeguard clause. this must be properly drawn up. if it's too excessive, if it goes too far, then there's another hole in the emmentaler. and we don't want to make swiss cheese, we want to make nails with heads. we're in the legislature. and although everyone in the panama and taxe committees is always saying: 'let's tackle this issue', let's really tackle it: 'national, global, but now and here european'. and we want to take that responsibility and hope that we get a strong mandate. the council, of course, is the first to have to face the really tough negotiations, since it is often much more at a loss than this european parliament. so please give us your full support, ladies and gentlemen. we have a long way to go.
rapporteur. – madam president, we have a long way behind us but a long way before us. we would like to go back to the committee in order to enter into interinstitutional negotiations.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union is, despite all appeals to disbelief, in a phase which could give rise to cautious optimism. in such a situation, it would be important for the pro-european forces to come forward with a clear and unified message that sets a direction. we have missed that opportunity, and unfortunately there is no joint resolution. blaming it on the other side is not going to get us anywhere. the social democrats believe that the commission's work programme should deal with the problems of the socially disadvantaged and the overburdened. europe will only inspire people if the masses also see the benefits and do not have the justified feeling that inequality is continually increasing. so we need the much-invoked social pillar. without it, the european house will eventually collapse. you can't be a little social. this must be a promise for all within the member states as well as between the member states. many people today are unsure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but there is only security if there is social security, and there is only security if we are prepared to regulate certain things and not just leave them to the market. but social security and welfare also require that everyone fulfils his obligations. this includes tax justice and the curbing of tax avoidance. we need this clarity and our amendments seek to achieve it.
mr president, i would like to know from the commissioner how come that reportedly five eu member states voted in favour of saudi arabia becoming a member of the commission on the status of women. had there been no coordination in new york on that, commissioner? we want an answer to that, we want transparency about how eu member states vote. is it because some of those member states export arms to saudi arabia, despite an eu code against arms exports to countries that wage war against others, like saudi arabia against yemen? or is it because they have good business relations and don’t want to harm them? do women’s rights really count that little? i do not want to see that in the eu or elsewhere. we know that saudi arabia is one of the worst violators of women’s rights and human rights. even men like sakharov laureate raif badawi, who have demanded women’s rights, are imprisoned for 10 years. so i really want to know from you, commissioner, what happened there? why did all the eu member states not vote against saudi arabia joining the commission on the status of women? that should have been done.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there are things that cannot be invented because they are so grotesque -- like the decision to appoint saudi arabia as a member of the un commission on women, a country that systematically discriminates against women, puts them under male guardianship, does not allow them to open a bank account or drive a car, a country where women are subjected to systematic physical violence. how can representatives of such a state constructively participate in the further development of women's rights? what is even more absurd is that eu member states apparently voted for saudi arabia. there is no way that stupidity or ignorance was the reason. so what was it then? was there an economic reason? this is a serious accusation which can only be rebutted by taking part in a public debate. it is high time for transparency and clarity, because it cannot be that some member states tolerate discrimination against women. and i do not share the optimism of the commissioner whom i greatly appreciate. it would be nice if you were right, commissioner, but i am afraid that is not the case.
we are now going to the catch-the-eye procedure, and i will take one person from each group from which someone has come forward. there were only three speakers from the other groups. catch the eye
i would just like to explain to you that we have received information that mr preda should be given 30 seconds more and you 30 seconds less, so you only had one minute. i'm sorry, that's the information we got. there is no discussion. i'm sorry, i can't discuss this right now.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 5 july 2017. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by elmar brok, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, and silvia costa, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the future eu strategy for international cultural relations (2016/2240 (ini)) (a8-0220/2017).
i am not going to go into detail. i am not going to go into the details of the procedure, but i will make a few comments on the procedure. i would ask you all to really respect your speaking time. you're not getting more than ten seconds of extra time. thank you for your understanding.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 5 july 2017. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr andrey kovatchev, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the european parliament's recommendation to the council on the 72nd session of the united nations general assembly (2017/2041 (ini)) (a8-0216/2017).
before i give the floor to mr notis marias, i would just like to remind you that i am not accepting any more blue cards or catching-the-eye procedures.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 5 july 2017. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading by the committee on budgetary control and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the fight against fraud to the european union's financial interests by means of criminal law [06182/1/2017 - c8-0150/2017 - 2012/0193 ((cod)) ] (rapporteur: ingeborg gräßle, juan fernando lópez aguilar) (a8-0230/2017).
the commission has already done so. the conclusion of the negotiations on the directive on better protection of the european union's money and financial interests is, i think, a truly historic moment. google, starbucks and amazon picked the countries with the best tax benefits, criminals picked the countries with the weakest justice. that is precisely why we need the european public prosecutor's office. every year, the eu budget is lost €50 billion in vat fraud, in my home country of austria it is between €2 billion and €3.5 billion. so there is an urgent need for action. since the european single market, national borders for the movement of goods and passengers have fallen. at the same time, crime and organised crime no longer cross national borders. the powers of the european public prosecutor's office have now finally been defined. this has created the legal basis for the work of this authority. the european public prosecutor's office's powers of access to national authorities are particularly important a first step towards a common european criminal law. twenty countries are involved, and binding minimum and maximum sentencing measures have been established. we now begin with the european public prosecutor, whose task is to protect the financial interests of the eu. one thing must be clear: fraud with eu funds is fraud with taxpayers' money. money laundering, corruption and tender fraud must be brought to an end. and, commissioner, i would like to ask you to send my best wishes to mr juncker. it is now 0.10 a.m. and i am here - a member of the ridiculous european parliament.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 5 july 2017. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. this weekend, as so often, we will be looking at how to tackle the challenges of globalisation and its disruptions. we are all aware that we must shape globalization, or globalization will shape us. europe must join forces to do this. the problems within europe do not begin or end at the external borders of the european union. i therefore expect the g20 to make a clear commitment to combat protectionism, to multilateralism, to fair international trade and to respect for international agreements, international law and international values. yes, we need global governance. yes, we must make the future of our common world a shared responsibility. flows of refugees and migration are a global challenge, africa is a global challenge. let us fight for more fairness, justice, responsibility and cooperation! if you lock yourself away ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i have to say, madam president, the new presidency of the council is rightly expected to do great things. estonia though a small country has done great things, and in many ways estonia is a model, not just for the post-soviet countries. this is a very important condition at a time when the european project is beginning to take off again. i have two expectations in particular: firstly, that the estonian presidency will be able to create with a cool eye, a calm hand and the necessary pragmatism to make the union capable of acting again on the refugee question and that the digitisation of europe will be advanced. the internal market, e-governance, cybersecurity - you have rightly made these the main priorities, and this will also have a positive impact on the next presidencies. we expect a lot from you. but in all the euphoria we share with you, we must not forget that your actions have social consequences and that it is also about us doing our best to ensure that these developments also lead to everyone benefiting from them.
in writing. – in 2017 estonia will be president of the council of the european union for the first time. estonia was one the ten countries admitted to the european union on 1 may 2004 and it is hosting the presidency of the council in the second half of 2017. estonia is among the fastest-growing economies in the eu. estonia has a strong digital society and economy. one of the major tasks of the presidency of estonia will be digitalisation. the main point in the field of digitalisation will thus include the development of cross-border e-commerce and e-services for the benefit of consumers, producers and businesses. estonia will also push forward the promotion of e-solutions and so it is not surprising that estonia held the first online elections in 2005 and it is the first country to offer an e-residency. applications for the e-residency are growing fast. prospective buyers must pay eur 100 and wait around one month. after that procedure you can become a digital citizen of estonia and you have access to the single market. in two years these digital immigrants founded 1 600 companies. the target for estonia is to get ten million e-residents by 2025.
i have to say, madam president, and every day the groundhog greets you in the house. it is, i think, the third or fourth time since i have been in this house that we have discussed this subject. i want to make one thing very clear: turkey is simply not a european state, turkey is simply not a democratic state. because we know that erdoğan has been ruling this country by emergency decrees since july 2016. erdoğan is even planning quite openly, without any misdirection and without wanting to conceal this the introduction of the death penalty. how is it possible that this report then assumes that this turkish administration could still be brought up to european standards? how is it that this turkey still enjoys accession status? this is a candidate for membership of this club, the european union, which occupies part of that country or part of a member state by military means in cyprus. and this country still has accession status! the commission will be paying eur 4.4 billion in pre-accession aid to turkey over five years. i wonder who is being led to what? what happens to that tax money? six billion euros we pay for this supposedly good refugee deal. what happens to this european tax money? the question remains for me: who is still so heavily involved in this accession status? there must be very influential circles who want to see this turkey remain in the union. count lambsdorff said it today: freeze the accession negotiations. what do you mean, "i'm not"? it means that i can thaw what i freeze. we don't want to thaw anything. turkey can no longer have accession status, it must be ended. but that does not mean, on the other hand, that we want to prevent any dialogue with turkey. no, on the contrary! but let us be clear and be honest: there can be no accession status for this turkey in the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you very much, kati piri! emptiness-like places on beautiful beaches, bazaars where visitors rarely get lost, hotels that offer deals they can't make money from last night on tv. turkey is paying the price for moving further and further away from europe and european values. we have been reaching out for years, but the fist has been raised more and more often. ladies and gentlemen, think about this. would we today invite a country that imprisons journalists, judges, teachers and oppositionists, that has practically overruled the rule of law, to come to us? but we must continue to talk because turkey's geostrategic position is too important, and well over half the population is opposed to the current government's course. but negotiating eu membership? not under these circumstances!
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would like to congratulate you on this major step, because we are getting closer to our goal of creating incentives locally, in the developing countries and especially in our neighbouring countries, to create jobs and to give people confidence in the future. we have provided 350 million from the european budget in total, with 400 million from the european development fund. we have the guarantees and the $2.6 billion blended finance, and then we're actually relying on the private sector to take these incentives in a correspondingly strong way. we know that in developing countries, we have to make sure that the rural areas are the focus here, because of course the migration to the big cities, to the slums, brings additional problems, and that's why we should focus on incentives in rural areas. the commission has already said that small and mediumsized enterprises from the european union and those in our neighbourhood and in the least developed countries must of course have a chance to work together in the future, with a particular focus on renewable energy. we have fixed this 28% financing for climate change, that we can create digital markets there, that education and training are established and that above all the sanitary conditions with water, sewage are improved, especially in hospitals, that the social component is also the focus. but in the end, of course, there must also be investment contracts, because most of them are guarantees and the real equity - the cash - plays a very small role. the commission is therefore asked to manage these projects as best it can.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i had the opportunity to speak to 10-year-olds at a democracy workshop about the sustainable development goals, and one of the questions they asked me was, "why haven't you done this before?" and they gave themselves the answer at the same time. there were harsh judgments like, "maybe you were too greedy or just jealous". a few said: "the politicians probably didn't care". and some were a little bit more mild and said, "maybe they didn't know what they were doing". ignorance of what we are doing is no longer an excuse, and the wording of the 17 sustainable development goals shows that we care about the future of our children, the future of future generations. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. this own-initiative report is a valuable guide to action in the fight against hunger and poverty, for health and welfare, for equality, education, employment, climate and environmental protection. thank you, seb dance, for this excellent initiative.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we are discussing today a subject which the vast majority of european citizens are only following with a shake of the head, namely the fact that we have several seats in this parliament, that we have to travel to strasbourg once a month for four days, even though we - like myself, for example - already have two residences, one in vienna and one in brussels, where i also spend most of my working time, like all of us. many citizens are not just shaking their heads, but are expressing a determined refusal. in times like these, to spend 114 million euros a year on this travelling circus - and as a green i would add, to spend 19 000 tonnes of co2 on this - to actually use this parliament only 48 days a year - most of the time it is empty - is no longer possible today. no company would do that. it also has a european democratic political aspect. we as members of parliament want to decide for ourselves where we are going to be. we're not allowed to do that right now. this parliament has said many times with a two-thirds majority: we want one seat and not two. this means that we want to start a dialogue with the council, the heads of state and government, but also with the new french government. i would like to remind you of what a colleague has already said: simone veil dreamed of a european university in strasbourg. let us make their dreams a reality, together with the dreams of the citizens of europe and the vast majority of members of this parliament: one seat of the european parliament and not two.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. all the years again that could be put at the beginning of this debate. this debate is being reignited again and again. we have become accustomed to complaining about what seems unchangeable, only to shrug our shoulders at it. nobody understands this travelling circus, nobody understands this back-and-forth being. we've learned to accept that. perhaps the word "take" is the better word. the electorate, especially our electorates, does not understand this. this travelling circus is not exactly a plus for the european project. people want clear, definitive answers from us, which we cannot give them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we should be taking this discussion on the offensive and not waiting to be dragged into it anyway. we should take them seriously weigh the different arguments and without preconceived opinions. there are some cornerstones that we have to consider. yes, there are binding legal bases, which are laid down in the treaties. the situation is clear on the question of seats. but there are also a number of resolutions in this house which are unmistakable. we are committed to economy, to the principle of expediency and to avoiding duplicity. the more difficult the union's budgetary situation is, the more we have to look at it. and we have to accept - i mean - that these principles allow only one seat. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we can't afford to be in the dark forever. the final decision will have to be taken with the involvement of parliament. that is why we adopted a resolution in november 2013 on the location of the seats of the eu institutions, and it is up to the heads of state or government to act on this decision.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr omarjee, for his excellent cooperation on the report on the promotion of cohesion and development in the outermost regions. the report comes at the right time, before the presentation of the commission's strategy. as a green, i very much welcome the fact that the report pays great attention to the support and training of young people in particular participation in the european youth employment initiative and that students and young entrepreneurs should benefit more from the new erasmus+ programme. as already mentioned, geographical location of the outermost regions is of particular interest for research on climate change and biodiversity, and this is another strength to be highlighted. we greens are naturally strongly in favour of sustainable energy self-sufficiency in these areas, particularly the development of renewable energy sources, energy efficiency and the development of the circular economy. the report is clearly moving us in the right direction and we thank you for it.
the commission has already done so. the ecj ruling clearly states that the main responsibility for european trade policy lies at eu level, but that in the case of large-scale agreements, national parliaments will also take part in the decision-making process. we have now finally clarified the question of competence. however, the ecj judgment also states, in paragraph 161, that a breach of social and environmental agreements could lead to the suspension or termination of the agreement. this would enable effective enforcement of labour law, social and environmental standards. i would now like to ask the following question: firstly, when could the negotiating parties apply the suspension or termination of the agreement, and is there any provision for this? secondly, how would this procedure work? and thirdly, does this apply to all agreements or only to the agreement with singapore?
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i am a member of the sineea delegation and the delegation for the european economic area. we are clear that norway has lodged an objection to the moratorium with the international whaling convention and is therefore not bound by the moratorium under international law. as an austrian, however, i am particularly concerned with the animal-friendly fishing method. i believe that it is crucial that new training methods be found for small and mediumsized fishermen. we know there are about 100,000 minke whales; one percent is currently being fished and caught. of course, whale fish is a very traditional food in norway and the nature conservation regulations must be respected here too.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. if our relationship with china is to work in the long run, then we must also be honest with each other. so we have to talk about human rights. two cases concern us today - two of many, mind you. cases contrary to all international conventions to which the people's republic of china is a party. the case of lee ming-che is also contrary to the bilateral legal assistance agreement between taiwan and china. accordingly, the chinese authorities should have informed taiwan immediately of the arrest on 19 march. since that time, there has been no satisfactory information on his whereabouts and the circumstances of his detention. we therefore call for immediate information on the facts, the right to legal counsel and medical care and immediate release should the allegations prove unfounded.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on eritrea, in particular the cases of abune antonios and dawit isaak (2017/2755 ((rsp)).
what is the problem?
it is working now. ms vergiat, you get another 20 to 30 seconds.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
i'm not going to tell you. do you have any further answer to the question of financing raised by madame vergiat?
thank you. we will expect your answer.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on burundi (2017/2756 (rsp)).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. (the sitting was suspended until the vote was taken)
member of the commission. – madam president, i am honoured to speak, once again, to you about gender-based violence. your interim report is forceful and ambitious and thus reflects the urgency to take more and concrete actions against this tragedy, affecting millions of women and girls individually and society as a whole, all over europe. i am grateful to both rapporteurs, madam anna maria corazza bildt and madam christine revault d’allonnes bonnefoy, for the huge and joint effort made in preparing the document, informed by a number of hearings that allowed gaining better insights into the phenomenon and the many challenges, both legal and practical, in combating it. i would also want to extend my thanks to the members of the committee on legal affairs (juri) for the valuable input that the process received through the opinion adopted by this committee. the commission welcomes very much the report’s strong recognition of the istanbul convention as the best available to step up, together with the member states, the european union’s efforts in tune with our existing policy and legal framework and the union’s international human rights agenda. firmly rooted in international human rights instruments on gender equality, the istanbul convention is, on the one hand, the most comprehensive and holistic convention for the time being, and on the other hand, a highly pragmatic instrument. it requires precise actions to be taken and parties to be accounted for. therefore, i am glad that the eu signed the istanbul convention in june as part of the commission’s efforts in this year of focused actions to eliminate violence against women. the commission will continue to push the progress towards the eu ratification in the ongoing council discussions on the terms of conclusion. still, let me recall the mixed character of the convention, which includes areas that are not covered by union exclusive competence. this will continue to raise difficult and sometimes sensitive questions that we will need to reconcile with the political ambitions that are widely shared with the vast majority of member states. beyond the strong support for the union’s accession expressed in the report, we are also grateful for the many concrete indications on how to arrange the eu’s future implementation of the convention’s obligations, both in organisational and substantive terms. we will give them thorough consideration. the report rightly emphasises the need to give particular attention to vulnerable groups to address their specific needs, such as female refugees, and to enable all victims to actually use support facilities, as well as the links between violence and economic dependence and empowerment and the related need to see our efforts to combat violence as part of our overall strategy to achieve full and genuine gender equality in the european union. i would like to use this opportunity to inform you that this year, the annual european commission colloquium on fundamental rights, led by first vice-president timmermans and myself, will be dedicated to women’s rights, and that violence against women is one of the key topics on its agenda. it will take place on 20 and 21 november. i am pleased that the parliamentary event on violence against women will also take place on 21 november. these initiatives from the commission and the parliament will bring the issue of violence to the forefront of the political agenda in the eu: a place where it deserves to be.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. as a defender of human rights and women's rights, i naturally welcome the accession of the european union to the istanbul convention. it is an effective instrument to further strengthen the european union's leadership in the fight against violence against women. the binding act is an important addition to existing treaties, norms and standards in the field of women's rights worldwide and should be considered as a gold standard. i therefore regret the council's decision not to accede to the convention to the fullest extent possible, but to limit itself to a few chapters. our stated objective must be that eu accession to the istanbul convention makes a tangible difference in the fight against violence against women. it would be necessary to choose the most ambitious and not the easiest way. my experience as a politician has shown that we must never take rights - especially women's rights - for granted. we must fight for these rights consistently and tirelessly and raise our voices until, hopefully, a generation of young europeans sees violence against women as completely intolerable - as a crime for which there can never be any justification.
i have to say, madam president, in recent years, we have also seen a very regrettable trend in europe: violence, especially physical violence, is increasingly being downplayed. this is also true, and especially so for women. this is shocking. it is happening everywhere, in all social strata, in all age groups and in all member states. yes, and it's also become commonplace to make fun of women in a sexist way. as we all know, everything begins with words. the istanbul convention is the attempt of the international community to put a stop to these tendencies: it says clearly and unequivocally that violence against women and domestic violence is a violation of human rights and must be dealt with accordingly. the european parliament has been strong in this regard at all stages and has repeatedly worked to ensure that we are now ready. without our help, it probably would have taken longer. and you can rightly complain that everything takes so awfully long. but it's important that it doesn't stop at sunday speeches. and it's all about implementation, it's all about making sure that existing law is actually implemented. the resolution of the libe and femm committees points in the right direction. she's showing us how to proceed. it is particularly important that appropriate education and information measures are put in place. it can't be that young people experience violence as "cool". it is also about raising awareness among the public authorities, such as the police and the judiciary. there must be a clear awareness of this, otherwise everything will remain paper and wishful thinking, and that cannot be. (the speaker declined to answer a question from mr jurek under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
i have to say, madam president, the accession to the istanbul conventions is certainly a good thing or an interesting thing, but accession to a convention alone will not solve the problems that have accumulated in europe. let me highlight a dark segment of these problems: what was unthinkable in europe 10 or 15 years ago is now a bitter reality in many cities across the union. religious violence against women in parts of society governed by sharia law is not only a fact, but unfortunately increasingly not even pursued by our courts. honor killings of second and third generation immigrant women are often carried out in full agreement and with the consent of the family and their clans. the number of child marriages is rising rapidly: they are being contracted abroad and are mostly unfortunately approved by our authorities. i wonder what will become of our much-vaunted european values. or if i think of the example of new year's eve 2015/2016 in cologne and subsequently of numerous austrian and german cities on new year's eve, where there were mass sexual assaults on women, then this bad development is clearly shown: namely the contempt for the western european image of women by a growing part of the fundamentalist islamic population not least by the mass immigration in 2015. i think the union is increasingly blind and passive in this matter, ignoring these socio-religious problems. raising the gender budget wouldn't get us very far. the cycle of silence and the cycle of loneliness must be broken. violence against women, i agree with you, is not a private matter. sexual assault and abuse are not excused by appeals to tradition, custom or 'being from a different culture'.
in writing. between 2014 and 2020, the eu will invest over €12 billion in space activities. this is a well-placed investment, as europe is developing world-class space systems such as the copernicus earth observation satellite programme and egnos and galileo for satellite navigation and geopositioning. the european space agency (esa) is the european union's main provider of space-related services. the european space industry, including manufacturing and services, employs over 230 000 professionals and generated €54 billion in value added in 2014, representing 21% of the global sector. the technologies, data and services provided by the european space sector are already indispensable in our daily lives. space has become part of the global value chain. products and services such as the velcro, the solar cell, improved weather forecasting, navigation programmes, etc. have been developed and made available to the general public worldwide. another reason for the need to strengthen the european space economy is the future guarantee of europe's strategic autonomy. the commission will also be supporting the development of key and advanced technologies by strengthening the european space economy. high-technology sectors must be kept and developed in europe, and they help to maintain the competitiveness of the european location.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i thank the rapporteurs and the other shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation and i am pleased that the commissioner herself is taking part in the discussion today, because she will be in charge of implementing this project. even if the decision is quite good, there are several points that can now be made very good or very bad in the implementation. if 6,000 to 7,000 european municipalities can apply for free wi-fi and access is regulated by application and the order of applications, then this can lead to large municipalities, efficient municipalities applying first and this money not going where we really wanted it to go, namely to small, structurally weak regions. it will be the commission's task to encourage small and weak local authorities to apply as soon as possible so that they too can be involved. unfortunately, this is now a matter of implementation; we have not been able to enshrine it in law. there is a second thing that we will have to add in the next few years: we can only offer high-performance free wi-fi where there is high-performance internet. so there's no point in offering wi-fi in a public place if there's no high-powered network behind it. we will also need a programme to ensure that there is a high-performance internet in regions with weak infrastructure, otherwise we will have a bottleneck here. i'm afraid that was not discussed. this may cost considerably more than eur 120 million in the next period. one last point: privacy needs to be a very big deal. there is a lot of talk here about the value to democracy of this programme. the only way to do that is to provide real anonymity.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. of course, we are not going to start an internet revolution with 120 million euros, as was said today. but i think this report by carlos zorrinho is important because it has a very high symbolic value - a symbolic value for involving the small communities in the rural area and raising awareness in the community halls that digital networking, the digital society is important and that a concrete incentive is being created for this. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for bringing us all together so well - i was a shadow rapporteur - and for achieving this result, which i believe will have a high symbolic impact. after all, up to 8 000 municipalities are to be equipped with free wi-fi over the next three years. this will serve both the growing need for connectivity and digital networking. the pilot project will contribute to the development of an inclusive digital society, so that all europeans can join the gigabit society. eur 120 million this has already been mentioned will be provided from the connecting europe facility. the eu's finance ministers have already agreed on this and the first funds are to be disbursed later this year. the wifi4eu initiative covers the costs of equipment and installation, and the requesting public authority, i.e. the municipality, pays for network connection and maintenance for a period of three years. it also encourages communities - and i think this is particularly important - to offer more digital services such as ehealth or public services and to develop apps for them. the granting of grants is unbureaucratic, which is a major advantage, and is based on a first come, first served voucher system. i think the initiative is important. the geographical balance must be ensured and the sustainability must be ensured so that all europeans can join the gigabit society.
i have to say, madam president, in these times, there are also success stories at european level. in general, these are the efforts to achieve the digital single market. this is moving forward rapidly and we hope to work well with the new commissioner. wifi4eu is a very special success story in this context. within a year, the regulation was implemented. the european parliament has shown an impressive capacity for action, and we should especially thank mr carlos zorrinho. the regulation is an important step towards providing public wifi and shows that the public sector cannot remain inactive in the provision of services of general interest. the people have been waiting for this for a long time and it is worth listening to the citizens. we had an information event on the new regulation last week at the eu house in vienna and were surprised by the great interest shown by representatives of municipalities from all over the republic. that tells us we're on the right track.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, i would like to ask my colleague, mrs kumpula-natri, whether she believes that russia's accession to the energy charter could lead to a significant improvement in relations.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. in the debate on the movements of refugees in recent years, we have seen that the question of the causes of the movements and how to deal with them is also coming to the fore. the first is that we must have fair trade relations so that people's livelihoods are not destroyed and they are not displaced and then forced to flee. but it's also about arms exports. and i would like to thank my green colleague, mr bodil valero, very much for this excellent report, which makes it clear that the 2008 eu common position on arms exports is legally binding and that it prohibits arms exports to countries at war and to countries that violate humanitarian law. that is why i also support the call for a ban on all arms exports to saudi arabia, because saudi arabia is at war in yemen - that has already been mentioned. it must be clear that this cannot be allowed to continue. my own country, austria, also supplied 30,000 small arms to saudi arabia last year. this bloodshed in yemen must finally end. i support the call and call on the eu foreign minister, mrs mogherini, to actually initiate an arms embargo against saudi arabia.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not going to tell you. you say that this report is a pacifist report and that you cannot prohibit member countries from exporting arms. the common position of the eu on arms exports was adopted by the member states, by the governments of the member states, including france, and it sets out eight criteria for which countries arms may not be exported to, for example, if that country is at war. and saudi arabia is at war with yemen. there are civilian targets being bombed, there are markets and residential areas being bombed, there are thousands of dead and wounded in this country because of arms exports from france, germany and possibly also from austria and the uk and others. do you really think it's legitimate to say here that this is some kind of pacifist nonsense? this is about human lives and wars that are being promoted!
madam president, let me just say that i am very pleased with the resolution by the security council. it is a compromise, admittedly, but none of us would have liked the alternative and that is ratcheting up the warmongering from both sides. we remember that donald trump threatened fire and fury. what is in it for us, then? i think we must grab the opportunity swiftly and offer a mediating role which the european union can so uniquely play. we would be able to talk to all sides, to deflate the tension, pointing to our expertise as a valuable negotiator in the iran nuclear crisis. so i appreciate the high representative taking up the issue. i know you have a lot on your plate, madam, but this is about as urgent as it gets.
ms vautmans, just to explain, blue cards are only between members and not to the institutions. now you can have the floor for 30 seconds to address ms metsola.
the question is to ms metsola.
i am not going to go into detail. i have a request for a 'blue card' from mr zdechovský to mr pittella. but there is a rule that if you are on the list of speakers later, mr zdechovský, i will not give you the blue card first. i'd like to stick with that because we know that i'm going to let everyone talk a little longer or we're not going to keep up with the times. you can then, if you have the floor, address your question to mr pittella. is that all right? thank you, sir.
i'm not going to let you go. this is one of the possibilities that we have here from the bureau, when we are already very advanced in time, that we declare that those who are either still speaking in the same debate or those who have already spoken in the debate will no longer be given the floor via a blue card. i didn't come at the beginning of the debate, i came a little later. you then asked to speak. after looking at the time-scale, i have decided, and i say this again, that no one who is still on the list, or who has already spoken, such as mrs 't feld, who wanted to give you a blue card, will be allowed to speak. i hope you can accept that.
madam president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by making a statement which, if misinterpreted, may sound quite provocative. i think africa needs more capitalism. but not in the often-supposed exploitative sense of the word, but in the sense of providing opportunities to incentivise individuals to be innovative, to invest and to create value. because as long as africa's population grows significantly faster than its economy and governments put their own power interests ahead of the well-being of the people, people will always migrate and flee, and so will every single one of us. this is why development aid must always go hand in hand with the building of sustainable political and economic structures. i believe, therefore, that we must concentrate on concrete projects at the local level. the nicosia initiative of the committee of the regions is a good example. it's underfunded and underreported. but if we can find 1,000 european cities that partner with 1,000 african cities, and collaborate on everything from building and operating a hospital to waste management to agriculture, we will make tangible improvements for the individual. in parallel, we should create a kind of european fulbright system. the european union is also committed to the development of a european education system, which is based on the principles of the european union. the expertise we have gathered can achieve much more on the ground than the usual help that disappears in the absence of structures.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question, and i hope that he will give us a clear answer. this debate is clearly different. whatever we 're discussing here today: a big problem always remains, namely that hundreds of thousands of people are on the move, living in unimaginable conditions, becoming victims of criminal traffickers. i know the situation of these people from my own observations, i can't get these images out of my head, and i miss a policy that focuses on these people, that is geared to these needs. we urgently need sufficient financial resources, not just commitments. we need money urgently for the camps and not for mafia states and structures. we must ensure that the children in the camps have access to education. unfortunately, that is never the case, and it often takes a very long time. but above all, it needs structures of participation and voice, of the rule of law. only then will we be able to develop perspectives with those affected to reduce the influence of alienation by criminal organisations. yes, and we need humanitarian corridors, and for that, we need the participation of those affected.
i have to say, madam president, yes, madam vice-president of the commission, the eu must continue to massively increase its proactive role in managing migration. we have to stop illegal immigration because we have to create the space to create legal opportunities for actual refugees. which they are entitled to as real persecuted. this means that, in addition to effective and complete external border controls - which is very important - we need proper reception centres in africa, which can be the beginning of a rescue path for refugees, but must also be the end of the road for all other people who want to immigrate. the priority is to tackle the causes of displacement in the countries of origin. we must help people in regions where there is war, terror and persecution. we must therefore continue to give a strong impetus to military action, joint eu action of a military nature. but it will not be done without a european marshall plan for africa. and anyone who studies the marshall plan will know that, transposed to the present day, this means that no euro is spent without european control and that is the only way we can give people a prospect of life in the regions.
i now have six nominations for the catch-the-eye procedure, and i'm going to take them all. catch the eye
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on eu-turkey relations (2017/2840 ((rsp)).
thank you very much, commissioner. i hope we will have another opportunity to work together in the future. and i'm still a member of the european parliament until the end of october. so, maybe we'll see each other a few more times.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. since it seems to have been your last speech, although you will be here next time, i have let you speak a little longer. i would like to say to mr mavrides that you are also on the list as a speaker. that means i don't give out blue cards to anyone who is going to speak on the same subject or has already spoken. i beg your pardon, we're already behind schedule. thank you, sir.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the european union is not the european union and the european union is not europe. the european union is nothing more and nothing less than a club with rules, and those rules can be changed, and you cannot decide in which direction we should make changes here! i do not claim to be able to determine them. it is the peoples of europe who, by free and uninfluenced choice, are setting the course here. what commission president juncker said today goes in the opposite direction. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro in the single currency. we all know that the euro is far from a success story, it is a huge failure. the debt has gone up to the sky. we have record unemployment and record bankruptcies, and it is hardly possible to bring the euro back to a fairly stable footing after many waves. the second thing that juncker wants is to abolish all internal borders, knowing that tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, millions of africans and arabs are pouring into our continent, that there are fortunate people and terrorists among them. you know very well that the bataclan bombers came to europe through this road. to put it mildly, this is a real security threat to all citizens of this continent. the third thing that is being called for here is a defence union, which is in fact a military union. no, we don't want that. we austrians, who are a neutral country, cannot and do not want to take part in this. the only way to ensure a good future for europe is to allow more democracy, to let the people vote on whether to maintain schengen with borders, yes or no, to let them vote on whether to maintain the free movement of workers in a period of record unemployment. if you care about this europe, you'll allow more democracy. allow for pluralism. if you give the states a little more sovereignty, europe will work. it's not working now, and you know it.
i have to say, madam president, we are currently experiencing a peculiar situation throughout europe. thanks to brexit and trump, the approval ratings for the union are rising, but the state of the union is in contrast. we are a long way from having the migration issue under control, and the upswing you mentioned has not reached everyone. whole regions, especially in the east, feel left out. in addition, there is a dangerous, ever-widening gap between east and west. i welcome the fact that vice-president timmermans has taken a very clear line here. yes, the commission, as guardian of the treaties, must ensure that the charter of fundamental rights is respected. of course, this also requires a willingness to dialogue. i particularly miss that from those whose political business model is to make a name for themselves at the expense of brussels. but there is a way to do that: brussels must become better, more democratic and more social, and they have provided a good model for that.
mr president, mr president of the commission! the greens' motto for europe is: 'stay critical of the eu, but stay!' we want a socially just, ecologically sustainable union so that citizens can finally believe in it again. cosmetic changes are not enough. the commission has already made some interesting proposals, but as far as trade relations are concerned, the interests of the big corporations are still at the forefront, and transparency is still not what it should be in a democracy. what we need are fair trade agreements, otherwise any talk of tackling the causes of displacement is really a lie. i like your commitment to our freedoms, such as the rule of law, the fact that there should be european voters in the next elections, and also that you are now working with the european parliament to change the rules for the funding of european parties and foundations so that far-right, anti-european groups can no longer fill their coffers to incite against the union and against the principle of solidarity. overall: it is not enough to describe the situation of the union. we must get out of the rut and make this union truly solidary and credible for all its citizens.
in writing. mr president, in your speech today you have pointed out some of the wounds in europe. if you warn that there should be no second-class citizens in europe, then we are at the heart of the social question. europe will be social or it will not be. this means that we can no longer look the other way when a worker in eastern europe earns less than half of what a worker in western europe earns. we must not ignore the fact that one in two young people in southern europe is unemployed and that young people throughout europe are in precarious employment. we need a european union of social standards - for that, mr juncker, you have my full support. i also fully support your proposal to create a european labour authority. there is no way around the need to finally revise the posting of workers directive. the principle of equal pay for equal work in the same place must finally become a reality. let's get to work.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. dieselgate i think that the name is a bit excessive, because someone in the group was probably over-motivated. and i warn you against demonizing all combustion engines, putting them over the top and saying that the combustion engine is the cause of all the problems we have with transport. but i know, the greens are happy to do that. the greens are happy to stir up fears in this context. what do you want, green man? what do you want? if i have listened to what my colleague has said before, you have made it quite clear that you want to ban diesel cars and take away the diesel cars that are still on the roads. it's called expropriation, my dear greene. you can say that as clearly as you want. and where is this journey to go? the manufacture of electric motors and the manufacture of these batteries is not particularly sustainable and environmentally friendly. and where does the electricity that powers these cars come from? dear green, the electricity comes from the socket and this may be new to you, but it is not made there. dear green, the fact is that we don't know where this electricity is produced - there is nuclear electricity, there is coal - wherever this electricity may be from. this electric mobility is not the green yolk of the egg now. there are two reasons why we are in this predicament. one is that managers here have cheated in the automotive industry. the other is that the emission standards are not yet achievable from a technical point of view. and on the other hand, don't be too naive, because the question is: cui bono? who benefits from our doing such damage to the european car industry?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am used to the fact that we sometimes have some strange discussions in the european parliament. the debate today is a bit of that for me, it is one-dimensional and transparent. it was also brought in by the greens. i do not want to be misunderstood, but i condemn in the strongest terms what the car companies have done. it is intolerable and should be punished. but on the other hand, i want to talk a little bit about limits today. we have a limit of 40 micrograms per cubic metre of nox on the street, we can have 950 in the workplace, and toxicologists say that at 8,000, there is a slight irritation of the respiratory tract. so much for nox. let's talk about fine dust, which is a huge health hazard. the limit is 50. when i smoke a cigarette in my garage, i emit the same amount of particulate matter as when i run my new diesel car for half an hour. or, if i light a match in my apartment, it can cause up to 700% more than the limit. or: london underground has been measured between 500 and almost 1200 purportedly a clean transport. i would urge that we look at the limits. i don't want to see the limits on diesel now or anything like that, but i want us to just find a fair access and see that we're really creating something that's good for people and good for the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the commission! what we've seen here is massive, multi-billion dollar fraud on tens of thousands of consumers -- people who bought new cars because they thought they were cleaner. it didn't work. it was also a fraud on the health of citizens, on the health of future generations, and not for nothing have the car companies in the united states of america had to pay 20 billion dollars in fines. what about here in europe? the commission - and i must say this very clearly - has failed here. they have represented the interests of the corporations and not the interests of the citizens of this continent. but the german and austrian governments have also failed. they were content to say that it was enough to make software updates and finance them. my colleague claude turmes has already said that these are fakes. it doesn't work like that. we need to make a serious effort to upgrade the equipment with hardware rather than software, and above all to provide adequate compensation for all those who have been defrauded of a lot of money in recent years and for those who have been told by the car companies that they are now getting clean diesel. it's not possible. it's not possible. this scandal must be used as a signal to phase out fossil fuels. from 2030, no new diesel or petrol vehicles may be registered. we owe it to the citizens of this continent. we need affordable and environmentally friendly mobility.
the commission has already done so. it's about health. this is another issue - environmental protection, health - on which most europeans say that this is the task of the european union. this is a problem which we cannot solve adequately at national level. that is what we are talking about today, we need a package of measures. one of these measures was the limitation of the emission values for motor vehicles. people have come to rely on the fact that when they buy these products, they get what they are promised and promised. we have now established that people have been cheated not only in economic matters but also in matters of the future. we know this and we have heard it today that 400 000 people die prematurely every year in the european union from respiratory diseases and related ailments. we know that in austria alone 8 200 people die every year from air pollution, 20 to 30% of which is also caused by diesel vehicles. to deny that is like saying the earth is not round. i hope that we will have the opportunity, as the president has said today, of having a single market for consumers, just as we have a single market for cars. we need the possibility of a european class action, because only then will european law on this issue really be accessible to every citizen.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not unfortunately, it always takes a disaster like the grenfell tower fire in london to bring about a debate and an attempt to introduce improvements. i particularly welcome the initiative of 'fire safe europe' because i am an active member of a fire brigade myself, and so three things are very important to me from my own experience: the aim should be to use the high standards we have in europe - as in germany, austria and switzerland - as a basis or as a best practice. secondly, the safety requirements for objects must also be oriented according to the size and use of the object. what may or may not be true and important for a 30-story office building may not necessarily be wise for a one-story bungalow. thirdly, it is important to me that there is also a balance between security and innovation. i am thinking here of the energy-saving sector, and i think that this is something that needs to be considered. there is also a project in sweden that is already working on this. i am very happy with all the measures being taken in europe and will therefore give it my full support.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the report by martina dlabajová and momchil nekov, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on culture and education, on a new european agenda for skills (2017/2002 (ini)) (a8-0276/2017).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, 14 september 2017. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on nord stream 2 (2017/2832(rsp)).
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on cambodia, in particular the case of kem sokha (2017/2829 ((rsp)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in june 2016, the united kingdom held a referendum on leaving the european union, and 52 percent of the british people said, "yes, we want to leave the european union". a year and a half of shock, a year and a half of chaos, a year and a half of confusion! what's happening here, on both sides, is not professional, it's more like kindergarten. i can only appeal to you to respect this democratic decision and not to play tricks behind the scenes. because what i hear and what is heard behind the scenes is that a plan has been in the works for some time to keep the british in the european union by means of a second referendum, by delaying the negotiations and by many other tricks, and to sabotage and boycott this democratic referendum. i appeal to you to respect the decision of the british people. treat it fairly and professionally. make sure that neither side gets any disadvantages! as a net contributor, i can only say: make sure that countries like austria do not have to bear the burden of the euro.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is in the interests of all of us that the brexit negotiations be concluded with consistency and a sense of reality. for too long nothing substantial has actually been going on, and that is mainly due to the british side. now it seems to be getting some movement. that's good! people are tired of hearing speeches. results are necessary. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there are two points of reference: this is ireland. we do not need new borders or a revival of old conflicts. but above all, it is about the millions of union citizens in the united kingdom and britons in the eu. this is about people who have planned their lives on a completely different basis and who must not be put at a disadvantage or even discriminated against because of it. that's what we need to focus on.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to make it clear again at the end of the debate that this parliament will adopt a resolution today by a large majority, which is a logical follow-up to the decision on parliament's negotiating position of april this year. we are therefore adopting this resolution with great unanimity, because we want negotiations, because we are predictable and determined to have a clear position. this resolution is taken by the party party for the people, party for the peace process in ireland, party for the taxpayers, party for our legal, political and moral obligations. this must be the basis of negotiations, because we are committed to our common values, common law and common objectives. the european parliament has always been a party to the violation of the law, to nationalism, extremism and lies as a political instrument of tactics and strategy. the majority in this parliament is on clear grounds. you know what you're dealing with when you negotiate with us.
dear colleagues, before proceeding to the votes, allow me to make a short personal statement. some of you know that i am the leading candidate for the austrian greens in the snap elections on 15 october. this means that i will be leaving this parliament. it also means that this is the last time i will chair the votes with you as your vice-president. (loud applause) i would like to thank you for these eight years in which i have been working with many of you in this parliament, sharing this spirit of cooperation rather than confrontation that unites us, or at least the majority of us here, and also for the three years as one of your vice-presidents. they have been very good years for me, and i promise you i am taking this european spirit that i have experienced here with me to our national debates and to the austrian parliament. i am also looking forward to working with you in the future in a different function, because we need strong national parliaments as well as a strong european parliament. thank you very much. (applause)
that concludes the vote.
before adjourning the sitting i would like, on a personal note, to thank the interpreters for the great work they have been doing and continue to do in this parliament, and also to thank all the departments of the administration with whom i have really enjoyed working.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the republic of moldova remains one of the poorest countries in europe and is held hostage by the corruption of a few oligarchs. between 2007 and 2015, the union provided €782 million in financial assistance, and according to the acting president, igor dodon, at least half of this amount has disappeared. now you can say: yes and, the gentleman is moscow-oriented and therefore also so politically motivated. however, under the pro-european government coalition of the alliance for european integration, half a billion has also disappeared into the swamp of corruption. a further approximation should therefore be considered. further financial support to moldova should be rationally considered in the light of this rampant corruption and not be motivated by a political desire to provoke russia once again.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are in the year 2017 anno domini in europe, ladies and gentlemen, and what is it that we have to talk about in this house? we need to talk about children being forced into marriage with grown men. what is the root of this evil? you can see how the left side has to bend to avoid touching the root. the root of this cruel practice is the unrestrained immigration you advocate, unrestrained immigration from muslim countries where the sharia law allows girls to be married at the age of nine. this legal practice contradicts every european law that has been in force since the romans invented it, when they more or less invented law. so the problem is uncontrolled immigration. and this house is constantly over-emphasizing gender policies, which completely ignore the issue. on the other hand, child marriage is tolerated here. well, that's not gonna work with us.
in writing. with this resolution we are sending a clear message against child marriage. i fully support the fight against child marriage. i would, however, caution against mixing up different subjects. i therefore reject the request concerning sexual and reproductive health and related rights and services, including safe and legal abortion. i also reject the idea that the european union should provide funding for the funding gap of the global gag rule in the area of reproductive and sexual rights.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the events surrounding ryanair show the dark side of the aggressive business practices of the low-cost airline. the price for this "greed is greed" mentality will be paid in this case by 700 000 passengers who will be affected by cancellations. i have serious doubts that ryanair will comply with its obligation to provide information on passenger rights. at the same time, the cancellation of flights means massive income losses for the cabin crew. if the planes stay on the ground, there's no money. the management is talking about problems with the vacation planning. but the fact is that the crew and the pilots are fed up with zero-hour contracts and precarious employment. ryanair and all other low-cost airlines must finally adopt social dialogue and fair employment relations in their daily operations.
the commission has already done so. i see it as our duty to do two essential things: one is to protect the environment and health, and the other is to respect our legal principles. what you've presented to us does not meet either of those criteria. we are not meeting the highest possible level of protection of health, and we are not meeting the highest possible level of protection of the environment, but we are also contradicting our legal principles. because, contrary to what you have emphasized in your comments, that the commission has not exceeded its powers, this house and also the legal service of the parliament clearly believe that you have done exactly that, namely that this exception has so substantially changed the basic act that it is not within your competence. the factual and technical arguments against your proposal have been heard very clearly today. we expect you to send us an amended proposal as soon as possible, which does not contain this derogation. we do not feel responsible for the fact that it took almost eight years to put something forward. i am convinced that if this one paragraph, which is the one we are talking about here, namely this derogation, is removed, we will very quickly find something that is in line with the rule of law and also the best protection for health and the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we must not forget that we are here in the midst of the main and key debate and debate on the forthcoming council meeting. the agenda does not include the subject which should really move europe the most: the referendum in catalonia. i do not want to comment on the constitutional aspect of this because it would be far too complex and there is not enough time for that. but if in the heart of europe 900 people are prevented from making a declaration of will by rubber batons and rubber bullets, then i say: there is a fire on the roof, and urgent action is needed. it is not right that the european parliament, which is always the first to condemn something, to express its opinion on something, should not speak here and want to postpone a debate on this subject until this afternoon! the council's agenda is, however, the subject of turkey. just because erdoğan now says he doesn't want to be in the european union anymore, is still not enough reason for you to finally stop this debate. we have wasted over five billion in turning them towards turkey in the face of a catastrophic situation in the field of human rights and democracy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when the heads of state or government discuss migration and refugees again, it is a regular déjà vu: loudly trumpeted resolutions to make things better now, big plans and expectations. the progress is small, of course. on the positive side, perhaps, we should finally be taking resettlement seriously. what's alarming is that we've obviously learned nothing. the un announced yesterday that it would cut food rations in kenyan refugee camps by 30%. i can't believe this. no one will notice until it's too late. i would like to remind you of what mrs merkel said at one of these summits on 25 september 2015, at the height of the refugee crisis: we have not all seen that international programmes are not sufficiently funded, that people in refugee camps are starving, that food rations are being reduced. this time we might see it!
mr president, mr commission vice-president timmermans, representative of the council! the issue of migration is a very important one. i think it is good that it is back on the council's agenda next time. what we need is finally legal access to the european union, for example through embassy asylum and solidarity within the member states. but i would also like to say that it is totally unacceptable that the brutal action of the spanish police in catalonia last weekend is not even on the agenda for the next council. i'll change to spanish now. after the spanish government's refusal to speak and the brutal police action last sunday, i ask you to ask the commission to offer mediation to the catalan and madrid governments, to open a dialogue, to return to the table to speak. i ask the members of the ppe group, the european people's party, in particular, to say that this is no longer an internal matter for spain: within the european union there are no internal affairs; within the european union this does not work. we are all europeans. there must be dialogue and a practical solution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i expect the heads of state and government to talk about more than just the positive aspects of digitisation. the digital europe must be discussed in the same breath as the social europe. the digital single market without minimum social standards is absurd. so we cannot just talk about simplifying things for businesses and boosting the digital single market when there is already digital social dumping happening across europe at the click of a mouse. because whether you are an uber driver, a food-shop supplier or a factory worker, fair wages, labour protection and trade union rights must apply to all working people in europe. when we talk about digitization, i also expect that we will talk about how we can get the internet companies facebook, google and co. to finally pay their taxes.
in writing. dialogue instead of hardened fronts! there is no doubt that the referendum on independence held in catalonia on sunday had no legal basis and that the result cannot therefore be legally binding. but there is no doubt that the violent reaction of the conservative spanish government was disproportionate. even if the vote was illegal, it cannot be answered with violence. the clashes between the police and the civilian population could have been prevented by early talks. the rule of law is a very important asset, and this applies to both sides. it is critical that the catalan authorities call their citizens to the polls despite the negative judicial decisions of the spanish constitutional court and catalan courts. the commission has also been criticized for the inaction of the spanish central government for months. the conflict between madrid and barcelona is not new, but that is precisely why it can only be resolved politically and not by police action. the european union must be the mediator here, and both sides should be striving to do so. the catalans also have different views. this too must be dealt with. the only way to find a solution is through legal and political dialogue. both sides must be prepared to do so.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is a matter of course that the fiscal compact will be transposed into union law. just as the maastricht treaty stated that the euro is the currency of all the member states of the european union that meet the criteria, the intergovernmental fiscal compact states that its provisions should be transposed into the european treaties as soon as possible. i would like to say that we should have a general clause adopted by the council, that all european laws should be drawn up and adopted on the basis of union law and thus with the participation of the european parliament. all the measures for the further development of monetary union and economic and social union, and for the creation of a banking, capital markets, fiscal and investment union must be based on union law. because only then will they be given democratic legitimacy by this house of commons. for our single currency to work, we need sound public budgets, market discipline and clear guidelines for macroeconomic and budgetary surveillance. the stability and growth pact must therefore be less complex, but more binding and effective. we need tougher and more effective sanctions against those who do not comply with the joint decision. the stages of economic and monetary union, the so-called pierre-werner plan of 1970, already stated that all the measures could be achieved within a decade if there was sufficient political will on the part of the member states. the political will is what counts, no more and no less.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have to look at what happened in response to the crisis: social standards have been eroded, trade union rights have been abolished not only in greece, and this has been made possible by an escape from european law. the fiscal pact and the bailouts were built around the treaties, bypassing democratic safeguards of european law. it is therefore clear that we must make european economic policy more democratic. we must ensure democratic control in the european parliament. but if we are to have a sustainable european economic policy, we need above all one thing: a break with the neoliberal austerity policy - on the backs of the working people, on the backs of the weak. public investment in the future, such as in education, must be excluded from the strict rules of the stability pact.
mr president, mr president of the court of auditors, ladies and gentlemen! the court of auditors has sent us a comprehensive report on its activities, as it does every year. it's more comprehensive than exciting. as the shadow rapporteur on the budget of this house, i found the ten pages devoted to the chapter on administration to be extremely meagre, especially when one looks at the overall report of 316 pages. of course, the 0.2% error rate is a great thing, even compared to the overall error rate, which is 3.1%, as we have heard. nevertheless, the european parliament is entitled to an amount of eur 1.9 billion to cover the costs. i would go into more detail, but unfortunately this annual report does not provide me with the basis for further discussion. i find it regrettable, or perhaps a little questionable, that the hearing with mr klaus welle is likely to provide us with more information than this report. if the one being controlled is the main source of information, i think something is not quite right. there are some questions that remain open to me. i would like to mention just a few: what about the chauffeur service? what are we doing in the translation department? what's the status on building security? how do we deal with the fragmented administration of parliament? and one of the most important questions is: will there ever be only one seat for the european parliament?
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and all those who have worked on it. we lose about 500 million euros of public money every year because of corruption and fraud. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the european public prosecutor's office, as a genuine cross-border law enforcement agency with direct investigative powers in the member states involved, is a huge success a huge success for the european union and for all member states that benefit from it. when i wrote the juri opinion in the last parliamentary term, there were so many doubts - member states, members of parliament - and it is all the better that it is working now. but one thing is important, especially in view of the revision of the multiannual financial framework: all member states using eu funds should take a nose job and join the eu's corruption prosecutor. the member states which receive the largest shares of eu funds must not be allowed to evade justice in this case. my predecessor from hungary spoke of his country, he argued the opposite. i would like to call specifically on poland and hungary to join this instrument. if they don't, we should consider other enhanced controls and access rights. because this instrument is something great, and i can only invite everyone to join in.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, in some eu member states detention conditions fail to comply with international law and human rights standards, especially those included in the european convention on human rights and the case law of the european court of human rights. i welcome that this resolution is addressing the main problems prisons in the eu face such as overpopulation, radicalisation of prisoners, outdated facilities, lack of medical care, violence, lack of resources, poor staff levels and violations of fundamental rights of prisoners. member states should exchange best practices and follow recommendations, especially concerning the modernisation of prisons and the development of educational and practical skills to facilitate reintegration. in addition, special attention should be paid to vulnerable, elderly and disabled prisoners and the specific needs of women as well as children. in this regard, it is vital to improve the training of prison staff also with the aim of countering radicalisation in prisons. as a member of the committee on women’s rights, i would like to address the importance of hygiene standards within prisons and the provision of health services such as pre- and post-natal care. in this regard, it is important to highlight that the automatic separation of a mother from her child creates an additional penalty and can cause major emotional disturbances. therefore, i call on the member states to enable mothers to stay with their children as long as possible by providing adequate spaces for breastfeeding and extending visiting and telephone time between children and their parents.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to ask mr bendtsen about the social situation of prisoners. if a romanian is imprisoned in denmark, he obviously has language problems and will not have the opportunity to reintegrate into society in prison either. would it not be a human right for a romanian to have the right to go back to a romanian prison, because of course there the communication could be much better and the re-socialization in that sense too?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the quality of a civilization is also measured, above all, by the appearance of its prisons, the proportion of its population that is incarcerated, whether prisons are designed to rehabilitate or merely serve a sense of revenge, and above all, whether human rights are respected in such extreme conditions. the debate on this successful report today is therefore very important, and only if prisons develop in this direction will we become an area of freedom, security and justice. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the public interest must be at the heart of this, and it is in the public interest that people are not simply locked up, but that they are shown a way back. only then will we get what we all want: more security.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. if we look back at the council debate on 19 october and see that migration was again one of the dominant issues, we can only say that there is a lack of determination, a lack of enforcement and a lack of autonomy, because once again we are counting on turkey, knowing that turkey is not a reliable partner. it would be much wiser to finally also pursue the long-standing plans to look for care in the regions themselves. it came from germany, from the minister of the interior, mr schily, from the minister of the interior, mr de maizière, and the commission considered finding places of care in the regions themselves. you don't do that. if we look at libya, for example, where more help is needed, we look at lebanon, where more help was needed. let us see if we can make agreements with tunisia, with algeria, with morocco, to keep people in the region and not to allow a policy of exodus from africa to europe. secondly, turkey, which was also discussed. 640 million in pre-accession aid; i think it will be over four or four and a half billion euros by 2020, although erdoğan himself says he does not want to be in the eu anymore and here too the call to break off the negotiations is getting stronger. therefore, please heed the call to suspend the european union's negotiations with turkey on membership of the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the last summit will not go down in history. once again, it is true that on big issues, where the self-actors are in the spotlight as with migration nothing goes further. the four-page conclusions are disappointing: nothing more than a list of futile efforts, no prospects for the future and no sensitivity to the events. the word "refugees" is not mentioned once. the result is quite different for questions on the explanations for the digital europe, where the focus is on the practical work. it sets out concrete steps and outlines perspectives, such as the question of fair taxation of it companies or cybersecurity. this result-oriented pragmatism is what gets us there. it would be good if less actionism and more pragmatism prevailed in the spectacular questions as well.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i should like to take up what mr verhofstadt, mr rangel and mr fleckenstein have said. the special summit you mentioned for february, mr president tusk. if you are going to hold a special summit on this issue, then you should hold one on strengthening european democracy. we must talk about the future of european democracy. we need to strengthen the separation of powers. one problem with the separation of powers is that in the council governments are executive on the one hand and legislative on the other, that unanimity and intergovernmentalism weaken national parliaments and the european parliament. and so we need to talk about how we can work together to strengthen the institutions to meet our democratic obligations. the question of the african fund, the question of external border protection, the question of migration policy are also connected with the fact that they are primarily national competence, but we have a common european problem. so yes to a special summit on the future of european democracy and a discussion on what we have to change in the council so that the european union is more capable of acting in the interaction of the institutions and can actually implement the decisions quickly. i would therefore like to say that we do not only need money for africa, we need a common foreign, security, defence, development and investment policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i ask you to take care of that.
in writing. we are discussing the last important work programme of this parliamentary term. and the eu citizens expect one thing above all: that we finally get to work! europe will be social or it will not be. the heads of the social pillar must be filled with concrete legislative proposals, because europe needs more than a non-binding social servant. these include a framework directive on decent working conditions, basic protection for children in poverty, the integration of social policy in the european semester and the establishment of minimum european standards. the european labour authority is an important step in this direction! we must also force the multinationals to pay their taxes. the conclusions of the panama committee of inquiry must be seen as a roadmap for the commission. the withdrawal of the european i-ag from the work programme is a great success. it was only through the pressure of us social democrats that we were able to build up resistance in the european parliament and thus bring the commission to its senses. president juncker has warned us that there must be no second-class citizens in europe. so let's get to work, so we can make good on the promise of prosperity for all!
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think it is important for all of us that the budget of the european parliament should also set priorities. we 'll start with this: the council has asked for a reduction of 1% per year in posts, and we will of course respect this reduction, and there will be internal changes. but i believe that this objective is not only a european objective, of course, but it would also be very gratifying if the finance ministers at home in their own countries would implement the 1% reduction in posts to show that they are really serious about this statement. we are also focusing on preparing the next european parliament elections in 2019. we want to protect democracy in europe. we do not want forces that are against democracy and invest only in the military to weaken europe's soft power here. we also want to make our administration much more efficient, which means that we have pushed the konrad adenauer project in luxembourg accordingly. we want to implement the digitisation of processes and the continued introduction of the irish language in a consistent manner and also to review the studies on brexit and the promotion of green transport accordingly. there is also a lot of work to be done in the parliamentary budget for members. in recent years, a great deal of bureaucracy has been built up in this house, with many checks and audits. this requires additional massive activity on the part of the members of parliament. the same is true of the officials in parliament. we are therefore in favour of returning to the flat-rate system, of paying flat-rate fares. it's efficient, it's cost-effective and it's the best option for the taxpayer. the flat-rate rates are also a matter of course for us in the member states. we do not want to take away anyone's flat-rate, we want to force this system. the commission has already proposed that the european external action service should be paid for its internships. i think that is right, but we must also supplement this budget line so that we can give young people the chance to learn about the european service and to work for the added value of europe.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not going to tell you. my question is: we have decided here in parliament that interns must be paid, so we want to abolish unpaid internships. now we in the foreign service have planned to increase that sum. do you think it's justified to pay interns in this field?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the 2018 financial year shall finance union actions that are primarily aimed at sustainable growth and employment in economic and social terms. this will be achieved by increasing investment in education, research and development, infrastructure and small and mediumsized enterprises. i would like to emphasize two points which are the subject of parliament's draft report. these are the increase in funding for the youth employment initiative from eur 366,7 million to a total of eur 600 million and the reinstatement of the connecting europe facility and horizon 2020 budgets. these two programmes were reduced in favour of the efsi guarantee fund allocation; for horizon 2020 alone, the council proposal provided for cuts of eur 500 million in commitments and eur 120 million in payments, despite the current annual r & d deficit of eur 150 billion in europe and the fact that 83% of projects funded under horizon 2020 would not have been possible without eu support. the commission is also proposing to increase the amount of funding for other programmes that create growth and jobs. these are erasmus+ with a plus of 32 million, cosme with a plus of 22.5 million and the recs. the provision of financial support to smes is also essential. this is the most important driver of growth and employment in europe. the corresponding budget lines will also be used to develop the digital infrastructure and to successfully implement the wifi4europe project.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to say that we have over 1 800 amendments for tomorrow's budget and over 120 roll call votes, one of which costs the house on average 400 euros. i find that scandalous. i do not think we should vote on this. i would ask that the budgetary procedure as it is currently under way be reconsidered. this is totally unacceptable to the taxpayers.
in writing. freedom of expression and of the press are among the most important foundations of a democracy. the fact that freedom of expression can be deadly was brought home to us last week by the brutal murder of investigative journalist and blogger daphne caruana galizia in malta, who was involved in the panama papers investigation. this sad event once again demonstrates that journalists, bloggers and all those who have the courage to expose covert schemes in the public interest deserve special protection through appropriate laws. as a former journalist, i am particularly concerned to point this out. in the european parliament we social democrats voted for greater protection for whistleblowers. whistleblowers help to expose corruption and shady dealings. the fact that they are often prosecuted for this, that their jobs, their freedom and sometimes even their lives are at stake, cannot happen. the position of the ppe, which is concerned at the memorial event here in parliament but not in favour of protecting whistleblowers, is all the more incomprehensible. let us all stand up for freedom of expression and ensure that the protection of journalists and all those who expose abuses is strengthened in the eu.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank you, commissioner, for your work on the posting directive, but also, of course, on the fight against carcinogens. i would also like to thank in particular marita ulvskog for her work on this important report. the winners this week are clearly the workers. cancer - it cannot be repeated often enough - is the most common cause of death in work-related deaths in europe. every dead man is one too many. these deaths can and must be avoided. the work done here has now made a start. the commission is proposing to introduce mandatory workplace limit values for 50 carcinogens instead of the current five. and i am of course also glad that we can extend the legal framework of the directive to include substances that impair fertility. two to three million workers are exposed to toxic substances, and the legal protection has been more bad than good. that will change in the future.
the commission has already done so. i would also like to begin by thanking all the negotiators, because i think that the package we have on the table is one of which we can be very proud. we have done a lot in recent years to improve the health of europeans. i am thinking here of the tobacco directive, but i am also thinking of the limitation of emissions from motor vehicles. because all of this has helped to make lung cancer, in particular, an active area of the fight. and when we talk today about the additional costs that could be imposed on companies by the implementation of this amended directive, we cannot ignore the costs of non-commercialisation. because not to act would not only bring further great human suffering to the european union, but it would also put a heavy burden on our health and, above all, our sickness systems, and this is also to the detriment of entrepreneurs, this is to the detriment of the eu's location. that means that we have done a lot for the people here, but we have also done a lot for the european economic centre.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not we are having a very important debate today. roma and sinti are the largest ethnic minority in europe 20 million live in all member states. so they are the only pan-european minority. many member states have fewer inhabitants. the roma have been discriminated against for many generations. they were subjected to a cruel holocaust during the nazi era, which is much too little talked about. europe has a political obligation to this ethnic group, not least because of this. the charter of fundamental rights in particular obliges us to oppose all forms of discrimination and humiliation. the report by soraya post is a very important contribution because it takes a holistic approach and places the task of roma integration at the top of the list of fundamental rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is about an inclusive approach that treats roma as an important and equal part of the population without discrimination. it is therefore also reprehensible to play the roma against the so-called indigenous poor. the needy are all those who need help, whether in accessing the labour market, in education or in finding housing. the same principles apply to all. soraya post is to be thanked for taking this approach and for representing it with verve. the progress of a country's civilisation can be seen in how it treats its roma population, and there is still much to be done. we must also fight anti-gypsyism.
member of the commission. – madam president, our debate today, ahead of the vote, is inevitably on an important priority, for, as we all know, it is linked to schengen. preserving and strengthening schengen is one of the commission’s – and my personal – priorities. schengen is a great achievement of european integration. as mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra said – and as i have repeatedly said many times in this chamber – we need a unified schengen, which should include bulgaria and romania and, soon, croatia too. in order to ensure that the schengen area of free movement is sustainable and secure, it is essential that we manage, protect and secure our external borders effectively and that we have full knowledge of who is coming in. it is in this spirit that we have proposed the entry/exit system. its overall objectives are to improve the management of external borders, to prevent irregular migration and to facilitate the management of migration flows. it will enhance cooperation and facilitate information exchange between our member states. i would like to express my thanks to mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra and the shadow rapporteurs for their hard work and for the agreement reached with the council. this new instrument will bring several urgently needed improvements. first of all, it will enable us to monitor better the rules on short stays. the entry/exit system will calculate the duration of third country nationals’ authorisation for short stays in the european union. it will alert border officials if a third country national is about to exceed 90 days in any 100-day period – for example, if someone makes several trips to the european union. the entry/exit system will also check that the duration of the stay corresponds to the visa issued. second, the entry/exit system will reduce the time needed to cross the border and will reduce the workload of border guards. the entry/exit system will allow member states to automate most data and information—capturing steps as well as data verifications. visitors to the european union will benefit from process accelerators and self-service systems. for the border guards it will mean more time to focus on the most important parts of the border-check assessments. that is also why the schengen borders code had to be amended. in addition, member states may also create national facilitation programmes on a voluntary basis to further facilitate border crossings of pre—vetted frequent travellers. the compromise proposed describes the conditions these programmes must meet. third, as the entry/exit system will record travel document identity data, including biometrics, this will improve the detection of document and identity fraud and therefore increase security. fourth, this system will support the competent authorities in combating terrorism and serious crimes. when necessary, these authorities will be able to access data in the system if all strict conditions are met. lastly, the provisions on data protection are aligned to the new data protection framework and to the rulings of the court of justice. the current text includes all the necessary data protection safeguards. the coming into force of the legislation will be timely, so we can rapidly start to develop the system and get it up and running by 2020 at the latest. i am looking forward to the debate and i thank the honourable members for their continued constructive shaping of european legislation in the area of border management.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, agustín díaz de mera garcía consuegra, for his open and very cooperative attitude. he was always seeking the broadest majority, and he defended parliament’s mandate in an impeccable manner. thanks to our common work, we improved the text proposed by the commission, making a clear distinction between bona fide travellers and over-stayers and lowered the data retention period for bona fide travellers. the entry/exit system is an important and truly european project aimed at strengthening security at our borders and ensuring systematic and reliable identification of over—stayers. at the same time, it is reinforcing internal security and strengthening the fight against terrorism and serious crime. my group welcomes the text as agreed in the interinstitutional negotiations and will vote in favour of it in plenary. however – and this is my personal opinion – this legislation has a big impact on the fundamental rights of third—country nationals travelling to europe, especially when it comes to the extensive data retention period. i believe that we should be very careful when designing a system with such a broad scope. we, as legislators, should make sure that the fundamental rights acquis is respected without relying on the ex—post check of the court of justice, which i believe will come back negative in this case.
i have to say, madam president, the protection of external borders is one of the issues that people are rightly concerned about. the reason why so much has not worked so far is also linked to national narrow-mindedness. it is therefore right and timely to reach a common entry/exit. this is a necessary step, and we are happy to go along with it. but there are also legitimate doubts. often we tend to delegate responsibility to big data, hoping that everything will automatically take care of itself. this is a mistake. but it is also the protection of fundamental rights that is a cause for concern. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but the question remains whether, following the ecj's canada-pna judgment, we should not reduce the retention periods, specifically to 181 days.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it's an improvement on the status quo for the first time. because what is the status quo? the status quo is actually total chaos, and what is the nature of a state? the very nature of a state is that it protects its borders and at the same time controls who enters and who leaves the country. it's a logical thing to do. to the greens: you can continue your policy as you have done, using the same words over and over again: incitement, panic and fear. i think you will then suffer the fate of the austrian greens, who were thrown out of parliament in the last national elections. but in this sense, we have seen that in the refugee crisis, millions of people have come to europe, who were not registered anywhere, who were not controlled by anyone, and who are now in the country and in europe. so this system is a necessary step. we are only warning that it must not lead to excessive control of eu citizens.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are voting on a great step for europe. the rapporteur of the european people's party has transformed a very good commission proposal into an effective instrument which, on the one hand, uses modern technology to combat illegal entry into europe and thus creates more security at the eu's external borders, while at the same time offering travellers from third countries - especially tourists and business people - much easier and faster border controls. we have state-of-the-art electronic systems to deal with those who want to enter legally but then stay longer illegally and do not leave the eu. all relevant databases shall be networked and shall immediately report irregular events and observations of irregular status to border control. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market. my request, in the interests of the security needs of our citizens, is that this system be used even more efficiently and also for the detection of serious crime and the fight against terrorism. fingerprints and biometrics secured at a murder scene should be matched in real time. another reminder to the left-wing green dreamers in this house with a special phobia of data: trust the democratic way we have designed europe to work! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. yes, i just recognize a real - as i said earlier - phobia, a manic fear of data processing, which in our legal system has no criminal - as you assume - dimensions. and the political situation is this: you lose elections all the time, which makes you particularly vulnerable to particular aggressiveness. let us remain as usual in this parliament be objective and work on common solutions for the citizens of europe!
member of the commission. – madam president, this chamber has already debated the issue of violence and harassment against women on many occasions. we on the commission side have highlighted the seriousness of the problems with statistics and studies. we know that at least one in every three women has been a victim of some sort of physical or sexual violence. but these statistics do not tell enough personal stories, and the reason we are debating this today is because of the global ‘me too’ movement. real stories have exploded in social media and other communication forums during recent weeks, stories that have been kept locked in in the memories and the hearts and minds of millions of women across the world, who have been suffering, who have been silently trying to forget or cope with this or ignore the pain. women who have been in some form or other harassed by their boss, by their colleague, by their teacher, their neighbour or a stranger in the street. these stories shout to us. it is a feminist outcry from all across the world from women who say: ‘enough! this is enough! we refuse to be silent, we refuse to accept this.’ this is an impressive movement, and we can only listen to those stories and try to reach from the stories to some action. we must continue to work towards eradicating this problem. workplaces all over the world, including in the european union and eu institutions must look at how we can address this. are we doing enough? are there enough tools to listen to their signals, to catch those stories, to act in an appropriate way? this is work that needs to be done by men and women together. since the creation of the daphne funding programme in the 1990s, the eu has supported the work of ngos at grassroots level and of national local authorities, because this debate is much broader. we need to empower volunteers and professionals to work with victims and perpetrators when it comes to sexual violence. local actors are best placed to tackle the problem on the ground. without them, victims would be all alone. we set aside eur 6 million last year and have set aside eur 12.7 million this year, and projects across the eu have been a lifeline for many organisations who would otherwise not be able to do their work. in september, in partnership with the united nations, the eu launched a major spotlight initiative, with an initial investment of half a billion euros, to eliminate all kinds of violence against women and girls around the world. thanks to the budget that you have advocated, we will come up with an eu survey on gender-based violence, to be carried out by national statistics institutes and led and coordinated by eurostat. together, we have dedicated this year to focused actions to combat violence against women. many things happened this year and are still happening. the commission, for example, launched a campaign which is engaging and supporting professionals, member states and ngos in combating the problem. under that campaign, we set aside eur 4 million for national campaigns and selected 10 different national projects that are now kicking off. to give an example, we are funding a campaign in association with the italian football league, focused on passing the message to football fans that violence against women and girls is not acceptable. from a regulatory perspective, as you know, the eu’s accession to the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence (istanbul convention) is an important step forward. this convention brings binding rules on a wide aspect of the types of violence, including sexual harassment and abuse. sexual harassment is already sanctioned in eu legislation, but victims – as we have seen lately – do not come forward or cases are not reported or not brought to court. and here we must look at how we can work with national equality bodies to address this problem, so that we contribute, in time, to the support given to those victims. the model structures of the istanbul convention and the eu victims directive, with a strong focus on victim support and on the training of police, can make a difference here. we need to keep an eye on implementation, and that is why, under the victims’ rights directive, we have already launched an infringement case for non-transposition of this directive. we are continuing our compliance check and looking at how the directive is actually applied on the ground in member states. today you have raised a broad problem that has got legitimate attention through the recent ‘me too’ movement. here we need to go forward, hand-in-hand, we need to work – everybody, especially men – to say no to harassment, no to violence against women. so thank you very much for putting this on the agenda today.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in recent days, social media has been all about sexual harassment in the workplace, as thousands of brave women have shared their experiences and highlighted the widespread nature of the problem. nevertheless, i was surprised that this fact was perceived by the public as something new and surprising. suddenly, everyone is shocked and deplores the behaviour that has always existed and has affected the lives of many women. social media campaigns alone are not enough. what needs to change is our relationship with power and ultimately the power structure itself and the awareness that sexual assault is an abuse of a position of power. to all men, sexual violence is not an expression of strength, but of weakness. sexist and discriminatory behaviour must never be tolerated anywhere. we need to go from a hashtag metoo to a hashtag notme.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as has been mentioned several times here, the best way to combat uncontrolled and illegal immigration is to have a system that allows legal migration while coordinating the flows of refugees that must be separated from it. in the debate, these two different phenomena are constantly and unfortunately far too often mixed up. the reform of the dublin convention is leading to a common european asylum policy. but what is still absolutely necessary is a common european migration policy that deserves the name. only if we move further in this direction can we end human smuggling, save lives and reap the economic benefits that coordinated and controlled immigration brings to our economies. the european parliament is ready to do so. and i appeal here and now to the governments and also to the presidency of the council to take the necessary steps and to agree with the european parliament and the european commission on a european migration system. that is what the people expect of the european union and of all of us.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the hökmark report comes at the right time. we have moderate growth in all member states, unemployment is falling consistently, and we have the expectation and hope that public deficits in the euro area will also continue to decline. but there is still a lot of untapped potential, and we have a lot of room to grow, because the member states have still only implemented two thirds of their country-specific recommendations. we know that more structural reforms and more private and public investment would mean at least 1% higher growth. we know from the monti report that completing the internal market means at least 3% more growth if we do only what we have already decided and what we have set out to do. i therefore believe that the report is putting its finger on the right wounds and is addressing the right challenges and needs for action, because the european semester gives the commission the opportunity to put its finger on the wounds, but the contradiction between data and objectives is becoming more and more visible. the european semester is not a substitute for further deepening monetary union on the basis of community law into economic union. it is not a substitute for the creation of a european minister for economic and financial affairs. it does not replace the fact that we are making the esm into a european monetary fund under community law. if we implement the report in a complementary way, we will contribute to deepening economic and monetary union and to its enlargement for more growth and employment.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the new securitisation rules are an important step towards the creation of a european capital markets union, good news for the financial and economic centre of europe and a success for the european parliament. by converting receivables into tradable securities, securitisation spreads risks so that they are borne by those best placed to do so. it creates new investment opportunities and improves lending to households and businesses. the regulation had two things to reconcile: on the one hand, we want to draw an important lesson from the financial crisis and ensure financial stability, and on the other hand, we want to revive the european market and address the 42% decline in emissions compared to the pre-crisis level. we have achieved the objectives for which the european parliament has worked so hard from the beginning, and i should like to thank mr tang and the other members of the committee very warmly. we are creating simple, transparent and uniform rules a safe vehicle to help finance the real economy and to restore confidence in the european securitisation market, both between banks and other financial instruments. the two jointly negotiated acts - i am the rapporteur and the epp rapporteur - go hand in hand to achieve these objectives. if we think of it as a car, then the new framework for all securitisations would be the body and the revision of the equity regulation as its engine. to keep the engine running, we as parliament have ensured that we encourage the spending of high-quality products by applying a risk-based capital treatment to sts securitisations, that we allow a departure from basel in the hierarchy of approaches under certain conditions to take account of european specificities, that we increase incentives for sme securitisations and that we prohibit re-securitisations so that credit risks can no longer be hidden from investors. for a robust body, we have set the risk margin at 5% in line with global standards, created a securitisation register to increase transparency, ensured the implementation of auto securitisations and enforced comprehensive monitoring of the securitisation market. with this legislative package embodied in body and engine we are showing that we are serious about collectively introducing clearer, more transparent and stricter rules and regaining trust in the market so that poison can become medicine and we are mobilising up to €150 billion of additional funding for the european economy, which we urgently need alongside reforms to make growth and jobs in europe a lasting achievement again.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission! the us treasury secretary has recently made a number of proposals for the reform of the us capital market, including those on securitisation. he is concerned that the post-crisis reforms put securitisations at a disadvantage compared to other more traditional forms of financing, such as bank deposits. it is also concerned that loan amounts must be secured when they are securitised and bundled rather than when they appear individually in bank balance sheets. europe is going in a different direction here. in september 2015, the commission published for the first time the proposal on sts securitisations, i.e. securitisations that are simple, transparent and standardised. the european parliament, the council and the commission have now agreed on the guidelines for a new securitisation regulation, which consists of two sets of rules which are being discussed today. these are the securitisation regulation the criteria for all securitisations, in particular sts securitisations, the due diligence and risk shield requirements and secondly the adjustments to the capital requirements regulation (crr) to implement the revised basel rules for institutions. for banks, the transition to the basel ii regime will result in an increase in risk weights, but these will be reduced in the future if they meet the sts criteria. in other words, the sts criteria provide incentives to make the european capital market safer and more robust.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. it's almost all said. but the debate has shown one thing: that we are able to have a serious debate with each other, even though this is such a complex subject. that is parliamentarism. we must take seriously the concerns and fears, the opportunities and hopes, and look together for solutions, and we have done that together here. i would like to take up the second point. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. we need the combination of the different measures, and we need above all the implementation of these measures. i do not want to give rise to the hope that these rules alone will solve the problem we have and will have drawn all the lessons from the crisis. we've managed to get a small mosaic stone. thirdly, the debate has clearly shown the causes of the crisis, the risks of securitisation on the one hand and the opportunities on the other. we have tried to minimise the risks, to seize the opportunity and to regain trust through these arrangements. we hope that we have succeeded with this package, and we will see that in the evaluation. but good work has been done and i ask the house to give its consent to these two reports tomorrow as an important contribution to the creation of a capital markets union which must be developed further.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. australia and new zealand are highly developed countries that share our values. that is why it must be possible for us to conclude a fair, balanced agreement at a high level with high standards. the negotiations must be transparent, because everyone - the european parliament, the national parliaments and the public - has a right to be fully informed. i 'm optimistic . as the commissioner has already said, the draft mandates have been published for the first time. i would also appeal to the council to comply with this and to publish the negotiating mandates when they have been adopted. the european parliament must also be further strengthened and involved in the negotiation process, from the adoption of the mandate to the conclusion of the negotiations. a strong, enforceable sustainability chapter, which protects workers, consumers and the environment, is also a fundamental pillar of trade policy. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use. social, labour and environmental standards must be more enforceable. let us seize the opportunity to conclude a model agreement with australia and new zealand, from which all citizens will benefit equally. these agreements could be a model for future agreements, when negotiations are no longer conducted behind closed doors but are transparent and the issue of sustainability is given the same importance as tariff reduction.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the essential democratic control function of the european parliament and national parliaments in the design of trade agreements cannot be circumvented under the guise that the negotiating mandate only concerns eu competences. the experience of ttip, ceta and tisa shows that the interests of european citizens are not taken into account in the negotiation of trade agreements and that we as meps are excluded from the negotiations. we greens therefore call for an interinstitutional agreement to ensure that the european parliament becomes a co-legislator in future free trade agreements and can actively represent the interests of citizens. the national parliaments must also be able to express their views on the negotiating mandate before the council gives the mandate to the commission. we greens want a fair and just system for the world economy, not one dictated by big corporations and profit maximisation. we want public services to be excluded from the negotiating mandate, and we want to protect the environment, social and consumer standards, because they are not barriers to trade, they are important achievements for the citizens of europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the breakdown of the trans-pacific partnership negotiations by trump in january this year naturally creates a trade policy niche for the union, and it should of course be exploited. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. however, i have noticed some phrasing in this mandate which leaves a lot of room for interpretation. for example, it is stated that enforceable commitments in the field of energy but also of state-owned enterprises are important as such, and this leaves a lot of open, of course. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is therefore a lot of hope, but also a bitter taste and a vague hope that some critical points can be negotiated here in transparent negotiations, and that would of course be very, very important, especially for our citizens and for future negotiations.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. legislation is one side of the coin. the other side of the coin, which is just as important, is of course application and control. the european commission is the guardian of the treaties and therefore has the power to decide on both sides of the coin. the commission's control over the application of eu law is therefore becoming more important every year. it is important that we take care to preserve our common acquis and ensure its uniform application and implementation. in addition to the important issues of application in the area of asylum and migration, i would like to focus on the economic policy component. there are now member states which refuse to apply eu law in some areas, or at least water it down, and they do so systematically. on the one hand, where transposition into national law is concerned. i would like to highlight austria as a bad example of environmental liability, which we will discuss in the next debate. on the other hand, in the enforcement of eu law - where the functioning of the internal market depends on crossborder cooperation between authorities, where states often have no interest of their own - some member states systematically ignore the law. i would like to mention one specific example, hungary. the austrian administrative court has recently found that, in the case of hungary, despite eu rules ensuring effective prosecution and enforcement between member states, workers are systematically denied legal aid when posted. it is therefore a dispute concerning the posting of workers. this is of course a particularly sensitive case, and that is why i am trying to ensure that both countries actually apply eu law accordingly, even in these sensitive cases.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the reality is that there is still a lot of work to be done to ensure that this directive is properly implemented. however, efforts should also be made to extend the scope of environmental liability. why isn't air pollution included in the scope? the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat air pollution, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat it. i would like to mention a few cases that have been reported in the media - bad cases that are now in the papers at home: combustible waste deposited in a residential area in budapest, marine pollution off harku in estonia, pesticide pollution of groundwater in korneuburg in austria and fish deaths in mürz in styria after the commissioning of a power plant. these are all cases that would be avoided if environmental responsibility were properly implemented. it is about prevention, rehabilitation and, finally, always about the question: who pays for the damage to the habitat of all of us? the sad reality is that many member states are lax and inadequate in their implementation, and it is the general public who suffer the damage, who have to pay for the damage, and it is not the polluters who are held responsible. so it is a question of establishing justice in the question of who is to be asked to pay for the damage. but it is also about holding the big industrial polluters who are damaging our environment to account. the polluter pays principle is the only logically fair thing i can think of. i would therefore ask you, mr commissioner, to continue to intervene where member states do not or only poorly implement the rules, and, of course, to look, on the basis of this excellent report by our rapporteur, to revise the rules where they should be more ambitious.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not condolence letters are good, but help is better. it concerns a region on both sides of the border: iraq and iran. with an earthquake of 7.3 on the richter scale, both regions are affected. the iranian side has suffered about 340 deaths and 4 000 injuries. the cities of erbil, halabdha and duhok on the kurdish side of iraq are also heavily affected. i think the scale of the disaster is not known and i think we should talk about the form in which the union should intervene on both sides. i think it would be a good way for the union to act here, not only in a humanitarian way but also in a proper diplomatic mediating role. because this region is not very stable anyway, and this particular earthquake can contribute to further destabilization. the union can make a major contribution and help in this emergency situation.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to ask mr bogovič: the statistics are supposed to show us where improvements are possible. we have, of course, a great opportunity in regional development to make better use of research infrastructure, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. do you think that these statistics lead to a better situation?
i have to say, madam president, i would like to congratulate mrs meissner. i'm from vienna, and i grew up looking directly at the danube, at the docks in mexico square, and friends of mine worked on danube ships. i am therefore aware of the harsh working conditions and the importance of ensuring that the jobs you have on board are also future-proof. it is therefore particularly important that young people find the occupation of working on an inland waterway vessel to be equally attractive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the european standards for training and qualifications required to work on board a ship will not only improve the safety of all workers but also that of passengers. it is therefore necessary to ensure a high quality of training for ship's personnel, while at the same time protecting boat's personnel seamen, seamen . i am particularly concerned about the protection of young people. i am therefore grateful that my amendments have been accepted: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of young people are protected.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. freedom of religion is a universal human right, and this includes not only the right to practice one's religion freely but also the right to change one's religion and the right not to belong to any religion. any violation of this principle is a violation of human rights and must be condemned everywhere and in all circumstances, as in the middle east, for example, where in recent years a violation of this principle has occurred in a way that is unique in history, and whose brutality and inhumanity can hardly be surpassed. this is not only true of christians and yazidis, but also of all other groups. now that the self-proclaimed caliphate regime is collapsing, we must do everything we can to create conditions that allow people to return to their ancestral lands, that justice is served to all victims, that criminals are brought to justice, and most importantly, that people can build trust with each other. as utopian as this may sound, it is imperative that we think about reconciliation in this region. perhaps this tragedy we have experienced will also herald a change of consciousness in the region. the principle of "cuius regio, eius religio" is not suitable for the 21st century. and countries like saudi arabia, which like to talk about a new future, talk about modernization, talk about a global role, should think about this. there is still not a single church there, and filipino maids - so it has been reported - are punished if a bible is found in their possession.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. yes, there are alarming examples of christian persecution around the world. according to open doors, in north korea alone, 50,000 to 70,000 christians are being held in camps as traitors, most likely facing death. a few refugee routes lead to china, but even from there, you're deported back to north korea. but also on our own doorstep, on the european doorstep - in turkey - christians are also systematically oppressed. property of christian organizations is expropriated and then placed under the administration of the sunni state religious organization diyanet. but there are also positive things to report, for example, from the kurdish region in northern iraq, where christians who were expelled by isis are being taken in, protected, and even helping to rebuild the destroyed churches. unfortunately - and this must be said - it is a fact that we here like to complain about the persecution of christians, but we are not aware of our christian roots and that the union is doing far too little to protect persecuted christians in the world.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. you're getting off topic. this is about the paradise papers, which is that companies should pay taxes. are you in favour of continuing to allow such tax avoidance constructs in the british virgin islands and other tax havens, yes or no?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the paradise papers are once again exposing the tax avoidance strategies of prominent politicians and multinational corporations, and this time, the list includes very prominent names, from u.s. secretary of state wilbur ross to canadian prime minister queen elizabeth ii to u2 frontman bono, as well as corporations like apple and nike. i would like to refer to a scandinavian study on tax avoidance and inequality based on an hsbc dataset from the swiss leaks, which says that tax evaders with very high capital income evaded tax when the risk of detection was as low as possible, even in countries with high social cohesion and high law-abidingness, such as scandinavia. corporations, on the other hand, do not evade taxes, they optimize their investment through royalties, trademark rights, patent boxes or internal settlement prices - all completely legal - with the aim of minimizing the tax burden. and the eu has responded with two pillars, namely two areas of action: increasing transparency and closing tax loopholes. in both areas, great progress has been made over the last year and a half; more than 100 countries have committed to sharing information on financial accounts. there is a country-specific reporting, there is a catalogue of measures against tax avoidance, and there is the oecd beps action plan. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000. in the wake of swiss leaks, lux leaks, panama papers and paradise papers, many measures have been put in place to combat tax avoidance, reduce inequality and increase tax fairness. and in the eu, these measures are already working, because, with the exception of the british, no europeans were found in the paradise papers.
i have to say, madam president, i share your view, commissioner moscovici. tax optimizers are like vampires, they're afraid of daylight, they're afraid of transparency. so we're bringing light into the darkness and we're advocating for more transparency. i therefore call on the finance ministers to finally end the blockade on public country-by-country reporting. in each country, companies have to pay taxes where they make their profits. this call is addressed in particular to the finance ministers of the united kingdom, malta, luxembourg and also austria. let us take the side of the taxpayers! the commission is also preparing to present a package on company law at the end of november. clear rules, clear rules we need to stop the letterbox companies, this mess of letterbox companies. i therefore urge that in this context, the paradise papers should not be allowed to continue to operate as a system of letterbox companies through cross-border divisions and subsequent mergers.
i have to say, madam president, 'what is going on here in beautiful malta?' you might ask. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. one thing is clear, however: the things we are experiencing in malta are very serious. an investigative journalist is blown up by a car bomb in broad daylight. this is more reminiscent of the netflix series narcos, which is about drug dealer pablo escobar, than of the political reality in the european union. but that is the reality in malta. in addition, new facts and new assumptions are coming to light: drug trafficking and corruption. while there, drug dealers and corrupt politicians are investigated, but never brought to justice. i wonder what's in argen in malta. i think we should make it a priority to bring light into the darkness.
madam president, one does not have to be a journalist, like i was for most of my life, to mourn over daphne caruana galicia. this is a tragedy that concerns us all. journalists in more and more countries live a dangerous life: they are harassed and coerced and are often thrown into prison, or, in countries such as honduras, mexico and russia, they are killed. but in the european union? we did not deem it possible that this could happen here. something is terribly wrong. we know that ms caruana galicia was trying to join the dots with regard to the panama papers and the possible enmeshment of government officials in the affair. since she was murdered before the paradise papers became public, we do not know what else she might have discovered. there have also been other questionable affairs in malta. i am very concerned when i hear that foreigners have been buying maltese passports just like that, a couple of tens of thousands of euros, and the door to the european union becomes wide open. this is unacceptable. daphne caruana galizia must not have died in vain. the circumstances of her murder must be scrutinised until every stone is turned and everything is laid bare. i support the decision by the maltese government to get both europol and the fbi involved in the investigation. the rule of law must not be compromised. and to one side of the house i would also say that as long as you do not support whistle-blowers, you have no credibility in trashing malta.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank you very much for the argument, because i believe that this is our common basis, that we want to promote the rule of law and the separation of powers. do you think olaf should play a stronger role here in the future?
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i thank you for your commitment, and i think it is important for us - and i think i speak for mr lange - that we continue the agenda. if we consider that the wto was only set up in 1995 with the mandate of concluding multilateral trade agreements and therefore fighting poverty in the world, then we have seen that it is not so easy to reach an agreement with more than 160 countries. i can still remember well 1999 when we were faced with huge demonstrations in seattle and tried to make reasonable arguments here and then finally in 2001 the doha agreement on trade aid for developing countries. we've now got that supplemented by the un with the sustainable development goals. these are big steps in the right direction on an international level. finally, we succeeded in establishing in 2003 a parliamentary assembly for the wto, on an equal footing with the interparliamentary union and the european parliament, whose main task is to educate the parliamentarians of the least developed countries and help them negotiate with their governments on an equal footing. we finally got the agricultural agenda through in 2015. i think it is important for all of us that the agenda now at the 11th conference should again be a great success. it helps people in this world.
i have to say, madam president, this amendment to protect against dumped imports brings very important positive innovations. first, where there are market distortions such as, for example, lack of environmental protection measures, child labour or state intervention in production, this examination leads to the composition of the import price. the cost savings that exporters have made at the expense of the environment or workers can thus be offset by protective union duties. secondly, safeguard measures apply whether a state has market economy status or not. in concrete terms, this means that european companies can continue to protect themselves effectively against the flood of imports, for example cheap steel from china. third countries lose the opportunity to push domestic products out of the internal market at a price by aggressively subsidising production and raw materials. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's scrupulousness in its examination will be decisive. it is to be hoped that this review will not fall victim to political influence. the wto's position on this will also be decisive.
the commission has already done so. after the panic-mongering policy of the past year in the field of anti-dumping, i am glad that we have returned to the basics. the aim is to reform the anti-dumping rules to bring them into line with wto law while offering the greatest possible protection to european companies, rather than having an emotionalised debate about whether china is a market economy or not. this is precisely the objective that parliament and the council have achieved: rules that are country-neutral and therefore wto-compliant, but which still ensure that markets such as china, which are still subject to significant distortions and state influence, are also treated accordingly. i am glad that in this case the policy of facts has prevailed and i would like to see this happen more often in other areas.
in writing. this report focuses on enhanced cooperation between the eu and africa, in particular on enhanced dialogue on good governance, human rights and environmental policy, and on the condition that development aid is linked to respect for these issues. the report also raises concerns about security and terrorism threats and calls for the eu's africa strategy to help prevent such abuses. on the economic front, the report calls for stronger public-private partnerships, supports the establishment of a continental free trade area in africa and the increase of intra-african trade. the report also calls for the establishment of a european framework for resettlement and for the promotion of legal migration. the report also calls on member states to increase their financial contribution to trust funds and other instruments, thus helping to reduce the causes of migration. i welcome coordinated and transparent investment on the african continent to help the people there and to open up a secure future for them. however, i do not agree that member states should provide mandatory quotas of resettlement places for refugees. the right to asylum should remain the sole responsibility of the member states. it is clear that there has been a recent increase in discrepancies between the names of the reports and the actual texts. i would like to see more objectivity here.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i too would like to express my satisfaction that these nature conservation directives have passed this refit test so well. but in the end it turned out that the legal basis is in order; the main obstacles are implementation and, in some cases, financing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like to refer to two points which we believe are not sufficiently addressed in your action plan. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. we would like to see, for example, in the action plan - as you have mentioned - a specific action plan for the conservation of pollinators. that's something we need. we also need very clear statements in the future that the money from the common agricultural policy is being used to preserve and improve biodiversity and not for measures that may have the opposite effect in everyday life. these are the measures we expect from you. we hope that you will be our loud voice in the commission. we need biodiversity as a cross-cutting issue in all areas. it is not a silo, but it is a basis for life for animals, for people and, indeed, for the economy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's a pity that mr. legutko is no longer here. i would have told him that europe is not a supermarket where you can pick and choose your products. europe is a common house, which we have voluntarily moved into and where the same rules apply to everyone. these are the copenhagen criteria, first and foremost the rule of law and democracy, and this includes the independence of the courts, in particular the constitutional court. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but it can't go on like this. it's about solving this permanent constitutional crisis. all independent observers agree, including the venice commission. the european institutions have the right and the duty to draw the attention of the polish government to this. for domestic reasons, this government is determined to do and not do as it pleases. this is contrary to the treaties and it is good that the commission is taking its role as guardian of the treaties so seriously. repeated calls for dialogue were ignored. we have an obligation as elected representatives of the european people to support the commission in this and, if necessary, to demand clear measures, such as the opening of the article 7 procedure after the relevant committee has examined the situation. we do it because we love poles.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment. we should also draw certain conclusions from this, conclusions which will enable us to live and to continue to live in peace and freedom, above all with each other and also with each other. that's one thing this story can teach us. that is why i am concerned when, for example, today mr maasikas draws a conclusion from the council which i cannot accept. because if he compares populism with the communists and with the revolution of that time, then that is a completely unacceptable approach to this subject. this is politically naive and it is almost dangerously trivial what the council has put forward as its position. because i'm - and i think he meant me too - a populist, i like to listen to the vox populi. that comparison, mr president, should not be allowed in this house.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not alone in its concern. after three years of stagnation, global co2 emissions will rise again in 2017. that is a sad certainty. the hope that the changeover has finally been achieved gives way to disillusionment. the transport sector is still the main emitter of harmful gases in our cities and is responsible for a quarter of the eu's greenhouse gases. the commission recognizes what needs to be done. there is a need for strict emission limits for lorries and cars, infrastructure for clean drives and the promotion of research and manufacturing in europe. and we need to move forward with the relocation to rail and ship. i can assure you, commissioner, that with the social democrats you have allies who can do more and do it faster. i know that the mobility revolution will come with or without europe's car industry at the forefront.
i have to say, madam president, the horrendous attack in mogadishu on 21 october has briefly brought the world's attention to the plight of somalia. for a quarter of a century, there has been lawlessness here, because the state exists only in approaches. this is one of the reasons for the growing destabilization of the whole region. the horn of africa is one of the most unstable regions in the world. the tragic events should draw our attention to the region and give rise to new political efforts. the european union should support the somali diaspora, in addition to its diplomatic efforts. this is the only hope for a new somalia. above all, we must increase the funds for humanitarian aid and keep our promises. we should also press saudi arabia to stop supporting the wahhabi extremists.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would also like to thank the council very warmly for this agreement reached after 16 hours of negotiations, and commissioner oettinger for the courage we all had to hold out until the end. i know that this is a great challenge every time, but there are certain priorities for parliament to enforce. i am also very grateful to mr mureşan for the fact that we did not get up after lunch and go home and say: 'there is no budget possible', but that we really agreed in a very close and direct debate to do something for the citizens of europe. it is not by chance that the 105 million minus came about in turkey, where we see great problems with human rights, democracy and many developments, but on the other hand also the glimmer of hope that we have put something in reserve to give an incentive to be able to turn to europe again in the future. finally, i would also like to congratulate the social democrats on their joint success in raising the youth employment package to eur 350 million. this is an important act for the future, because we are showing that the european union is setting the right priorities. if we look at the european budget, which has increased by only 0.2% in commitments compared with the previous year, i would like to see which national budgets are increasing by only 0.2%. in total, we receive 0.92% of payments from gross national product at european level. this is probably the smallest budget the european union has ever had in this sense. i am very optimistic that we will then finally reach the 1.24 for the multiannual financial framework that we really deserve and need to put europe on the right track.
blue-card question. – ms thomas, i think it was at 4 o’clock in the morning – and i have to congratulate you – you insisted on the eur 350 million for youth employment, for young people, and i think we made great progress in front of the council and the commission. so i am now interested to know whether tomorrow you will vote in favour of this eur 350 million for young people, for the workforce, for their future?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. the third report on the state of implementation of the energy union makes it clear that the energy transition is not possible without adapting infrastructure to the requirements of a modern energy system. the main focus is on the development of transmission networks and pipelines, the decentralisation of pipeline systems and the interconnection of energy, telecommunications and transport infrastructure. it costs money. the commission has already proposed a budget of eur 200 billion for the expansion of transmission networks and gas pipelines alone. the eu is supporting the efsi, the connecting europe facility and the eib in this area, through the ten-e strategy with an extended list of bcis. and to make the most of the pipeline infrastructure, you need connections interconnectivity and here i welcome the commission's proposal to increase the interconnectivity target from the current 10% to 15% by 2030. this will certainly ensure security of supply. another building block for a successful energy transition and the achievement of climate goals is the clean energy package. we adopted two directives yesterday in the committee on industry, namely red ii and the eed vote, which was very narrowly adopted, 33 votes to 32, and i would like to say that we should set objectives which are realistic and which are achievable and where we do not have to fear from the outset that we will be sued for breach of contract. i assume that's what the eed will be. we are well beyond what is feasible here with the 40% energy efficiency target and the connecting targets in the member states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was very surprised yesterday to see that a very narrow majority - with one vote - in the committee on industry and energy voted for a 40% reduction in total energy consumption by 2030. if we think about it, if we reduce by 40%, then for a single-family house that is heated at an average of 20 degrees in europe, it simply means that we have to bring the temperature down to 12 degrees. i wonder who among our people wants that? or that if we have a speed limit of 80 miles an hour today, we have to reduce the average speed on highways to 70 miles an hour. the problem is that, of course, with a 40% reduction in total energy consumption, renewable energy cannot be expanded as it has been until now, but that the expansion programmes must be massively reduced. and we can say goodbye to electric mobility altogether, because then the whole thing is simply not viable. i believe that this 40% reduction in total energy consumption is simply irresponsible and that the population is not supporting it. i understand that it's a negotiating position, but we have to be clear that these goals are unrealistic.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the introduction of the new global accounting standard is another lesson we have learned from the financial crisis. we are protecting financial stability, lending and legal certainty, and we are taking another important first step in the ongoing review of the regulatory framework for all european banks. the new accounting standard is more forward-looking in recognising expected credit losses in order to ensure that financial institutions are adequately prepared for risk and to reduce excessive risk-taking. however, as its introduction - as my predecessors have mentioned - could have a disproportionate impact on equity and lending ratios, the european parliament called for an introduction regime as early as october 2016 and with tomorrow's decision we are putting forward a response to that call. we are taking a good middle ground between the dynamic and the static approach to be more flexible and risk-sensitive in the face of economic change, we are anchoring a freedom of choice for institutions to accommodate different requirements, we are ensuring appropriate disclosure and reporting obligations, and we are setting the duration of the regime at five years in line with the basel standards. at the same time, we are introducing a transitional provision for the exception to the ceiling for large loans in foreign currencies, in order to avoid undesirable effects on financial stability. i can tell my colleagues that i consider it a good, workable, forward-looking compromise and will ask for their approval tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i will not reveal any secret if i say that we had concerns already when we voted on the trilogue negotiations as an instrument for stability and peace - concerns based on a legal opinion. we wanted to clarify whether the instrument was compatible with the objectives of the common foreign and security policy and, in particular, with article 40. we are clear, however, that development aid is of no use if it does not reach the recipient countries effectively because of the tense security situation. so we need to have a debate about how to achieve security for effective and sustainable development assistance. the compromise reached reflects the willingness to regard the instrument as an instrument of the european union's external policy. this is particularly welcome. i am of the opinion that, overall, a genuine common foreign and security policy of the european union is essential when it comes to global peace and security. the challenges we face require a europe that speaks with one voice. the eu must not remain a paying partner in foreign policy, but must become a confident player. it is the only way to contribute to stability in the world.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the civil war in yemen - a humanitarian catastrophe - has now lasted almost six years, and over a hundred children die every day, two million children are malnourished, there is hardly any clean drinking water and one million are infected with cholera. it is a proxy war between the us-backed saudis on one side and the rebels, backed by the shiites on the other side - all on the backs of the population. the resolutions adopted in this house were correct, but there is still much to be done, of course, and many efforts still need to be made, such as stopping the arms deliveries - including those to the saudis - also carried out by european countries, ending the aerial bombardments, resuming negotiations and, above all, opening the ports blocked by the saudis. i know, it's easier to court-martial ex-yugoslav generals than members of the saudi royal family.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to ask a question to mr preda, who, as we know, has a special feeling when there is intervention, especially by russia. so i would be interested to know whether he is aware that almost all the weapons are being supplied to saudi arabia from the united states or europe, and whether he has information or can give me information whether russia is also involved in this whole conflict, whether through arms supplies or through personnel support. i would be very happy, mr preda, if you could give me the answer. i'm sure you're well informed.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the multilateral commercial court is a step in the right direction in improving investor protection. the future court of justice will, of course, have to meet strict criteria. it must be permanent, transparent, cost-effective and independent. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be the first instance for the review of the law. in no case should this new system result in foreign investors receiving special rights that are denied to others such as ngos, third parties, parties or states. i would therefore like to know, commissioner, whether the commission is working in this direction. what is the reaction of the member states, and also of non-eu countries, to the proposal to set up a multilateral trade court? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the financial services reform following the 2008-2009 financial crisis included a directive establishing a framework for the reorganisation and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms (brrd). these legislative documents have created a framework to effectively manage the recovery and restructuring phase of distressed financial institutions and thus to reduce their negative impact on financial stability (contagion effects) and public finances (taxpayer-funded rescue packages). this is achieved through the 'bail-in', a mechanism whereby either debt is written off or liabilities are converted into equity in accordance with a predefined hierarchy. in order to ensure that sufficient financial resources are available for write-downs or equity conversions, the brrd requires financial institutions to set a minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities (mrel). however, the rules on covered bonds and newly issued debt securities vary widely across member states, leading to different treatment of unsecured debtors and creditors across the eu. the proposal partially harmonises the hierarchy of insolvency creditors. this changes the ranking of holders of senior unsecured bank bonds eligible for brrd compliance, so that debtors and creditors of banks across the eu are treated more equally.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. with great respect for their work, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, helga stevens and our colleague from the european people's party, marek plura, for their excellent report on the implementation of the european strategy for people with disabilities. on this basis, we want to make social inclusion of all people in society and in the labour market the norm. we must also implement the steps described in detail; the eu-28 governments are now called upon to do this. i would remind you of the directives on audiovisual media services, on the accessibility of internet sites and on the european emergency number 112, which have not yet been implemented by all member states. even the websites of the eu institutions do not all have the best level of accessibility. the report is right: access to the labour market without barriers starts with adequate education. the first thing that member states must do is to take measures without delay to train teachers accordingly. at the same time, accessibility must be consistently communicated and implemented, and continuing training and the necessary adaptations at the workplace, but also in transport, must be ensured during recruitment interviews. the programme also covers rehabilitation and reintegration into the labour market. the unemployment rate of people with disabilities is, after all, much higher than that of people without disabilities. so let's get going now! i also think it is very useful to make the european disability strategy a part of the european semester in the future. i would like to thank the european commission, and commissioner thyssen in particular, for standing firmly behind and fully supporting the european strategy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union is growing in popularity. but often people cannot imagine what this means for them individually. that is why citizenship of the union is very important. it means much more than having a european passport. citizenship of the union is something concrete, something that has to do with the wishes and concerns of the people and should also fulfil them in some way. from the point of view of social democracy, it is important to establish the reference to the charter of fundamental rights, because social rights play a central role here. we consider freedom of movement to be an important element of union citizenship. it must be said here in particular that it should also apply to those people who are now in danger of losing these rights as a result of brexit.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. if the eu is to be a global player, it must regulate digital trade. it needs a fair, timely system that allows data to flow while not weakening our high european data protection standards. data protection in the eu is not negotiable. it should be noted that the digital divide needs to be bridged not only between developed and developing countries, but also in developed countries. the internet must be made available to all citizens. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of personal data, in particular the new rules on the protection of personal data and the new rules on the protection of personal data. we need to put in place measures to limit the negative effects of digitalisation and make digital trade fair and equitable.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already complied with one specific request made by the panama committee of inquiry, namely the blacklist of non-cooperative states, which has been in existence since 5 december. many were disappointed that only 17 countries were on the list, not a single eu country, not even relevant tax havens like guernsey or andorra, and not even the us, which does not want to cooperate with european tax authorities. on the contrary, a letter from five eu finance ministers to the us treasury secretary was received just a few days ago, warning that some of the proposed arrangements under the new tax reform were in breach of wto rules and oecd agreements on combating tax avoidance. the blacklist is having an effect. of the 92 countries surveyed, 47 have indicated that they would cooperate with the eu's financial authorities and adapt their tax legislation, and have been placed on a grey list. the commission is also proposing to introduce sanctions against these countries in the future, ranging from freezing eu funds to measures at national level. the blacklist is only a requirement of the pana report, and many other issues are still open. there is a great need for action here, because aggressive tax planning is costing european budgets €70 billion in lost revenue every year. in financial terms, a big issue is vat fraud, 150 billion euros in the books. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the digital economy, where the council adopted new rules on 5 december to make it easier for online businesses to comply with vat rules. the commission is also expected to make proposals against intermediaries. there is still much to be done in the fight against tax evasion. but we're on the right track. the pana committee of inquiry and taxe 1 and taxe 2 have helped to propose a wide range of concrete measures aimed at greater transparency and fairness... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the international consortium of journalists has shed light on money laundering, on fraud, on the most aggressive tax avoidance, on the concealment of money from the rich and multinationals, with the help of handlers like mossack fonseca. we in the european parliament, we social democrats, are on the bright side of legislation. i see the commission is too. it is time, above all, for the member states to stop hiding. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. it's about public coverage by country. the famous list of tax havens, including eu countries, is at issue. it's about finally banning letterbox companies. it is a question of defining the digital workplace. there's a lot to do. i therefore believe that unanimity in the council on taxation should be abolished.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. a thousand billion euros are being lost in europe because of tax havens and tax evasion. there must be something wrong with that! it is shocking to see what we discover every day in each new inquiry, in each new committee, of the lack of political will, of the lack of sanction mechanisms, of instruments and of tax loopholes. the biggest problem is not just outside the european union, the problem begins in the heart of the european union: the lack of european and international cooperation, the disunity and selfishness of some member states and the lack of a common european tax policy. we have too many tax havens and too little room for manoeuvre because of too little europe. i am calling for taxation where the value is created, for the disclosure of all member states which do not comply with the rules ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would first like to thank the two rapporteurs, josé manuel fernandes and udo bullmann, for their excellent work on both efsi i and efsi ii. we've been going in new directions here, and we've been successful. the efsi will become more effective, more focused and more transparent thanks to the european parliament. we are increasing the financial volume of the efsi, we are extending it and we are improving it, based on the experience we have gained in the last few years in dealing with efsi i. we are improving funding, we are expanding the european investment advisory hub, we are anchoring a direct award of the eu guarantee to better integrate small-scale projects into big research ideas, we are ensuring that the very high-quality projects that are not carried out under existing instruments are supported, we are strengthening governance, we are ensuring more transparency, improved pricing and the implementation of the cop21 climate targets, and we are calling for further investment efforts because we are still lagging behind in investments in regions and as a continent. please agree!
in writing. the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) was set up by the european member states to promote private and public investment in energy efficiency, renewable energy, infrastructure, transport, health and digitalisation. the efsi was initially established for three years to mobilise at least eur 315 billion of additional investment in the real economy by 2018. the commission now wishes to renew the efsi in terms of both duration and financial capacity. the investment has so far been concentrated mainly in large member states. better coordination will now see more efsi funding flowing to smaller member states, including austria. the investment decisions are explained in more detail by explanatory notes published online, which clearly show that the selected projects would not have been funded at the same time or to the same extent without the support from the efsi. it also makes investment decisions more transparent. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules on the application of the conditions for the granting of efsi support. austria currently has six signed projects, mainly in the fields of transport (regional railway infrastructure) and renewable energies. these correspond to an investment volume of eur 2,3 billion. the commission has also identified a number of other projects for the period 2018-2020, including investments in energy efficiency, new school and hospital infrastructure.
in writing. the eu is more influential than ever, but when it comes to foreign and security policy, the individual member states dominate. from the war in syria to fighting poverty in africa, from energy dependence to hybrid threats, the challenges facing europe have grown. trump and the coming brexit also require a united europe that speaks with one voice and that is loud and clear. this is why the european foreign and defence ministers signed the pesco founding act. the eu is also committed to the development of a european defence policy, which will be based on the principles of the treaty of rome and the treaty of rome. it is a good thing when the european union does this, where it is particularly strong, to pool its resources and agree on a common approach. but there are a few things that must not be overlooked: firstly, pesco should create synergy effects, while a common european defence is another matter. secondly, we must ensure that pesco does not lead to a two-tier defence and thirdly, the needs of neutral states such as sweden or austria must be given special consideration. more urgent than any discussion of a deeper defence union, however, is better cooperation between the 28 eu member states, because only through a genuine common foreign and security policy can europe show its strength to the outside world.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not after 12 years of negotiations, numerous inspections and inspections by international nuclear energy authorities, president trump is now announcing with a hip-shaking that he will block and ignore this agreement. i can only advise the union not to take part in this and to stand by the agreement. otherwise, there is a danger that this vacuum will be filled by russia and china in particular. in return, of course, iran must abide by its commitments under the agreement. i also expect iran to take an active part in foreign policy and to make a major contribution to the peaceful stabilisation of the war-torn region of the middle east. i am not saying that we should not be able to do this, but i am saying that we should not be able to do this. and solutions include, even if some of them don't like it, that iran is brought to the table.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i made my first speech in the european parliament on the iran sanctions six years ago. i argued against the use of military means. much has changed since then, thanks in particular to the efforts of the european union, and in particular to you, mrs mogherini. the nuclear agreement was a great success and it must not be jeopardised. there were many expectations attached to it: that the sanctions would be lifted and the people would benefit and that there would be a relaxation in the region. none of that happened. there is a risk of failure and thus of renewed instability. iran has done its part and is now in danger of being swept up in geopolitical conflicts. what we urgently need is de-escalation in the relations of the states of the region with each other, but also within them. a confrontation strategy only helps the hardliners.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. president trump's decision was a mistake. she has nothing to do with the peace process. she alone is supposed to calm his coalition of ultraconservative jews and radical christians. i am not against jerusalem being the capital of israel. but this isn't a game of monopoly where the man with the money buys himself a town. if jerusalem is recognised as the capital, then it will be the capital of the palestinians. but not out of sheer whim, but as part of a larger peace process. the united states has lost its role as an impartial mediator. the eu must now face this vacuum. it has the economic and political power and the prestige to contribute to the solution of this conflict. because, as we have seen, we are feeling the effects of the conflicts in the middle east more and more frequently and more strongly here. that should be a motivation too.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. as a new member of the house, this is my first full day in the house. i am glad to be able to act in accordance with the principle of montesquieu, who said: "if it is not necessary to make a law, then it is necessary not to make a law". in this case, concerning the kebab, it would have to be said that if it is not necessary to make a ban, then it is not necessary to make a ban. it seems to me clear from the documentation and the discussions that there is no need to ban it because the phosphate content of kebabs is much, much lower than in many of the foods and drinks we consume all the time. if mrs sommer, who thankfully has raised this issue in order not to contribute to over-regulation at european level, is accused of populism, as has just been done, then that is self-evident, because the fear that is behind it is the attempt to intervene centrally on our part in something that concerns the daily lives of citizens, which is the real populism. i am therefore pleased to vote against the objection to the commission proposal in the forthcoming vote and to make it clear that the european union is concerned with important issues, as has already been the case in the debate this evening - israel, human rights, libya, hong kong - and it is not over-regulating by banning the kebab, for example.
i have to say, madam president, once again, a summit will be devoted to europe's prima causa, refugee and migration policy, and once again, this forecast is far from daring, and little will come of it. the conditions for this would be more favourable than ever. the european parliament adopted at its last meeting a balanced mandate for the reform of the dublin system, on the basis of which the continuing delay in the reorientation could be addressed immediately. it just takes courage to finally start negotiating. maybe a christmas miracle will happen. at least one problem could be addressed in the short term: as every year, tens of thousands of refugees are stuck in winter-proof quarters, freezing to death and falling victim to criminal traffickers. it is my christmas wish that the member states will finally honour the commitments they have made to the unhcr.
in writing. we have learnt a few important lessons from the first round of negotiations. i would like to see more precision on the most important points: the rights of eu citizens in the uk and vice versa, the cost of brexit and the northern irish border. the commission has also taken the view that the uk should be able to use its tax benefits to promote itself as a financial centre and a new tax haven after brexit. the fact is that the uk will continue to be a strong economic partner of the european union. the exact nature of this partnership will be clarified in the next round of negotiations. the eu member states and we in the european parliament must continue to stand united and firm. one thing is clear: people are at the centre of the debate, and we must create a clear legal framework and fair conditions for them. there's still a lot to do!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is rather confusing when the president of the commission, mr juncker, is apparently ignoring the recent report of his own authority on romania and bulgaria. the report clearly states that neither the reform of the judiciary nor the fight against corruption and organised crime are satisfactory. the european union is also committed to the protection of the european union's external borders. it is of course desirable that the european external border should be secured and protected a little further south-east. but the conditions must also be right, and the commission's report clearly says otherwise. i am not sure how to ensure that the police and the judiciary are properly protected against corruption, but perhaps mr juncker has an appropriate answer. but one thing is clear: schengen, as has been said many times today, needs to be revised, schengen needs to be reformed. and it is also clear that the rapid launch of enlargement, when the conditions are not yet right, will not make europe safer, will not make the frontiers safer! and whether you like to hear it or not, our citizens in europe feel the same way.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i grew up in upper austria, in a region surrounded by borders, with beams and barbed wire restricting my horizon. these borders did not protect us, they prevented us from making contact and weakened our region. europe: this was the dream of my generation, to live without borders. schengen has changed europe, brought people together and increased our prosperity. austria in particular has benefited from this. open borders are a precious commodity. they require trust, and that trust must be handled with care. but that should not prevent others from enjoying this freedom of movement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is unfair and unjust, unwise and destroys confidence in the common europe. it's high time we finally did what we should have done a long time ago.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the social europe is often invoked in sunday speeches. but now it's about delivering real results. we cannot continue to watch the distribution of wealth in europe fall apart, we cannot continue to watch labour rights being trampled on throughout europe, when we look at the new social plans in austria, for example - the new 12-hour working day - and we cannot continue to watch citizens lose faith in the dream of a europe where everyone benefits from prosperity and our children are better off. neither nations nor the miraculous forces of the market will save us. that's why we have to save ourselves and act now. the social summit in gothenburg was only the beginning. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. outside this chamber, mr paul rübig and other austrian members of parliament have just handed over the bethlehem peace light to the european parliament. here in the plenary we are debating with the commissioner responsible the implementation of the social pillar in the european union. it's a combination of both. social and economic cohesion is a vital prerequisite for peace in europe. a fairer europe, a more competitive europe and the strengthening of its social dimension are among our common highest priorities. in gothenburg we were given - you could say - a large package by the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have already achieved that the social market economy is the sustainability, the european regulatory model. we have already achieved that the fundamental social rights are part of the charter of fundamental rights, citizenship and freedoms. we must now make sure that the social dimension is incorporated in european policy in a very concrete way and that we maintain a balance between competition, the economy and the social dimension. the social pillar is a must, and it's like a christmas present. let's get this over with.
in writing. after years of political pressure from social democrats, the commission has put forward a proposal for a 'european pillar of social rights'. for the first time in the history of the european union, a 'social europe' is being put on the agenda. the proclamation of the social pillar sets out the roadmap for a social europe. the declarations of intent must be followed by concrete measures such as a framework directive on decent working conditions, basic security for children in poverty, a european labour authority and minimum social standards for all member states. it is high time we regained the confidence of working people across europe. only a social europe is a just europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think, commissioner, that it is rare for a commission proposal to have received such unanimous support in this house as yours, and you have the support of the people. according to the latest eurobarometer survey, 90% of europeans believe that the european union and the member states need to work together in disaster prevention and relief. they are convinced that only if the member states are united can disaster prevention really work. that's what your proposal is all about. you've made it clear today that we need to do two things: be well-equipped to respond immediately in the event of a disaster. but what is essential is that wherever disasters are to be prevented or reduced, we should be really strong in prevention and preparedness. your plan includes that. i believe it is important to make these funds available as soon as possible, because although the member states remain responsible for disaster prevention, effective disaster prevention in the european union can only be achieved if we are prepared to take european funds into our hands and transfer the operational tasks in this case to the commission. i wish you the best of luck. i believe you have the approval of this house.
mr president, commissioner, representatives of the council! i call on the european people's party to demand that all symbols and slogans of the greatest and most murderous aberration in our history, the national socialist and fascist regimes, be banned throughout europe and in all 28 member states. this is to be prosecuted immediately and without exception. this has nothing to do with freedom of speech. as chairman of the parliamentary working group on anti-semitism, with many convinced members of this house, we stand for the fight against anti-semitism. he believes that this development must be met with determination. the governments of all eu member states are now called upon to finally enshrine these bans in national legislation. as with hate-posting and anti-semitic racist crimes on the internet, measures must be taken, which i would best describe as subjecting the internet platforms to media laws in order to be able to take criminal action. i also thank mr jakovčić for his initiative in calling for a resolution. the urgent demand must be made: let us get rid of nazi and fascist symbols and ideologies from our european society! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i agree with you completely. i think it's the only way to go. i am therefore pleased with the agreement which the commission and the council are showing today. i would ask both institutions to do what is necessary now. there are examples: germany, france, and my home country austria, too, have a very clear criminal prosecution. please clear the way now!
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not my question is more about the fact that we will have a new science media hub in strasbourg from 1 january. the science media hub is designed to improve communication on what is happening at european level. is there any possibility that the committee on petitions could make better use of this instrument to bring the results we have through the european parliament's research service to the citizens?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. make our planet great again! so the call by french president macron, in reference to the us withdrawal from international climate diplomacy under us president trump. the task of politics in this context is, in my view, quite clear: we must create ambitious and clear conditions for citizens and for the economy. our actions and our thinking will have to be faster and more radical if we are to keep global warming below 2 degrees celsius. this report on low-emission mobility sets out the urgently needed targets for progress in the transport sector. from the socialist group's point of view, i would particularly like to highlight the fact that we have succeeded in establishing public transport as the central reference point for sustainable mobility, in defining ambitious relocation targets and in highlighting the need for clear and fair price signals in all modes of transport in relation to international air and sea transport. i would ask all members - and i am making this appeal in particular to the people's party and the conservatives - to support this report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we have already dealt with the development in cambodia many times in this context, and there have been times when it was better. one could vainly hope that the hun-sen regime would be willing to submit to democratic rules. the people of cambodia want change. they deserve a better life because they have done great things after the civilization disaster of the khmer rouge years. hun sen is currently destroying everything. the fight against all those who are fighting for a free, social and just cambodia is being fought with incredible brutality. it is time for europe to give the corrupt dictator the red card and sanction the regime by withdrawing aid technically and financially and by restricting travel for those who wantonly destroy democracy in this much-plagued country.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, conservative forces in el salvador consider women and girls as incubators in fact, to the extent that female human beings end up in jail for two to eight years for miscarriages and for up to 50 years for abortions. to a healthy mind this sounds like a bizarre nightmare but in fact this is the everyday reality for women and girls in el salvador in the year 2017. for those in this house who think this should not be our business as it is in fact saving lives, i would like to ask you: how many more women and girls should suffer and die before you will understand that this is cynical, killing human beings, and in fact defending murder. i don’t know about you but i will certainly not leave those women and girls alone.
