mr president, standing here reminds me of the first time i entered this grand chamber. i remember the excitement i felt, knowing that in this room we can deliver the greatest amount of good for the largest number of people. that is why we are all here: to improve the lives of our citizens. yet, since i arrived, what have i seen? i have seen an old boys’ club in charge, a few men from a few countries seeking to dominate every major decision, and a way of working that leaves many meps and the people they represent out in the cold. that is not fair, not open and not representative of the diversity of europe. so i stand here with a clear purpose: to make sure that every voice matters in this parliament and that every mep – every one of you – has equal power. there is an old saying: ‘a strong woman stands up for herself, a stronger woman stands up for everyone else’. so my appeal to every single one of you in this. don’t vote for the candidate who wants to further their own agenda. vote for the candidate who wants to help you deliver your agenda and your citizens’ agenda and who wants to stand up for all 750 of you. vote for the candidate who embodies change and who shows the people of europe that we are here to represent every corner of europe, every viewpoint, every single citizen. vote for the candidate who will listen to you. now i might be deaf, but i am a very good listener. and let us today send out a signal that we stand by our own motto of ‘united in diversity’: that, wherever you come from, whatever background you have or obstacles you have faced, europe is a place where even the greatest of challenges can be overcome with hard work and optimism. since i was elected, i have been honoured to work with meps from across this chamber. any of you who have worked with me will know what i believe in. i believe in uniting people, in equality and fairness, and in respect. those are the values i would bring to this role if you vote for me today. so let us make a bold and decisive step towards change right now. let us restore people’s faith in the european parliament. let us end the old boys’ club and breathe some fresh air into this building. if you think it’s time for change, then i can deliver it: nobody left behind, no more backroom dealing, no more old boys’ club. it is time that every voice matters. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to thank the prime minister for the inspiring speech. i thank you also for always defending the interests of the european parliament, and that will be necessary in the coming months, in particular because of the negotiations on brexit (although i will not talk about brexit as we have a debate this afternoon with president tusk). and i agree with my colleague, mr kamall – which is not always the case – when we say it could be a true turning point. let’s face it, the turning point is already here: a us president, trump, who is openly against the european union and saying that other countries will break away. what other turning point do we need? why are you still here, i ask myself? go to the united states, go to the inauguration of mr trump instead of being here, but a us president openly saying that other countries are going to break away from the european union? i have never seen it, never heard it before, and i think that it is a wake-up call for us to reform the european union as fast as possible. if we don’t understand now that we have to stick together, that we need unity, that we need reform, that we need a more integrated european union – also for our geopolitical interests – then when are we going to understand it? it is the moment, and that is your enormous historical responsibility. you have an important summit in valletta in february, where you are going to talk with the other leaders of the european union about the future. i think it is absolutely necessary, and we in the house – the coalition between the ppe and alde – have prepared five concrete points, which in our opinion are necessary for the reform of the european union. and we also offer a very good method for doing this. why not use the method we used with the monti report? the monti report was a report on the own resources of the european union where the three institutions work together – the council, commission and european parliament – that is the proposal we are making. start the process and let it be an open process. it’s not the process of two groups; it has to be a process, gianni, of all pro-europeans in this parliament. it’s not the time to start the elections in 2019 and to say, ‘i’m in opposition to the rest of the european parliament’; it’s time to work together, because it is now that we have to rescue europe – not in 2019.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr prime minister, welcome to the european parliament and, from the outset, all our encouragement to the maltese government for its first presidency of the union. lithuania proved in 2013 that a first presidency from a small country can be a success. i'm sure you're capable of doing the same. but that's not to say it's a bad time. between russian, turkish, chinese and now american presidents determined to divide europe and an extreme right determined to dynamite it from within, the european union, the world's first experiment in transnational democracy, is threatened. i want to address two issues of your presidency. you have put migration at the top of your priorities, and that is natural. the year 2016 was the deadliest year in the mediterranean, the causes of migration are far from being eliminated and, at this very moment, tens of thousands of refugees who have arrived in the union are still stranded in completely inhuman conditions that threaten their lives. malta, together with italy and greece, is at the forefront of this challenge and it cannot be said that the solidarity of the other member states of the union has been particularly swift or particularly generous. i would therefore have expected malta to use all its energy to mobilize this solidarity. the july 2015 agreement for the relocation of 160,000 refugees remains poorly implemented: only 10,000 refugees have been relocated at this stage. therefore, the implementation of the agreement must be accelerated and the allocation made the norm. it is unacceptable that countries on the front line, such as malta, have to face this alone. but that's not what i read in your program. on the contrary, it is in the spirit of the eu-turkey 'contain and contain' agreement. worse still, you mention the possibility of a similar agreement with libya. so tell me, between two governments, two parliaments, countless warlords, with whom will you make a pact? to get what? the confinement, in the hands of mafia groups, of migrants sold into slavery and prostitution? that would be unworthy of the values of the european union. the second issue i want to raise is that of tax justice, which is not even on your list of priorities. unbridled tax competition between member states benefits only the large taxpayers. we must put an end to this and make tax justice a top priority. otherwise, the explosion of inequality, fuelled by fiscal injustice, will allow the ranks of national populist parties to grow further. after the many scandals and revelations, the european commission, supported by parliament, has multiplied legislative initiatives of which i find no trace in your programme. and we understand that. according to a study carried out by us greens, malta is a tax haven for foreign multinationals and wealthy individuals. between 2012 and 2015, your country withdrew €14 billion in tax revenues from other eu member states. i therefore ask you to reopen negotiations in the council as soon as possible on this subject, in particular on the anti-money laundering directive, on the creation of public registers of beneficial owners of trust and shell companies, on public tax transparency for multinationals and on the start of harmonisation of the corporate tax base. mr prime minister, we know that there are many, many electoral deadlines in europe and that they can be paralysing. i urge you not to resign and to rely on the growing indignation of our fellow citizens to remove the obstacles you will encounter on your way.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, president tusk said in his speech that the world has become a more dangerous place. that is the least we can say, because i remember that the last strategic paper of javier solana of 2003 spoke about the ‘ring of friends’ around us. i think it is more the ‘ring of fire’ around us. putin, the conflicts in the middle east, but merely also the new us president-elect, mr trump. i have to tell you, i am a little bit disappointed at the reaction of the european union against a us leader who is saying that it’s the end of the european union – that there will be other member states leaving the european union. it’s insane! i think that we have to react to this. what would happen in the us if european leaders were saying, ‘we think that california will break away’, or ‘florida will break away’? immediately, i think that the ambassador of the european union would be called to the state department in washington to explain what this means. we have to be very conscious of the fact that this will be a turning point on 20 january 2017. whether you like it or not, it will be a turning point – maybe not completely, but certainly in the way that we have to look at our relationship with the us, and more precisely inside the european union. it is now the time not only to fix the european union, but to do a number of things that were impossible in the past. five years ago, you were saying that the european defence union was not necessary. in reality, it is definitely necessary, and we have to speed it up. it is the same thing with the european border and coast guard. the migration crisis can only be tackled with the european border and coast guard. not with one with eur 250 million – that is what we spent today on the european border and coast guard – in the us, the amount spent on the border and coast guard is usd 32 billion. that’s the comparison we have to make. the same with the governance of the eurozone, where the five presidents’ report – when is it coming? how long do we have to wait for a legislative proposal from the commission to come to the council and to the european parliament? it is time to fix it, like it is time also to fix the cleaning up of our banks. it has taken eight years now, and we can tell that they have not cleaned up our banks in europe; we still face the problems. so, in the brexit negotiations, i think you are completely right, and mr weber is completely right when he said no cherry picking at all. we shall never accept it. you can say, ‘i want to leave the union, i want to leave the european judicial court, i want to leave the customs union’, but you cannot at the same time say ‘oh, but that little piece interests me, and that is something that i like ...’ no way! it is a fair agreement that we are looking for, not a situation where it is better to be outside the european union than inside, as a member state.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much for this discussion. it was definitely a painful discussion because all of us feel very uncomfortable about the situation. nobody should feel proud of this situation, especially because of our moral framework, because all of us, we know well and we want to offer these people dignity in this very unprecedented situation. let me take this opportunity to repeat that the commission is committed to helping the authorities of the countries concerned in their response. this is why commissioner avramopoulos was in lesbos and in greece today to talk with the greek authorities. this is why i am going to serbia on saturday, in order to meet with the serbian authorities and to discuss all things, from unaccompanied minors to the conditions of the refugees, even in belgrade. through our various funding instruments we are ready to respond to additional needs. i can say now that in serbia on saturday i will announce additional funding, especially to support our humanitarian partners on the ground, with the collaboration, of course, of the serbian authorities, because we strongly believe that no one should remain in the cold in these conditions. i completely agree with you that in these very challenging days for the european project we can send our eu citizens the message that we are ready to make a difference in order to provide assistance to these vulnerable people. eu citizens want to see actions, not words, and our success in these very difficult circumstances will be measured by how effectively we can work together. here, i would like to say a big thank you to this house for its support, because today i saw that you are ready to give us support in order to continue on this difficult road. of course, regardless of the emergency situation – and we have to meet this emergency situation – in these challenging times we should not forget the need for longer-term solutions. i call on all other eu member states, through, of course, the maltese presidency, to continue stepping up the number of people they relocate from greece and italy. member states should also deliver on their commitments and deploy their asylum experts for a sufficiently long period of time. i completely agree with my dear friend mr kyrkos that the situation regarding experts on the ground is unacceptable. so far, on average only half of the experts requested are present on the ground. i admit that the eu-turkey agreement has some controversial parts but, at the same time, it has allowed us to put a stop to the countless deaths at sea. but here i would like to emphasise that this refugee crisis is not a national problem. it is not a greek, an italian, a serbian, or a spanish problem; it is a european problem and its solution remains a collective european responsibility. this is why we have to insist on having a common european position and we have to, of course, ask the international community to help us in this condition because it is also a global issue. it is also a global responsibility. i would like to focus on some issues. i totally agree with linda mcavan about the cash voucher scheme. from my experience on the ground, i saw that this is the only way to offer dignity to refugees. this is why it is one of my top four priorities in greece, along with shelter, education of course, and special care for unaccompanied minors. in this way we give, first and foremost, dignity to these people, as i already said. this is the foundation for everyone in order to deal with the situation when they come as refugees. from my experience also, and from my staff’s evaluation, this is much more cost-effective and efficient than any other scheme, and especially the catering services which are currently provided in greece. the cash voucher scheme also supports the local markets, the local economies, and this is why we established in turkey the essn project for one million syrian refugees inside turkey. the greek minister for migration, mr mouzalas, has publicly announced the transition to this scheme, from catering services to cash and voucher, by march. we should not delay this transition. i would like to thank mr moraes for his kind words. as i said, there are funds available. if the space is given, we will support new shelters. if another ship comes to host refugees we could support that too. this is why we are in daily contact with the greek authorities through commissioner avramopoulos and mr verwey from our services. we find daily that the solution is not easy but we give our soul to achieve the best and i think this is what we need. i would also like to focus the issue of the transfer of refugees and migrants from the aegean islands to the mainland, which many of you raised. after considerable talks with the greek authorities, we decided to transfer vulnerable people at least, in order to avoid a deterioration in the situation. i would like to say that on the mainland of greece we can manage to deal with the present situation and many of the refugees who were in inappropriate camps have already been transferred to very good conditions in many hotels around thessaloniki and around athens. if we can manage to establish the cash voucher scheme by march, and if we can manage to transfer more refugees from the aegean islands to the mainland, i think the situation will get better. thank you very much again for your support and for your help and assistance in these very difficult conditions.
president-in-office of the council. other we, as the presidency, reiterate that we are aware of the difficulties and conditions faced by refugees and migrants in greece and serbia, and i think the european commission has already said that measures are being taken, resources are available. as the presidency, we will do everything we can to continue to follow these developments in the interest of the dignity of these refugees and migrants who, in the end, did not enter the european continent on a whim, but ended up among us because they are fleeing war and persecution in their own countries. but let me remind you that our country, as many speakers and honourable members have said, has experience because, for the last few years - not the last year, not the last two years, but the last decade - we have experienced this challenge, often alone. i have often heard the debate in the european institutions, and we know what it means to have the resources of a country out to sea every day to save human beings and, in the end, to welcome them back and see them integrate. and the prime minister, this morning, said it bluntly: he said that basically more work is needed in the council to, first of all, see that what we have agreed is implemented (some of you mentioned relocation) and we want to continue to see how those countries that are still behind on taking up the quota have to continue to do their best in this respect. but we also need to have effective border controls, as well as continue to follow what we agreed on when, once again, we offered the platform to host the valletta summit, 14 months ago, just over a year ago. and there, on the outside, not only were we europeans, but we also had our african comrades. and now, in the coming days, the maltese presidency will be convening a meeting of senior officials to see what progress has been made, what progress has been made on both sides, and how that investment we have pledged is being invested so that illegal activity on the african continent is replaced by positive investment in this regard. and let us also work, even though we know that, in these six months, we cannot solve all the challenges and problems we have in this area, let us continue to make progress so that we have responsibility-sharing between everyone. i repeat, we know that you will be facing this challenge alone and we believe, and we will work as a presidency, and continue to understand more about the rest of the member states to make progress on sharing responsibility between all. thank you very much and i am pleased to have this first opportunity to be with you and look forward to continuing to work together for these coming weeks and months as presidency, together with the european parliament.
in writing. merkel's approach, wir schaffen das, has always been the combination of solidarity with genuine war refugees, and at the same time working on effective control of our external borders. yet 40,000 people who arrived earlier in europe are still stuck this winter in temporary reception camps in greece and the balkans. that is unacceptable. today, solutions are needed, humanitarian responses, warmth and a roof over their heads. but that's temporary. a structural solution has also been on the table for some time. it must be carried out now. all member states must now commit themselves to this refugee crisis. this means, of course, that refugees and migrants themselves must also be prepared to accept the offer of shelter that is made to them and to apply for asylum wherever they are received. there are duties on both sides. only with strict border controls and a clear and easy registration of who is a refugee and who is a migrant can we sustain a social support for a humanitarian refugee policy.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by congratulating you on your reappointment as vice-president of this house. almost a year ago, in march 2016, i was announcing to you in this house the launch of a broad discussion on the european social values and rights for the world of work in the 21st century. this was the consultation on establishing the european pillar of social rights, an initiative already announced by president juncker in the state of the union address in september 2015. today, we are here to discuss your own—initiative report, which represents a valuable contribution to the consultation on the european pillar of social rights. i would like to start by congratulating ms rodrigues not only for a very ambitious report, but also for her ability to get the support of all political groups in this house for this initiative. during the past year, we have consulted widely at european and national level, engaging european institutions, social partners, civil society, national governments and parliaments and national—level stakeholders. i would like to thank all of you who organised debates here in the european parliament or in your constituencies on the pillar of social rights. they all contributed to the broader consultation. we have received about 16 500 online replies and nearly 200 position papers. we have been listening to stakeholders’ concerns about their rights, their careers, their life choices and opportunities in the 21st century. we heard a clear call for action. i am convinced more than ever that the debate on social issues should be at the heart of the discussions on what kind of union our citizens want to have. next monday, we will hold a conference at the highest political level, where your rapporteur, ms rodrigues, will be one of the main speakers. president juncker will be there, along with vice-president dombrovskis and many ministers and high—level representatives of european social partners and civil society. we also expect the new president of the european parliament to be there with us. this will be the occasion to reflect on the results of the consultation and to reflect, collectively, where we want to go from here. following that, the commission will adopt its final proposal on the pillar in the spring. i am very happy that your report not only wholeheartedly endorses the pillar, but that it also appeals for greater ambition. this house has repeatedly called for a better balance between our economic policies and social realities. this is not only an economic or social imperative, but is a political necessity. there is a need to regain the trust of citizens in the european project by reaffirming the commitment to european social values and delivering on this commitment. this is the approach the commission is following: strengthening the european social model and promoting upward social convergence. most importantly, your report is a resolute call for action which would make a difference to european citizens. i would like to highlight some of the most important suggestions in your report, which we are considering for the implementation of the pillar. your report rightly stresses the need to address new forms of employment and working conditions and calls for horizontal legislation on decent working conditions. we share your view that we have to consider the new forms of employment relationships. but we cannot turn back the clock. we also need to encourage new ways of working. i believe we should not discourage one form or the other, but should ensure that a core of rights is available to everybody. pivotal to this core of rights, in my view, is that everyone should have a written contract. in this respect, as mentioned in the 2017 commission work programme, we will consult the social partners on revising the written statement directive. further, i take note of your call to ensure adequate social protection for people in all forms of employment – standard and non—standard employment relationships, and also self-employment. in fact, this message also came out from the consultation on the pillar: how to ensure that a larger number of people benefit from the coverage of social protection. this is a key question for the future of work and for the sustainability and relevance of the european social model, and that is why the commission has included in its 2017 work programme an initiative on access to social protection. i welcome your call to address the issue of work-life balance. we have already concluded the consultation of social partners, and i am pleased to inform you that we will launch a package of legislative and non-legislative measures to support working families and businesses in spring this year. our aim is to present a more holistic approach to addressing the challenges of work-life balance – not only for parents, but for other carers as well, and we will propose up-to-date solutions to meet the real needs of today’s families. i do share your concerns about poverty and the fact that we need further efforts to achieve the poverty reduction and social inclusion target of the europe 2020 strategy. in this context, your report rightly points out the importance of an adequate income for maintaining human dignity. i agree that decent living wages are important as a means of avoiding in-work poverty. we take note of your recommendation to set up wage floors in the form of a national minimum wage, as that is an issue, but – as you rightly underline – with due respect for the competence and practices of each member state. as regards reinforcing convergence, the commission, through its coordinating and facilitating role, helps member states find ways of achieving upward convergence whilst maintaining competitiveness and a high level of employment and social protection. you also call upon us to put forward a clear roadmap of concrete measures for the full practical implementation of the european pillar of social rights. here you can count on me. the pillar must be more than words, so we will chart how we move from political commitment to delivery. this is an agenda which needs to fully engage all stakeholders, in particular member states, in line with the subsidiarity principle. we are ready to play our part, but the centre of gravity of social and employment policies is, and will remain, with national and local authorities. the primary responsibility for making social rights a reality lies with national governments and social partners. the european pillar of social rights is an opportunity – we could even say an imperative – to address challenges and make the most of opportunities in the changing world of work and society in the 21st century. it is a crucial step towards a shared vision of a more social europe and a union founded on fairness. we will need the commitment of all stakeholders – european institutions, national governments and parliaments, social partners and civil society – to achieve these objectives on the ground. we count on parliament’s support to make sure that the pillar is not only an aspiration, but will become a reality for all citizens.
the committee on women's rights and gender equality has adopted a report on the situation in the european union. mr president, commissioner, i simply wanted to thank maria joão rodrigues for the work she has done on the substance, of course, but also on all the political discussions she has had on the social rights pillar. commissioner, when we have voted on this report, you will have a valuable tool at your disposal, one that is fundamental to the objective that mr juncker has set for himself, namely the triple a social dimension of the european union. the pillar of social rights concerns all citizens: children with the child guarantee, young people with the youth guarantee and the strengthening of this guarantee, workers, workers and jobseekers, in the context of their workers' rights but also social security. and, most importantly, this pillar of social rights has placed equality between men and women at the centre of its priorities. equality can be achieved through work-life balance by increasing parental leave, maternity or paternity leave, because, as we know, it is because of these situations that women are discriminated against in the labour market today. therefore, as you said, these legislative and non-legislative tools must help to combat inequalities. and the first of these inequalities, which is blatant today in europe, is that between men and women. i therefore count on you, madam commissioner, and on the whole commission, but also on the political commitment of the council, so that this pillar of social rights does not remain a dream or a utopia, but becomes a reality.
for the ppe group few quotes from commission president juncker have been repeated as often as that one sentence from his speech in october 2014. in the midst of a fragile economic recovery, he then expressed the wish for a triple a social status for europe, and in doing so he immediately put social policy on an equal footing with economic policy and gave you, madam commissioner, a huge task. you'll be filling that assignment with glee today. although youth unemployment remains a problem, the figures are falling year by year. but we can't let the reins celebrate. every young person who is unemployed at home is one too many. the semester process will now also include social indicators. and that's a good thing. you made proposals on strengthening skills and you are working very hard on a solution to tackle social dumping, something that our construction and transport sectors in flanders really need. but perhaps even more than the files i just mentioned, it is the social pillar that will shape that famous social triple a status. so expectations are very high. but you also know that the debate on the role of europe in social policy is at the same level. it is by definition a policy in which the principle of subsidiarity must be fully applied. and let us not set up a european system of what can and should be done at member state level, but we must not shirk our responsibility either. if europe can add value, then we must act. i am thinking in particular of creating a level playing field for new forms of work as opposed to existing forms of work, a european initiative which can provide the member states with the necessary backing to create justice in this area. we look forward to your proposal on the social pillar, commissioner, and i hope that this owninitiative report from parliament will be a source of inspiration for the task ahead of you.
i am absolutely in favour of a social europe, but we must dare to ask ourselves how this social europe can best be achieved. but this report is going the wrong way. first of all, it repeatedly violates the principle of subsidiarity. if we are not to alienate citizens from the union any further, social policy must be implemented as closely as possible to the citizens. the eu's added value lies mainly in coordinating measures, benchmarking and the exchange of good practice. and that's how we can achieve upward convergence. secondly, i would like to stress that social prosperity cannot be built on an economic graveyard. a competitive europe is an essential precondition for a social europe. finally, we must not be afraid of flexibility. after all, flexible working is one of the ways of getting people into or back into work. after all, work is still the best form of social protection. in addition, and this is also very important to me, it is up to the member states to provide adequate social protection in addition.
in writing. when we talk about quality job creation, we automatically think of a green and social economy. if we want to strengthen the social pillar in europe, we need to protect social rights: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted. we've known that for a long time, and we've been saying that for a long time. this report is a worthy contribution to going beyond fine words and principles. job creation and the green economy go hand in hand: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. they want social protection and flexibility. understandable, but not without the necessary social protection, job security and a good balance between work and leisure. the cooperative approach is also proving useful as a sustainable organisational model for smes. co-ownership, co-determination are ingredients for a social and solidarity economy that enables social protection of workers in smes. the report contains many of the above elements. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers against the risks of exposure to carcinogens and to the use of carcinogens in the manufacture of foodstuffs. i shall vote in favour with conviction.
in writing. i welcome the european pillar of social rights as an important initiative to achieve greater social unity and to bring our social model into the 21st century. it is an opportunity to set up concrete actions that citizens feel will benefit them. i am thinking of the right to a minimum income, a package of social rights for all workers (employed and self-employed), the right to education, a child guarantee to ensure that fewer children grow up in poverty or social exclusion. this requires not only legislative initiatives but also additional resources. in addition to the concrete initiatives, and at least as important, the social pillar must ensure that social policy is placed on an equal footing with economic and monetary policy. the social pact should be concluded in the same way as the fiscal compact, which obliges member states to balance their budgets. the social pact must not only enshrine the major principles of the social pillar in european legislation but also make it possible for member states to be obliged to take their social policies seriously. poor scores on (youth) unemployment, (child) poverty, etc. are at least as problematic as poor budget figures.
author. madam president, hosea yeimo and ismael alua, the two papuan peace activists who are the subject of our debate this morning, have indeed been released but their fate remains worrying. accused of rebellion, they now face life imprisonment. it is therefore essential that the european external action service maintains the pressure. that is precisely what we are asking for in our resolution. i would have liked our joint text to mention and demand in such a clear, precise and firm way the release of the governor of jakarta, whose fate has been mentioned. basuki tjahaja purnama, a chinese christian, is unjustly accused of blasphemy by radical islamists. madam president, the european union's legitimate good relations with indonesia - and i am not forgetting that this country was one of the first to be hit by islamist attacks - must not prevent us from continuing to be demanding on the issue of respect for human rights.
for the ecr group a look at the history of the central african republic reveals that the country and its people have suffered for decades from ethnic and religious violence, dictatorships and gross violations of human rights. the people deserve better. we therefore welcome the peaceful election of president touadera. but the situation in the car is not yet what it should be. too often we hear of rape, massacres and famine. we therefore fully support the resolution before us. we want, of course, first of all, that all those who have been guilty of violence, of violations of humanitarian law, be held to account. the government really needs to work on that. the european union is also committed to the reform of the judicial system, together with the international community. we also support the talks between the various armed groups under the auspices of the un. we also call on all international partners to honour their financial commitments so that the terrible famine can be tackled in a structural way. half the population of central africa is starving, and this is a disgrace. we can't just leave these people to their fate.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, my political group has decided not to co-sign the resolution on the car. what is proposed in this joint resolution, whether you like it or not, is to sanction the record of a democratically elected government, less than a year ago, which is trying to create a sacred union in order to build a dynamic of unity that meets the needs of peace, development and security, through permanent and inclusive dialogue. we all welcomed the efforts made by this government and the national assembly to build peace and reconciliation in a fragile and haphazard environment at the international donor conference in brussels. in the european parliament, on the sidelines of this conference, we expressed our support for president touadéra and congratulated the president of the assembly, karim meckassoua, on the broad and inclusive composition of his delegation and on the visible efforts they are making to rebuild their state. i would like to recall that car has signed the protocol on torture, adopted legislation on gender equality and accelerated legislation on the new judicial architecture provided for in the constitution. we must, of course, invest in the security sector, we know that. the state's authority over the entire territory must be restored to be able to fight against impunity. but the most urgent problem at the moment is the implementation of transitional justice, which is planned. i would point out that the selection procedure for international magistrates for the special criminal court has just been launched at the united nations. so instead of voting for a text that sends a negative signal to the international community just one week before the european commission and the central african authorities meet in bangui to set up the aid coordination structure, we would be well advised to invite president touadéra and the president of the national assembly here in the european parliament to debate with us.
- a writer. as a former mandate of my member state, burundi naturally interests me. belgium bears a historic responsibility and it therefore strikes me that under president nkurunziza the country is slipping further and further towards an increasingly authoritarian state. the youth wing of his political party is guilty of rape, extortion and intimidation. human rights activists like marie-claudette kwizera disappear and any form of opposition is suppressed. i therefore support this resolution which calls on the african union, the un security council and our high representative of the european union to take further action against the regime and which draws attention to the plight of refugees. our earlier efforts have already brought a glimmer of hope. for example, seven days after our previous resolution was voted, journalist bob rugurika was released on bail. i am also glad that the belgian government has taken pierre claver mbonimpa in for treatment after a brutal attack on him in bujumbura. today he continues his fight for human rights in burundi from belgium. with this in mind, let us continue our work for burundi and keep the pressure on the regime high.
madam president, burundi, at the time of nkurunziza's arrival and even before his arrival, was in a dramatic situation. president nkurunziza has also announced that he may seek a fourth term. the third is not satisfying him and the fact that he has plunged his country into instability and uncertainty is not satisfying him either. he'd like to continue on for a fourth term. it is taking burundi out of the international court of justice, plunging his country into poverty and instability and risking the explosion of an ethnic approach within burundi. today, our relationship with him is in serious trouble. we know that there are negotiations, mediations with the burundian government. we ask that sanctions against this government be allowed to continue. we ask that there should also be targeted sanctions and we ask that the burundian authorities should do their job. a dialogue could be established, but in the present circumstances, in the absence of democracy, in view of the fact that journalists, lawyers and all those who speak out against burundi can no longer speak, it has become impossible for us europeans to continue to dialogue with that country.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i will start from where mr pittella ended his intervention and also from where mr kamall started. i do not understand something in your intervention, mr kamall. first of all you say, yes, it is not done, and then you say two phrases later that we have to accept it because he is elected. no, it is not because he is elected that he can go against human values and the values of the united states of america. even an elected president with a majority – and he has no majority of the popular vote in the us – has to listen to the american constitution, has to listen to the american judiciary. that is the starting point of my intervention. in fact, some people are saying in the us that it helps security. that is nonsense. you have given the figures. since 1975, all terrorists in the us came from three countries – egypt, saudi arabia and lebanon. none of them is on the list of seven countries and nobody came from those countries since 1975 as a terrorist. so it is pure discrimination, and pure discrimination in a broader approach, because it is not only about this religious ban. it is about fuelling populism and nationalism – that is what the trump administration is doing for the moment, and that is not only by appointing mr farage as his spokesman here in the plenary, but it is also by having the idea to designate malloch as the ambassador and, more importantly, and let’s be aware of this, steve bannon, a member now of the national security council of the united states of america and a man who is openly saying that we want a worldwide right-wing movement to get rid of the european union, to get done with the european union, and they are sitting here. it is our fifth column, because mr farage is working with mr bannon. he sees him on a regular basis to effect one thing, which is to see how the european union can be destroyed in the coming years. not thinking, dear colleagues, of one thing, which is that it is a big risk to bid on nationalism and populism in europe. we have had it already in the past. we have had it already in the 20th century. people would say that nationalism and populism was the solution for our continent and they created the most gross atrocities we have ever seen: 20 million deaths, mr farage, is what nationalism has cost in europe. there is no family in the european union which does not have a grandfather or a grandmother or a son or a daughter who was a victim of that nationalism and of that populism. and that is the reason why we created the european union – to overcome that, to make a continent of peace. normally an american president – take roosevelt, for example – wants to be the leader of the free world, and now i see an american president who wants to be the leader in the fight against the free world, against solidarity, and against tolerance. i think it is an existential moment for the european union. we can only take one decision. we have the autocrat putin who wants to defy europe. we have president trump, who has a populist nationalist view and wants to disintegrate us. we have the threat from the radical islamists in the south and we have a bunch of people here who want to destroy within the european union. we can do one thing and that is unite, fight back as the european union, and i hope in valletta it will not only be the letter – and i support the letter of president tusk on his behalf – that will be the conclusion. i hope for once that all european leaders have the courage to stand up together with the european parliament and fight back against this bunch of nationalists and populists who want to destroy us. (applause)
commissioner, let me begin by thanking you for all the proposals that have been put forward. i've done it before, but i'm doing it with a lot of conviction. you have worked hard on this together with your colleagues, but you are doing so in a transparent, open way, together with parliament and with the stakeholders, and that is very much appreciated by our group. we had a debate before on the ban on muslims entering the united states and i found the replies of the group chairmen very similar on one point. we are going to have a european union that is more than ever there, that offers a solution with confidence, said the other vice-president of the commission, mrs mogherini. and we must do the same in this dossier, because we must not forget that on the other side of the ocean there is also a negative wind when it comes to climate and energy, and so we need our own, self-assured policy. we must be resolute in this regard and this group will support and strengthen all the proposals you put forward. you know our ambitions to set higher targets for energy efficiency and renewable energy, targets which are also binding. that's worked in the past. why should that not be the case in the future? and finally, something we often forget, but the commissioner knows that: governance. you need very good and strong european-driven governance and we will also be putting forward strengthened proposals on that together with the other groups.
we had an interesting debate last week in the itre committee on how we should approach the energy union. i would like to emphasize three points here today. the first point is that we must take account of the affordability of the proposals put forward. for example, in my country alone, there is a 4.38 billion euro bill waiting to be paid to adapt our energy system to the new targets by 2030, and that is not even taking into account the cost of efficiency. secondly, it is also important to make it attractive to invest in energy efficiency. to this end, it should be possible to adapt eurostat's accounting rules to spread energy efficiency investments over different financial years, if necessary. the third element is what the commission calls smart financing, which means that financial institutions must also be involved in order to make investing more financially attractive.
congo was eliminated in the final round of the africa cup last sunday, much to the chagrin of the football-mad congolese. but the people have other concerns, of course. the country has been out of the championship of democratic countries for much longer. and unlike football, where defeat always has multiple causes, the reason for the congolese state's failure lies with its leaders. coach kabila, to use football terms again, is irresponsibly clinging to power and history teaches us that no solution can ever be found with a leader who has lost the trust of his own people and is trampling on the foundations of the constitution and democracy. an agreement was reached with the bishops' conference. in anticipation of elections, the government must be led by the opposition. but kabila has already broken the agreement and refused to appoint the prime minister appointed by tshisekedi. however, kabila is not the solution to the problem, he is the cause. stability and calm can only return when he disappears from the political scene and makes way. it's just a question of whether that happens. i therefore repeat my urgent question: will the eu implement effective sanctions against kabila and his entourage?
i'm glad we're here today to debate genital mutilation. europe must not turn its head away from this problem. it is a form of violence against women which does not only occur outside our european borders. it has already been mentioned here, and research shows that it is unfortunately also found in many european member states, including here in belgium itself. 2017 is the european year for the elimination of violence against women and if we really want to make a difference, we must also make an effort for the girls and women who are victims of fgm. it's about people who even fled their country for this. we also need better care for girls and women who have been the victims of genital mutilation and i am therefore very pleased that my proposal for a pilot project for clitoral reconstruction for women who have been the victims of genital mutilation will receive european funding this year. so thank you for that.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, in the latest eurobarometer survey on food, the presence of pesticide residues in fruit, vegetables and cereals appears as the main concern of european citizens; the figures speak for themselves, with, for example, 95% distrust in greece, 85% in italy and 72% in belgium, to name just a few countries. we must of course respond to this growing concern in europe about the use of chemical pesticides and the risks they pose to health and the environment. it is time, indeed urgent, to offer farmers, amateurs and sunday gardeners, a wider choice. this is, in essence, the message we are sending with our resolution on low-risk pesticides, whether they are of microbial, plant or animal origin. there is no reason, and this has been said by mr poc, in particular, that only six biologically active substances classified as low risk should be authorised in the european union. by comparison, there are currently over 300 in the world - mostly in the united states and japan. we stress in our text several points to unblock this situation, particularly with regard to the legal framework. our request is clear: first, that the commission submit a legislative proposal to us to set up an accelerated procedure for the approval of biopesticides before the end of 2018 and thus make a more varied offer available to farmers who choose sustainable; secondly, and for amateur gardeners this time, but it's also important, make biopesticides the preferred option alongside other non-chemical methods. this possibility - the right to choose which i have mentioned - does not, in our view, mean more pesticides, quite the contrary. i personally regret that to date only denmark and france - madam president, i conclude - have committed themselves to a genuine reduction plan with a clear timetable and targets.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the use of conventional pesticides is not restricted to the use of pesticides. therefore, there is a need for a transition towards greening of pesticide use; hence this debate today: promoting the use and development of low-risk biological pesticides. we have put forward six specific demands with our colleagues and i should like to hear the commissioner's reaction to them in a more specific way. firstly, there is a need to increase the use of pesticides of biological origin. they must be more widely available. secondly, there is a need for more research and development, because they can indeed be an alternative to conventional products. the standing committee on plants, animals, food and feed should actually adopt criteria for low-risk active substances as a matter of urgency. thirdly, the commission should actually speed up the authorization, assessment and registration of such low-risk plant protection products together with the member states. fourthly, member states should include the use of these low-risk biological pesticides in their action plans. that's not happening enough. fifthly, the refit programme which will assess the pesticide regulation must not affect food safety and public health. finally, commissioner, we ask you to come forward with a legislative proposal before 2018 to speed up the authorisation of these products. i hope you can agree with that.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to wish the rapporteur, ian duncan, a happy birthday and to congratulate him on accomplishing an extremely complicated effort with a combination of intelligence, flair and contagious scottish humour. thank you very much for that, mr duncan. this reform is key in terms of our commitment to the implementation of the paris agreement. it gives incentives to stakeholders from industry and the power sector, and it supports the best performers – those performers that strive for innovative and sustainable production techniques. but, at the same time, the new emissions trading system (ets) and, in particular, the additions made during the vote by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, give guarantees to those sectors that are confronted with fierce international competition. currently, a lot of attention is focused on the so-called carbon adjustment mechanism and, in particular, the fact that it will be targeted on particular sectors such as lime and cement. you will not be astonished if we say that we are not in favour of this particular proposal for several reasons. one reason is that it would be damaging for those cement and lime producers which export to countries outside the european union. what is worse is that it would be implemented by means of a delegated act. for every true member of this parliament, i think that should be a no-go. therefore we propose to support the proposal adopted by the committee on industry, research and energy, which is moderate and could be acceptable to all. let us not forget that the cement sector continues to fall under the general system, meaning that the allowances will be attributed only to the 10% of best performers. so, as the commissioner has said, the momentum is there to find a broad majority for a robust and balanced ets. let us choose the moderate option. let us not jeopardise this proposal by focusing on one particular sector. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – as i made clear at the beginning of my speech, this is about implementing the paris agreement – and not just the building sector, the transportation sector and the agricultural sector but also, of course, industry and the power sector have to implement what we agreed in paris. therefore, i must mention again that there is a lot of ambition in this proposal: what the commission has proposed, the linear reduction factor of 2.2%, is much more ambitious than what we have now. and do not forget the market stability reserve (msr). i was a rapporteur on the msr a few months ago, and the level of ambition now contained in this proposal is much higher than what we proposed a few months or a year ago, even if the msr is not yet operational. supporting that ambition is a very important aspect of this.
mr president, to reduce co2 emissions substantially, we need an emissions trading system that is efficient, balanced and innovative. if we are to put the paris agreement into practice, the carbon market must work better and more efficiently. for example, we need to encourage a more robust price for co2 climate-friendly investments and create an important balance in this process. the reform must protect the climate and jobs, and that is essential. we can't let winners turn into losers. when companies leave europe for third countries where climate regulations are less strict, we lose twice: the jobs are gone and we're doing nothing for the climate. the strong focus on innovation is also crucial. a low-carbon europe is not only achieved through a workable system of emission allowances, but also requires innovative solutions. our policy choices must be sustainable, efficient and effective, so that they can last for decades. we want to be at the front of the pack with flanders and europe without having a flat tyre. this reform is a step in the right direction and i support it.
on behalf of the group of the european right mr president, i should like to speak specifically about banks tonight. in 2008-09, the european commission adopted special state aid rules to allow member states to bail out their banks. this european parliament has been asking for six years now for a complete end to this temporary state aid. that is also the logic of the new rules of the banking union, that in the future we will opt for bail-ins instead of bail-outs. because what do we see in italy today? that the rules were first circumvented and now they're even just ignored. and that creates a lot of anger in the population, a lot of anger about these bank bailouts. but what do we see? that in the past, huge profits were made and went to the rich bankers, while the losses had to be borne by the ordinary people, by the taxpayers, and that can no longer be. look, i have no problem with people working hard to earn a good sandwich, but then they have to take the risks and the losses. more responsibility, that's what we need. i would also ask the commissioner to continue to do a good job of this.
i'm the reporter. madam president, the fourth world conference on women, held in beijing in 1995, marked a real and important turning point in the global agenda for equality between women and men. the declaration and programme adopted at the time - the programme of action for the empowerment of women - was considered the main global policy document on gender equality more than 20 years ago. the beijing +20 session in 2015 welcomed the progress made in this regard through this global instrument, but called on un member states to carry out assessments and take further action to accelerate the implementation of these equality actions. and yet today, in 2017, we see that gender equality and women's rights are being challenged again. policies are being developed around the world to undermine the objectives that not only europe but also the united nations should support in terms of equality between men and women. in response to these regressions, citizen resistance movements are organizing around the world. at the 61st session of the commission on the status of women at the united nations, we, the european parliament, are therefore asking that the council be able to take stock of its role within the international community in order to act in favour of equality between men and women, as it has always done at european level. we call for this commitment to range from promoting education to combating violence against women, and in particular to adopting the istanbul convention, ensuring universal access to sexual and reproductive healthcare and reproductive rights, and access to sexual and reproductive education. women's participation in the labour market, without discrimination, and in political and civic life are also essential to their empowerment. ladies and gentlemen, at this 61st session, we cannot but condemn the trump administration's decision to cut off funding to ngos, as my colleague corazza bildt said, which practice or recommend family planning services or access to abortion, even in countries where it is accepted. this is a real violation of women's rights, and it will have a disastrous impact on hiv programmes, on the mental health mentioned earlier, on the health of children. all this will have repercussions for the whole world. ladies and gentlemen, we have had the opportunity to speak out and condemn the trump administration when it promotes economic protectionism. when it comes to the economy, everybody stands up and says, "but what's going on in the united states?" but when it comes to human rights and women's rights, we should be silent. no, ladies and gentlemen! here again, when it comes to human rights, we must say that what this administration is doing today is not acceptable. we must tell the united nations and europe that it must be at the forefront of this fight, simply because europe must show that it is a pillar guaranteeing fundamental rights and that these fundamental rights, which are human rights, must not forget the half of humanity that are women. i therefore urge you to support this proposal for a recommendation to the council so that this image of a europe which guarantees fundamental rights can be taken to the world level.
rapporteur. – mr president, in a few weeks’ time we will all be going to italy for the 60th anniversary of the treaty of rome, often described as a big success and a big leap forward. in fact it was the outcome, dear colleagues, of nearly 10 years of negotiations and debates between the leaders of most of the western european states, leaders who at that time, as we all know, wanted to build up a united europe after the atrocities of the second world war, and it started, as we know, with the historic speech by winston churchill at the university of zurich in 1946. a year later, in 1947, at the albert hall in london, churchill, the british bulldog, made it very clear what he wanted. he said, and i quote him: ‘i present the idea of a united europe in which our country, britain, will play a decisive part as a member of the european family’. moreover, churchill – and it’s good to remember this – unlike the prime minister at that time, clement attlee, even wanted britain to participate in the european steel and coal community, but he lost the vote in the british parliament by 309 votes to 296, a small difference, i would say. indeed, dear colleagues, it is good to remember that at that time the tories were openly pro-european. and now, more than 60 years later, we think that with these reports the european union needs profound reform again: let’s face it, our union is in crisis. our european union does not have a lot of friends at home, and certainly not abroad; the union does not deliver any more. it is always too little, too late, and that, in my opinion, is the reason why many people and many citizens are angry in europe. they are not against europe. they are against a union that does not deliver the right results, that is not capable, for example, of finding the right answers to the refugee crisis, responding to migration, or breaking down the economic stagnation after the financial crisis of 2008. people are not against europe. they want more europe to face these challenges, but they are critical, it is true, of the way that the european union works today. and that is the reason for these three reports. brexit, trump, putin – i think that there are reasons enough to reform our european union and to do it in a very profound way. that is the reason for these three reports, which you have to see together as one package. we want to do three things. first of all, we want to create a more efficient union, for example by slimming down the commission, ending europe à la carte, and creating a single seat for the european parliament. we also want to make the union more democratic by reforming the european elections, expanding the process centring on lead candidates, and reforming and turning the european council into what we call a council of states, alongside the european parliament, in which we serve as the representatives of the citizens. and furthermore we want a stronger union, better protection for civil liberties in the union, a union including a euro zone with a government, a fiscal capacity, a finance minister, own resources, a convergence court, and conditionality. i think that these reports give a good blueprint of what is necessary for the future and that is not a battle between the european union on the one hand and the nation-states on the other. no, europe needs both. in this report we are also proposing a green card, for example, for the national parliaments, along with a right of initiative for this european parliament and for the european council. once these reports are adopted, on thursday, i hope, what is the way forward? i think that there is one way forward and that is to propose to the commission, mr vice-president, and also to the european council, that we start an interinstitutional reflection exercise, which is something that we can do better together. we have good experience with the monti report on own resources. why not do the same again? and that is not a luxury, dear colleagues: this report is an absolute necessity.
the european union is an artificial construct, an artificial construct. it has not grown naturally from the population or at least very partially. it is a concept of an elite of what are called founding fathers here, who with a lot of propaganda and with some treaties try to make the thing alive. in such an unnatural construction there are of course unnatural effects, and one of the most unnatural effects is the fact that here in this parliament the main tune is the federal music, that one finds here eurofanatism, which is not really normal. normally, parliament should be the driving force behind the popular resistance to this european construction, the resistance which is becoming increasingly visible in the population through referendums, election results and so on. the eu's critical mass should be heard here, and it is heard here less than ever. this morning is a good example of that. here the opposite effect occurs. here is a large majority who follow the federal music, which always follows the same schedule. there are problems, so there must be more european union, and if there are good effects, there must also be more european union. that is the timetable, and it is in full swing here today, including this morning, again. which brings us to those two records. the first report could still be called somewhat logical. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. it is logical, because the treaties are what they are, but it is at least for me, and as an eu critic, a reminder of the reasons why we fought the lisbon treaty so fiercely at the time. if you see what you can do with it and how far you can go with it, then we know now and today and thanks to this report why. and then there is verhofstadt, i have known him for 30 years, he wants to expand further, he wants to further suffocate us socially, economically and militarily in that european union. back when he was young, his arrogance was called a form of enthusiasm and voluntarism. we can only conclude that in the present context what he brings here is a form of eurofanatism which is harmful to european cooperation. we, the deplorables, will reject both reports.
"blue card" question. what is it? mr president, you say that these reports do not take account of the citizen. i would like to remind you that the eurobarometer report makes it very clear that europeans want to invest more in european defence for our security, to make more use of a european approach to asylum and migration. do you agree with me that the things that are in the reports do take account of what the european citizens want? a genuine european defence, a genuine european approach to asylum and migration. so if we are now saying that these reports are not in line with the wishes of the european people, i think we should go through them together and i should point out to you the need for these reports to set out the vision of where europe should go.
what should be the priority of the european union, mr president? that seems obvious to me. we need to make sure that there's more security. we need to control migration and we need to provide jobs, jobs, jobs. we should be spending all our time on it. all our time on security, on migration, on jobs. but what do we see today? that in addition to these points there are also a number of other topics being debated that people are not waiting for. do you really think people are waiting for european taxes? do you really think that people want to give more power to this european commission and weaken the member states? do you really think that the people want to use flemish tax money to pay back debts in southern europe? i want to make a call today, a sincere call. let us focus solely on that essence. let us go for a european union that provides more security, that controls migration and that is about jobs, jobs and jobs, and all the rest should be frozen.
rapporteur. – mr president, i will be very brief. first of all, i think that the commission could react. fiscal capacity for the euro area has been on the table for two years now and then the commission comes and says that they have to examine it. but that is another point. i have heard three fundamental criticisms. the first is that this is too institutional, then that you are creating more – and a bigger – europe and people do not want that, and that it is too visionary. those are the three criticisms that i have heard this morning. firstly, on institutions, it is not the case that we produce a report on institutions because we like institutions and want to create them. no, we do this because they are the only way to tackle the problems we are facing today. we have been talking about, for example, cleaning up the banks. you need funds to clean up these banks at the european level. on refugee flows, you need a border and coast guard to tackle that problem. in the future, on terrorist threats, you will need an investigation and intelligence capacity at european level. so we are pleading for a number of institutional reforms, not because we like institutions, but because this is the only way to tackle at a european level the challenges we are facing today. the second thing is that this is only a bigger europe. no, in the report it is about a smaller commission, and less regulation but more policies – that is what we need – and also social policies and tax policies. and then, finally, it is too visionary. well i think that in europe we need a vision and a project again. it is only when we show the way forward and a vision for the future, rather than just concentrating on day-to-day politics, that people and citizens can again be converted to the new european ideals. for the rest, i am very encouraged that a big majority of the house has supported the report instead of the extremes on the left and the right.
i would like to address mrs mogherini, who unfortunately cannot be here today. i would like to congratulate her on the statement she made last week. her message was strong and clear. the regularization legislation adopted by the israeli parliament on 6 february must be condemned. we're the ones who did this. it is a dangerous step in the wrong direction and it goes beyond the rules of international law. but more is needed. the latest developments show very clearly that words are not enough. in april 2003, the quartet presented its roadmap for peace. today, almost 14 years later, the two-state solution is further away than ever. in recent months, israeli settlement expansion, the demolition of palestinian homes and european-funded projects have taken on alarming proportions. human rights organisations are systematically silenced. only by taking concrete measures can we change this. we must make it clear that international law must be respected by both sides. if this does not happen, peace and a two-state solution will become a complete utopia. i would like to put a few very specific questions to you. in view of the situation, how do you intend to further deepen bilateral relations with israel, and in particular to shape the partnership agreements? secondly, what consequences will you attach to the one-state reality? thirdly, what will be the concrete steps to further refine the policy of differentiation between israel and the occupied palestinian territory? finally, a question which i have asked here on several occasions: how far have we come in terms of repayment of the european projects which have been destroyed?
mr president, the settlement law and the decision to expand it - more than 6,000 new homes in january 2017 alone - are simply another israeli annexation of palestinian territory. the statements and condemnations have shown their limits towards the israeli government. the union must now act. are we going to wait for the total annexation of the west bank before we can act? in the context of the association agreement, which many of my colleagues have mentioned, it is quite possible to take concrete measures. article 2 of the eu-israel agreement says, and i quote: 'relations between the european union and israel shall be based on respect for human rights and democratic principles'. it can therefore be said that article 2 is simply not being respected, which should make it possible to question this association agreement or even to make it conditional on further discussions.
i would like to thank the rapporteur and my colleagues for the good cooperation. we have a good balance and this is supported by the european commission's report. some points that are important to us: firstly, we must be clear about economic and budgetary policy. we need stability, especially in the current economic and political climate. it is therefore important that the rules are not only on paper but also respected and enforced. this is essential for the confidence of businesses and investors and for the confidence of citizens in europe. secondly, we reiterate the importance of reforms and the modernisation of economies. we ask member states to follow up the country-specific recommendations more closely. the potential for economic growth, innovation and investment is still too limited. the single market is not yet complete and the rules are not applied in the same way everywhere. our companies are suffering. they must have access to risk capital. we need to continue to invest in research and development, education and health care to be more competitive in the world. my last point concerns compromise x, which just failed at econ yesterday. this compromise adds a new element to the report. it calls for greater attention to the sustainability of budgets. we often see that there is a conflict between short-term and long-term political objectives. i think that the passing of debts on to the next generation for short-term political reasons is not only economically irresponsible but also ethically irresponsible. to counteract this, we ask the commission to develop an indicator to measure the impact of the budget on future generations. we hope that this transparency will help us to make better budgetary decisions, including for our children and grandchildren. the commission has already proposed that the compromise be put to the vote in plenary by a majority vote.
mr president, the european semester is a mechanism for coordinating economic policies. it would be a grave mistake to forget the social aspect. hence the importance of having introduced a more qualitative approach to employment into the semester. i am particularly grateful to the rapporteur, mrs toom, for including social concerns in her report, such as the strengthening of the youth guarantee, the importance of education policies, support for micro-enterprises, ensuring the sustainability of social security systems and the participation of the social partners in the semester. but it seems to us, at s&d level, that there are essential points missing from this report. that is why we are proposing amendments for tomorrow's plenary session, for example on the question of trade union law and collective bargaining, which guarantee better social cohesion in the field of work, a decent minimum wage, the fight against the wage gap, the quality of employment and access to a public pension system that is dignified and sustainable, but not only sustainable in terms of longevity, but also in other areas of the working world. we also want to insist on reform plans based on solidarity, integration and social justice, which protect the most vulnerable and raise the standard of living for all. i am convinced that these reasonable proposals for improvements will be heard by a large number of people in the plenary tomorrow, so that we can take a step forward for the well-being of all european citizens.
we note that a sustained three-pronged policy of investment, structural reform and sound public finances is beginning to bear fruit. despite all the critics, everyone has to admit that the efsi fund works. the objective was to inject an additional 315 billion in investment into our economy by mid-2018, and according to recent evaluations, the commission is well on track to achieve that result. the belgian economy, with an output of 2.9 billion, is ranked seventh in the european ranking. secondly, however, structural reforms are also being implemented. the member states themselves do learn from each other's good examples, so that labour market reforms ensure quality job creation. the figures are right there, too. in the third quarter of 2016, as many as 2,8 million additional fixed contracts were added. that's six times the number of temporary jobs. quality jobs provide protection, not just because they earn money, but because they also provide social protection. an adequate social system empowers countries and their citizens in times of economic downturn and that is why i look forward to the proposal for a european social pillar. it's an on-again, off-again story, though. the strict path of the stability and growth pact must not be abandoned. let's look at the national debt, for example. the european union as a whole is fortunately in decline, but belgium is lagging behind with a public debt of 107 per cent of our gdp. a sword of damocles hangs over the future generations. it is therefore high time that my country too took up its responsibilities and put a debt brake in place.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial system is not undermined by the failure of the european union to meet its obligations under the treaty. how we can put an end to this is a question we have to deal with here in the european union. how can we break this bond? we have put in place a whole series of regulations to make our banks safer, but our work is far from over. the european central bank is now pursuing a monetary policy which is making our financial system once again more insecure. free money makes people look for higher returns and therefore also look for more risks. on the other hand, we see that the italian banks have been in trouble for years, that they are almost drowning and that we have to keep them afloat day after day. all of which points to that old disease of the european union: if we have rules, they are circumvented too much, they are not respected enough, they are not applied well enough. and today we're seeing that again. we must break this spiral. we must break these bad habits. we must also put an end to state aid to the banks. we are taking another big step forward here.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety recommends, by a large majority, that ceta be adopted. as rapporteur, i tried to evaluate ceta in a fair but critical way. i took as a starting point our resolution of april 2015 on ttip. and in my view, ceta fails to meet four conditions. one, there is no explicit reference to the precautionary principle. secondly, regulatory cooperation, while voluntary, is not limited to specific sectors where the eu and canada have an equal level of protection. thirdly, ceta contains provisions on public and social services which affect the discretion of member states. fourth, ceta contains provisions which undermine our long-term gmo legislation. in addition, there is the ics arbitration mechanism, which provides a parallel jurisdiction for foreign investors, undermining the sovereignty of member states. i also expressed my concern as rapporteur about the provisions on chemicals legislation, the negative list on public and social services, the undermining of standards on pesticide residues, the regulations on endocrine disruptors, the threat of the rich-to-poor approach to food safety and the harmful provisions affecting our climate and energy policies. the vast majority of colleagues in the envi committee were not listening to this, despite the objections of millions of citizens. i therefore recommend that you, as rapporteur, approve ceta, although i may be voting against it myself.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating commissioner malmström on her extraordinary patience, remarkable competence and, above all, her willingness to deal with the often unfair and untrue statements she has made. because, after all, will ceta force us to eat chlorinated chicken, hormone-treated beef, gmo's or dismantle our public services? of course not! what is not possible today will not be possible tomorrow. we will remain free to further strengthen our quality standards and develop our public services. are we giving multinationals an undue weight that will harm our legal system? of course not! the desire to establish a new international court only strengthens our capacity to enforce the rules globally and to inspire stricter ones if we wish. ladies and gentlemen, if we cannot sign an agreement with canada, with whom can we sign one? who can honestly believe that a country of 35 million people, whose democratic performance and social and environmental protection often exceeds the standards of many european states, could deviate from the economic, social and political model of the world's leading economic power? those who oppose this agreement and abuse the good faith of citizens deny the social, human and economic progress of free trade, that is the truth. in fact, it is an ideological block, nothing more!
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the caricature that there are only two schools of thought in international trade - the protectionist school, advocated by the populists, and the ultra-liberal school, shared by a large majority of this parliament - is intolerable. i would even say that this bipolar conception is suicidal for europe today. europe can do better, europe deserves better. at a time when everyone is wondering about their future and when the breakdown of confidence in the political and economic system is at its peak, we in this house are going to sign an agreement. we're going to vote a "business as usual" deal; an agreement that gives more rights to multinationals; an agreement that weakens public services, farmers, smes and the least exporting countries; an agreement that puts investor rights above social and environmental rights; a covenant that is not a new generation covenant, but a covenant of the past. that is why i shall vote against it.
in writing. ceta as it stands is not acceptable, as it is a new generation agreement aimed at harmonising standards. but it does not guarantee that these will be raised. these standards are essential and deeply cultural. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. imagine what the impact could be on food or social requirements, if the safeguards were not clearly established. today, the european union is negotiating major trade agreements that consider trade to be the alpha and omega of development, without first defining its positioning from an economic, social and environmental point of view. the objective behind these types of agreements is cooperation and regulatory convergence to remove non-tariff barriers to trade, but without first addressing the issue of differences in regulations and public aid, the european union runs the risk of unfair competition between canadians and europeans. these are among the reasons why i am voting against ceta today.
"blue card" question. what is it? i would like to point out something to the honourable member. you say here: we cannot accept guy verhofstadt's crazy idea of a european army. i would like to say that the eurobarometer is a survey of the members of the european parliament, of all the citizens of europe, and that it shows very clearly that 80 per cent of our citizens want europe to be a european defence. so it's not that crazy. i would also point out that if you look at the defence expenditure of the 28 member states, you will find that we spend half of america at a return of only 15 per cent. may i ask you a question ? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is not in favour of saving so that we can pool all these resources and produce better output, thus better protecting our european citizens?
tomorrow the european parliament will normally adopt a new anti-terrorism directive. the aim is to arrive at common definitions of terrorist offences, to which minimum penalties will be linked. the terrorist motive is now considered an aggravating circumstance. for example, online hate speech by is sympathizers will now have to be prosecuted across the eu and be taken offline. also prohibited are hacking of critical infrastructure, travel and recruitment for terrorist motives. at the same time, there is attention for the victims. the directive requires member states to take concrete measures to provide better medical, psychological and legal assistance to victims of terrorism and/or their families. efficient assistance, swift legal settlement of claims for damages and the elimination of the administrative agony of being recognised as a victim of terrorism, that is the aim. after the attacks in brussels on 22 march last year, it became clear that there was still a lot of room for improvement in this area in my country too. that is why the n-va is satisfied with the proposal.
in writing. strengthening european cooperation in the fight against terrorism is a top priority. the new eu directive will strengthen the common approach to terrorism and syrian fighters in the member states. with these measures we are taking a crucial step towards much closer and more efficient cooperation between national intelligence services. they will automatically exchange information with each other when detecting terrorist activities and share information on suspected and convicted terrorists with europol. that is the only way to prevent terrorist acts and to deal with the terrorist threat. the commission is also proposing to introduce a system of checks at the external borders of the union. that is of course in the interest of all europeans. it is a crucial intervention to keep our internal borders open, to protect schengen. it is a key task for the eu, which we must and will now put into practice.
on behalf of the group of the european right with this agreement we have reached with the council, we will now be able to carry out extensive screening of all eu citizens, including returning syrian fighters with belgian passports. this is not a day too soon. today, there is only a minimal legal check on travellers with an eu passport who land at a european airport from outside schengen. this will soon be a thing of the past, because thanks to the n-va, the rules are now being tightened. soon all travelers will be subjected to systematic scrutiny. an excellent case for the safety of our citizens. in concrete terms, the schengen border control system, which defines the practical implementation of controls at the european external borders, is being adapted. this will help to determine more quickly whether travellers seeking to enter europe are being searched by police or intelligence services and whether their passports are forged or stolen. instead of travelling further, criminals are arrested immediately thanks to the new rules. we are therefore committed to further strengthening our external borders.
madam president, commissioner, as a democrat from the alde group, i am in full support of the adoption of this regulation, which will oblige the member states to carry out systematic checks on all persons, citizens or nationals of third countries, who cross the external border. why would you do that? because we know that many of the perpetrators of the attacks which have bloodied our countries were trained abroad and returned across the external border. because we know that there are still some 2 500 european fighters in syria, iraq and libya and that as daesh retreats, many of them will return, necessarily across the external border. in these circumstances, it is imperative to carry out systematic checks to reduce the risk of attacks. that said, i would like to stress that the obligatory corollary of these systematic checks is that member states must communicate the information they hold on terrorism suspects so that this information is available to border guards. if not, the increased controls will be a needless and costly scarecrow and a media myth.
at present, information should only be shared in exceptional cases. but given the changed security situation, the question is whether the exchange of information between member states on terrorism and serious crime should remain free of obligations. my party is in favour of a thorough exchange of information because it promotes security. we were just talking about the border control regulation, which introduces systematic checks on everyone entering or leaving the european union, including through international airports. the aim is to screen both eu and non-eu citizens by consulting eu databases such as the sis and international databases such as the sltd system. it goes without saying that these databases should contain relevant data. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the uniform definitions of terrorist offences should also facilitate this. at the same time, we understand that intelligence services may exchange just less information if they are forced to share everything with countries they do not fully trust. the fact that the council is now considering a directive for a stricter legal framework for the exchange of information and intelligence between law enforcement agencies at union level is already an interesting option. it is really important to find a balanced and widely accepted solution.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, minister, commissioner, we all agree that the exchange of information is essential. commissioner, i am not going to talk about technical matters today. you've taught us a lesson, so i won't venture that far. i do not dispute the progress made in recent years in the exchange of information, but, mr president-in-office, this is the least we can do after the events we have seen. the increase in the number of jobs is a clear indication of how insufficient this was in the past. the need therefore remains the same and the limited progress made is not sufficient. i also take note of what the commissioner said and welcome it with regard to the creation of the high level group on interoperability. it is nevertheless extraordinary, commissioner, that it took ten or twelve information collection systems at european level, covering very different subjects, to be set up before there was any real concern, in a systematic way, about their interoperability. it's not a criticism, you're not responsible. i would also like to warmly welcome the commission's proposal to make it compulsory to report persons suspected of terrorism in the schengen information system. but that is not enough, everyone agrees. this obligation concerns only one database, the sis, and one category of suspected persons, terrorists. am i wrong, commissioner? on the other hand, the basis on which law enforcement agencies still operate in the field of information is pre-lisbon. we are still in the pre-lisbon. however, the transitional period for actions in the field of information exchange, as set out in protocol 36 of the treaties of the european union, expired on 1 december 2014, commissioner, and it is provided in the declaration 50 attached thereto that the european parliament, the council and the commission will seek to adopt legal acts amending or replacing union acts which were adopted before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. so, commissioner, when is this proposal?
in writing. driverless cars, industrial automation, robots that assist people, sex robots, etc.: robotics has become an important part of our daily lives. today we are voting for a european framework on robotics rules. this is the first european and probably world-wide attempt to officially move robotics from science fiction to reality. the theme is exciting, but it should not make us forget the issues of employment and the fight against inequality. anticipating change is the best way to manage it. the employment issue must be placed at the centre of priorities to defend workers' rights and accompany them in these changes as well as the ways of financing social impacts. we also ask that the issue of inequality be dealt with and highlighted in this text. indeed, without guidance, the development of robotics could result in a significant concentration of wealth and power in the hands of a minority. europe has a role to play in this respect too.
a writer. madam president, i would like to congratulate mrs evelyn and myself on your election as vice-president, ladies and gentlemen. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm going to ask you two simple questions tonight, and i think you'd actually like to answer those simple questions with no. but i would like to ask the first question: is this german toll for cars in line with eu law? i would also like to quote a well-known expert on these matters who said that a road fee is only in line with eu law if it does not discriminate on grounds of nationality. that is not what i am saying, that is what you said, commissioner bulc, at the beginning of the infringement procedure in june 2015. let us therefore proceed from this principle. has this discrimination been eliminated by the so-called agreement? not in my opinion. as a result, eu foreigners are still more affected than german nationals. in other words, a belgian driver with a euro 6 car pays the toll, but a german driver does not. the answer to the first question, 'is the new german toll model in line with eu law?' is therefore 'no'. i come now to the second question: is this toll a symbol of good european cooperation? again, the answer is no, it is not. there is currently no european toll system. this toll is contrary to the fundamental principles of our union, which you and the commission must protect. we must not have the impression that our european partners are financing german roads at the expense of their neighbours. because what would be the consequence? the long-term consequence would be to undermine the basic principles of the internal market and of european coexistence. that is why this toll must have no place in europe, especially in our time when so many people are doubting the eu. mrs. bulc, you're in charge of this. the proceedings are currently on hold. i therefore urge you to continue the infringement procedure, otherwise member states will sue. and don 't doubt that , either . this idea is gaining more and more support, because it is not just a question of tolls, but of the fundamental principles of our european union.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. what does the european union need more than ever? a simple question, a simple answer: yes the eu needs success stories! but we don't have to invent these success stories or artificially market them. no, these success stories are right in front of us, right under our noses. i am thinking of the new cycle path, the village cultural centre, cross-border hospital structures or the neighbourhood house where the integration of the unemployed takes place. the europe that is supposedly so far from the people is in every market place, on every corner, but is constantly overlooked by most passersby. thanks to eu regional policy, european money is flowing into thousands of good and concrete ideas right at the doorstep of every european. all this and much more would not exist without europe, but unfortunately citizens often do not know this. europe is tirelessly at work everywhere, but remains largely invisible. we have to do something! the european idea must and can be better told. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the delay in adopting and implementing aid programmes is a major obstacle in this respect. this is where eu regional policy needs to change in its implementation: faster, better, less bureaucracy and better told. we will then be able to inspire many more people with good ideas for good projects.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection we have been resolute in our efforts to improve passenger protection. today, too often, passengers are left in the dark when they encounter problems on their air travel. where can they file a complaint? who can give them the most up-to-date information, and so on? we also believe that those who book air travel offline should have the same rights and obligations as those who do so online. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the price of the product is not too high. the safety aspect must also be taken into account. we must focus on new control technologies and also on proportionate penalties for those who do not comply with the standards, which in turn contribute to a safer travel environment and shorter travel times. finally, as rapporteur for imco, i am disappointed that more elements of our texts were not included. we believe that they are essential to the development of a strong and comprehensive aviation strategy.
author. - less than eight months ago we condemned the political arrests in bahrain. a year ago we denounced the torture practices in the country. in vain, the human rights situation is not improving. on the contrary, the regime is turning the screws, making the lives of human rights activists and oppositionists virtually impossible. today we stand here again. this time we mourn three dead. these are the first executions in bahrain since 2010 following a controversial trial and we fear more are coming. i want to make this clear to the bahraini authorities. we condemn blind violence, murder and terrorism at all times and in all places. but regardless of the gravity of the crimes, the age of the perpetrators, the course of the proceedings, for this parliament the right to life is a basic human right which cannot be infringed. i think of the words of catherine ashton: the death penalty can neither reverse the crime it seeks to punish nor mitigate a victim's loss. it should be a relic of the past". sadly, the death penalty in bahrain is not a relic, but a terrifying reality in 2017. finally, i would urge all the european institutions and member states to emphasize the importance of fundamental human rights in their relations with bahrain.
we are voting today in the house on three reports on the future of the european union. i shall now turn to the berès/böge report. i do not think we can vote on this report in the plenary this afternoon because the text presented here is not the same as the one voted on monday in the econ/budg committee. monday's vote on compromise j of the text was not taken. i have the voting list right here. there was no vote on that text, but i see that compromise j and therefore paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 are in the text on which we should be voting in the plenary this afternoon. this is not possible. this is a different text from the one in committee. the text has not been tabled here today, either by amendment or otherwise. so this is a different text. it is also an important text, it is about content, namely the president of parliament who must refer it to the council, and so on. so i sincerely believe that we cannot vote on this text and that federal europe will have to wait a while.
for the record, this is not a recess vote. this is just not possible. the text now before us is different from the text voted in committee. and there has been no amendment to correct the error. so we cannot vote on that today. this is not a political choice. this is a technical-legal fact that must be corrected. it's not something we can solve by voting on it here.
then i'll ask for the vote on the adjournment.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i find it a crazy idea that it is now mr juncker’s fault that there is a brexit. i thought it was more or less an internal catfight within the conservative party that was the reason for brexit. it is crazy how some people then blame this house here and say that it is the cause. but that said, i welcome the contribution from the commission and i certainly welcome your introduction, mr juncker, because you made mention of the founding fathers: altiero spinelli, and i could add paul-henri spaak, i could add heinrich von brentano, founding father of the german grundgesetz, and i could add jean monnet and robert schuman. i could even add winston churchill, because from 1946 to 1951 – a part that was forgotten by mr boris johnson in this biography of winston churchill – he was the leader of european integration and of the future european union. that said, it is important to recognise one thing here, which is that, before we go to rome for the festivities, what we want today is something different from the treaty of rome, because the treaty of rome was a customs union. it was maybe the right answer in 1957 but, let us be honest, it is not the answer to the challenges we are facing today. i think it is very important to talk about the founding fathers because they had more ambition than just the treaty of rome. the treaty of rome was a fall-back option, a fall-back solution, because they were not able – because of the ‘no’ vote in the french national assembly – to make a defence union, to make a political union, and to make an economic union. it is wise to remember what they wanted after the second world war, which was to create a union that was capable and decisive. but what is our problem today? you will find it in your five scenarios. you have given us five scenarios but what i remember from your introduction is that we can forget the first three. let us talk about scenarios four and five, and i think that is the right decision to make, but, let us be honest: what is lacking in the european union of today? why are we not capable of stabilising our neighbourhood? it is because we do not have the capabilities to do so. why are we not capable of finding a solution to the migration crisis and the refugee crisis? because we have no capabilities to do so at european level. why are we not capable of cleaning up our banks, eight years after lehman brothers? eight years after, we are still facing problems with an unrealised banking union, with no recovery fund and so on. why? because we have no european capacities and capabilities. and finally, why do we not have big european internet companies? if we talk about apple, microsoft, amazon, samsung, they are all american or asian. and why? because we do not have a completed digital market in the european union: no european capacities, for example for a european telecom authority or a digital authority, as you propose in your fourth scenario. that is the lesson. we are still a loose confederation of nation states based on the unanimity rule, and if there is one country blocking – and you know this better than i do, mr juncker, having been a member for a long time of the european council – if only one member says ‘no’, then we apply the unanimity rule and we do not go forward. too little, too late – that is the consequence of the absence of the european capacities and european capabilities that we desperately need. so we do not need to start asking whether it is four, five, or three, because we are already familiar with the different circles in the european union. we have 50 exceptions in the european budget. there are 50 different circles in the european union. the question now is how can we overcome that? how, for one, do we convince european leaders at national level to make the jump forward that we desperately need? that is the question, and therefore our proposal from parliament, in our papers and in the reports that have been discussed and approved two weeks ago, is to start an interinstitutional reflection. we alone cannot decide this. you alone, mr juncker, cannot decide from your side in the commission. even the council cannot do that – and maybe they do not have the inspiration to do it. so our plea, mr president of the commission, is that you back our proposal for an interinstitutional reflection from day one, from now on, so that we are not only talking about brexit here in this house, but we also open an offensive – a positive, optimistic reform of the union in parallel with brexit. and it is not only a negative story of one country leaving us, but also a story of 27 who know that their destiny in the future will be in unity, together, in the european union.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough to say that the european union is not at its best, and i thank you, mr president juncker, for coming forward with proposals. in your paper you attempt to answer the question of 'how'. we believe that before answering this question, we should ask ourselves why, and in particular why an increasing number of our citizens have become defiant, or even openly hostile, to the very idea of european integration. it is clear that in their eyes the european union has lost its legitimacy. there is, of course, the question of institutional legitimacy: the union would be too distant, too opaque; decisions would be taken in too hidden a way by politicians who would not sufficiently assume their responsibilities. if that were the diagnosis, we would expect ambitious proposals on transparency and democratic control, and all of this is necessary. but i think that the mistrust has deeper roots, because if it is about legitimacy, it is legitimacy by the result. what can be achieved by a single market and a single currency, combined with tax and social competition? what can be the result of free trade agreements and regulatory standards which make the right to profit the absolute and supreme norm, if not the enrichment of the holders of capital at the expense of all others? this, i think, is the source of the large battalions of our fellow citizens who are joining the eurosceptics, or even the europhobes. if the european union were a vehicle, it would be less appropriate today to discuss its shape, the number of seats or even the speed of this vehicle than its engine and, above all, its direction. mr juncker, if i may, you propose that we should go on the road, backwards, forwards together or in differentiated groups, but always in one direction, as if the idea of a change of course were simply unthinkable. you had the courage, mr juncker, to put the right diagnosis to us when we faced the challenge of asylum and immigration. you have told us - and you were right - that if we want to keep this area of free movement which we so much want and want, we cannot do without a common asylum and immigration policy and a common management of our borders. you had that courage. strangely, in the face of the explosion of inequality and a single currency that is tangible and that is to say little, you do not have the courage to tell the historical truth. there is no - i mean no - monetary union in the history of mankind that has lasted without fiscal union, without social union and, therefore, without political and democratic union. this is the contradiction we must resolve today if we want to preserve the single market and the single currency, and we want to do so. if we want to win back the hearts and minds of our fellow citizens, mr president, we believe it is urgent to reconnect the construction of europe with its original ambition, namely to secure peace on this continent - and this remains topical - by the extension of democracy and by shared prosperity. if we want to reconnect europe to this objective, we must abandon this idea of fiscal and social competition and move towards convergence, that is, putting the dignity of all, not the prosperity of a few, at the heart of the european project.
mr president, president juncker, today in belgium it is complimentendag. do you know what that means? it means giving compliments to each other, it is a very special day, so let me start with a compliment. you have written a very comprehensible white paper, something one can easily understand: i can give it to my mother who is 68 years old, or to my daughter who is nine years of age, and they will understand it. it is a good start to a discussion. but having said that, our group is also disappointed because, here in parliament, all of us are elected to prepare the future of europe, and that means getting into the concerns of europe, and you know very well what they are. if you look at the great challenges of europe, they are migration and security, solidarity – or the lack of solidarity – and growing inequalities. you mentioned the social pillar, and, of course, climate change. if you want to address those things – and we need to do that, it is our mutual responsibility – then you need a union in which we work much more closely together. so you do not need all these scenarios. we know which scenario we need to prepare the future of europe.
i am glad that you have spoken so much. but i'd like to see action. a year ago europol reported that there were 10 000 missing persons in europe. today child focus belgium announces that 116 new cases have been opened in belgium. last week i was visiting dunkirk, a two-hour drive from brussels. i'd like to invite you to come and see the french refugee camp there. there are 100 unaccompanied minors seeking asylum in wooden barracks, without care, without education and without seeing anyone to submit an asylum application. this is the europe of 2017! we cannot tolerate that. i'm officially asking you for a real action plan with proper reception and short procedures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat trafficking in human beings. where children are sitting, authorities should take pictures so that no one reports a missing child by e-mail after 8 or 9 days. you know, commissioner, if my dog does not come home tonight, i will go after my dog harder than europe searches for the 10 000 missing children. come up with that plan of action. i am happy to report to you on the recommendations of the malta conference. i was there myself and i want to hand them over to you personally. it's got some real stuff in it!
in writing. as we enter 2017 and all the efforts made in many areas are constantly being affirmed, it is still too easy to give examples of women still not being placed on an equal footing with men. the wage gap is one such example and remains too large, with an average of 16.7% in 2014. in fact, for equal work, a woman is paid 83.6 cents for every euro paid to a man. at this rate, equal pay won't be a reality until 2084. it is clear that much remains to be done in this area. the pay gap is still a reality, and change is too slow. our aim should be, more than ever, to address the causes and consequences of these gaps in order to succeed in reducing these persistent differences between men and women. another objective is to change attitudes, especially at the level of some men, who are not ready enough to work on this problem. as i said before, men and women are not and will never be the same, but they should at least have the same rights.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i would ask you to vote in favour of this report. in recent years, drug companies have charged exorbitant prices for their new products. in my country, belgium, we are talking about more than 43 000 euros for the treatment of hepatitis c, but also more than 100 000 euros for a year of breast cancer treatment. in the end, these prices put the social security budget at risk. in addition, the reputation of the most expensive drugs as innovative is often exaggerated. are these really innovations? to justify high prices, pharmaceutical companies point to the high costs of drug research and development. but how much does it really cost to develop a new drug? the information is not public. in addition, a significant proportion of research is carried out in universities financed by public funds. so he is pleased that we are now addressing the matter. thank you for your attention.
i would like to speak a little about turkey, about the statements made by mr erdogan, who is strongly opposed to the european union. we have seen the riots in the netherlands, we have heard mr erdogan's statements calling the dutch fascists, calling them nazis. this is not possible. we cannot tolerate this as a european parliament. i sincerely believe that we should add this to this week's agenda. i know that this is scheduled for the april part-session, but we have the political news. you can rightly hide behind the procedures, behind the rules and say that this was not done in time. that's right, this wasn't put in at the right time: i'm saying this now. but there's something else we can do. we cannot hide behind the rules and debate the political issues of the day - as real politicians, as a real parliament - and therefore also debate turkey this week.
mr president, madam commissioner, access to goods and services and the provision of goods and services are two areas where gender equality has never really been taken into account. these are sectors which are increasingly dominated by men. this is why strong positions are needed in this respect. while the proposed directive offers strong tools to ensure the principle of equality between men and women, the full potential of the directive depends on raising awareness among service providers and users, and on the coherent integration of the gender dimension in the sectors covered by this provision. on the issue of eu gender equality funds, i would like to stress that although there are several economic support programmes relating to gender equality, very few of these programmes have clear objectives, specific means, effective implementation or systematic monitoring. as regards the annual report on gender equality, i would like to recall that, in general, all of us european human rights defenders must mobilise to defend equal rights between women and men. in the professional sector, i see that there are still many differences. i would remind the council that it is thanks to him or because of him that the european maternity leave is in the dustbin. what about the 28 member states which have again decided to postpone the discussion on the issue of women's representation on company boards? i will ask the commission for clear measures to combat sexual harassment in the workplace more effectively. women are still discriminated against in the world of work, especially when they are lesbian, bisexual or transgender. for the latter, did you know that, for example, more than 30% of transgender jobseekers have experienced severe discrimination in their job search? behind these statistics are people who suffer daily from the violation of their rights. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". there is a lot of discrimination, but it is clear that we must focus on access to professions, access to training, access to education. we have a lot of respect for women who choose to stay at home, have children, raise them, it's their choice, there's no worries. but what's abhorrent about our society is that 60 percent of people who graduate from college are women, and the higher you go up in the hierarchy of societies -- whether in the public sector or the private sector -- the more they disappear according to the glass ceiling. discrimination in relation to the pay gap is also shocking and it is therefore quite normal that we try to redress these injustices, which have too often been admitted. today we have to fight and make progress - because there is progress - go much faster.
i'm advocating an inclusive society with equal rights and duties for all. this applies not only to all genders, particularly women and girls, but also to people with disabilities and other minority groups. a structural approach to gender inequality is needed. compulsory quotas or increased funding without concrete measures do not guarantee greater equality in the labour market or in the public sphere. people should be paid equally for equal work. we can only close the gender pay gap with more transparency and a thorough evaluation of the gender pay gap. it is unacceptable that we see little progress in the fight against violence against women and gender-based violence. violence against women, but also against men and children, is a very serious violation of fundamental rights. i therefore call for support for the istanbul convention to eradicate this extreme form of discrimination.
the eu is a world leader in women's rights. still, we must not think that the battle is over. research shows that we are only halfway there in terms of gender equality and that progress is slow. on 14 march, the day for equal pay was celebrated. women in belgium still earn on average 20% less than men. so they must start working ten years earlier to receive the same pay. but the pension gap also remains unacceptably wide. many women work part-time involuntarily because of gender stereotyped expectations or because they work in precarious statuses. this approach is essential to achieving gender equality. the extension of paternity and parental leave and the encouragement of fathers to take more of them is necessary to achieve a more equal distribution of care responsibilities in the family. the role of employers is also important. they must create a company culture that does not prevent fathers from taking their parental leave. finally, promoting gender equality also means combating gender stereotypes throughout society, starting at an early age. for example, many gender stereotypes can still be found in schoolbooks or textbooks. we have to put an end to this.
mr president, commissioner, you are the commissioner for security, so it is quite logical that you have placed your intervention in the context of the fight against terrorism. i'd like to believe you, but i'm having second thoughts. terrorists do not go to the gun shops to buy their weapons, presenting their id cards and a certificate of good conduct. i have here the europol report from november 2016, which indicates that terrorists procure weapons of war on the illegal market, then on the internet, and that the deactivation of weapons and the activation of deactivated weapons were used only in one case, that of the paris attacks. we are wrong, commissioner: the priority is to combat the illicit trade in arms and not to hinder those who legally practice sport or collectors. of course, there are many positive elements in the proposal and i would like to follow them, but i am faced with a fundamental problem which i personally cannot ignore: the sale of arms to private individuals on the internet. i don't understand why certain medicines are forbidden to be sold on the internet without a doctor's prescription. we'd be more strict on medication than we are on guns. i do not accept this situation and i shall vote against this motion reluctantly.
in writing. strengthening controls on firearms licences, but also on checks on blank or poorly neutralised weapons such as those used in the paris terrorist attack, improving traceability, increasing and regulating the mutual exchange of information on weapons: these are the objectives of our revised legislative text, the result of almost a year's negotiations and which will be voted on this afternoon in plenary. a text for a safer europe, combining greater security for citizens and the interests of legitimate gun owners. our text establishes a common legislative base for all the member states and guarantees the necessary consistency that is much awaited by the most rigorous european countries in this field, such as belgium, germany and france. the member states remain free to be even stricter on their own territory than the european legislation suggests. the new rules reconcile the need for greater security to which citizens are entitled with the interests of legitimate gun owners such as hunters, sportsmen, collectors, reservists and extras.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the eu is heavily dependent on third countries for imports of raw materials. many of these resources are in danger of being exhausted in the relatively short term. yet we are extremely sloppy with it. each european citizen produces about five tonnes of waste a year: the weight of an adult african elephant. and we only recycle a third of that. our waste mountain is growing, while precious resources are still too often lost underground. we need to break that dynamic and make a strong commitment to a circular economy, where we recover valuable resources. this is not only good for the environment, it is also necessary to keep our economy competitive. more recycling and making waste disposal a winding-up story is essential, but better recycling alone is not enough. if we really want to shift to a circular economy, we also need to make effective use of less waste, more reuse and closing cycles through innovative business models. everyone's got to take a bath, including the producers. in addition, a single method of measuring recycling rates should ensure that we no longer compare apples to pears and that everyone takes responsibility. flanders, the nation i represent, is a pioneer in the field of materials management and the circular economy. the path we have travelled over the last 20 years has strengthened my conviction that much is possible if the political will is there. we can learn a lot from each other. i am thinking, for example, of our best practices, such as the concept of 'circular shops' to encourage reuse and innovative ways of recovering organic waste. trash is cash: this pun came from you, mr timmermans. a lot of stakeholders and companies have already understood that. the ball is now in our court to design a good legislative framework that provides the right incentives and sets the bar high enough.
mr president, each european country has its own talents. germany has the happiest workers, estonia produces the least waste and my country, belgium, is the european champion in recycling its packaging - more than 80%, 64% of it, close to the european average. this means that we are interested in this circular economy package and that the targets set by the european parliament for 2030 in the packaging and packaging waste directive, namely 80% for wood and 90% for aluminium and glass, are clearly achievable. now, as our rapporteur has said, this legislative package must be thought of as a starting point. so be careful not to make a false start. i come now to what i wanted to talk about this morning, the issue of food waste: 80 million tonnes of food wasted every year, 400 euros of food thrown away per household. beyond the ethical problem which is unbearable, there is economic loss, ecological loss. in conclusion, it is therefore essential to vote for amendments nos 145 and 236 keep these two numbers to halve this waste by 2030.
let me begin, as many have done before me, by thanking our rapporteur, mrs bonafè, for her incredibly hard work. she has not only brought the whole dossier to a fantastic conclusion with the shadow rapporteurs, [...] we shall see in the vote, but she has also taken the lead on behalf of our group and with the other groups in putting this high on the political agenda. you referred to it yourself, commissioner, in your introduction. at first it was a little difficult for the commission and parliament to find common ground in this story. we did that. i would like to say that the commission is very much aware of the problems which have arisen in the past, and that it is not the commission's intention to make a distinction between the two. this is essentially about our economy: how to change our economy, how to make it truly sustainable and, as the commission's assessment also indicates, how to create jobs, often local jobs. this is actually the summary of what is important in this dossier, and this means that this is the beginning of a number of steps that have to come. because it can't just be about waste, it has to be about the design of our products and how our economy turns this into a truly circular experience. it also includes, for example, a sharing economy: how can we go from owning products to sharing our products or renting our products? there's a much more sustainable way to look at it. in any case, i wish us a fantastically good vote, within the general objectives of the european union.
in writing. we want member states to take preventive measures and reduce food waste by 30% by 2025 and by 50% by 2030. the total amount of food loss and by-products in flanders is about 2 million tonnes per year. we need to be more careful with our natural resources, the soil, the water use and stop carrying food for miles. i am very pleased that we are making these objectives binding. food waste encompasses the entire production process. this includes food waste. most importantly, this definition enables policy makers to identify clear causes, measure quantities, compare results and define a common strategy, across the whole chain. the circular economy legislative package integrates four waste laws. it is good that the call for a virtually complete phase-out of waste disposal is being made. by 2030, only 5% of our household waste is allowed to go to landfill. this is ambitious, also because it is combined with a higher target for recycling waste (70%). this is how you prevent member states from burning all the waste. parliament now has the mandate to negotiate the final legislative texts with the council (the member states) and the commission.
"blue card" question. what is it? madam president, i think you have confused two things very badly in this debate by comparing trump with putin. let us stay here in the hemisphere with the debate. the point today is that we as europe should let the president of the united states know that women's rights apply to all of us and that we must respect women's rights throughout the world. so if you are now taking this position against abortion - although we have all known your position for a long time - it means that you are actually against the right of self-determination of all women. do you know, ma'am, that every minute somewhere in the world, a woman dies from an unsafe abortion? europe must put a stop to this.
madam president, on january 23, the trump administration made the decision to stop funding ngos, solely because these ngos fund services that serve women's rights and the right to sexual and reproductive education. this decision will deprive millions of women worldwide of access to contraceptive methods. it will increase the use of clandestine abortion, which is risky - we know - for women. it will increase the number of deaths, which are maternal deaths, but it will also increase the number of gynaecological diseases, such as fistulas, or raise the question of prevention as regards aids. we can only take a position at european level, that is to say, no, we are not criticizing the american question, we are saying: what role do we have to play on the international stage in terms of law and women's rights? i think it's our duty to be able to compensate for what americans don't do anymore. today, she decides has raised €180 million. i think we need to complement the means that have been obtained by she decides.
president trump had barely been in office a week when he introduced the global gag rule extensively. surrounded by, shall i say, fellow old grey men. now that's not so unique: his republican predecessors did that to him. but with this, combined with his sexist remarks, i think he's hitting all of us, all of the women here in the hemisphere, very, very hard. we all know america is a global player. that is why we as europe must act more forcefully. we must say as europe: we can't be touching on women's rights. because that 's what this is about: he's cutting funding, but he's also making sexist remarks. so i support the colleagues who have called for support for she decides, i support the belgian minister alexander de croo. we were there, i was at that symposium. what you felt there was phenomenal. i would like to feel that here in the european parliament. that is why, commissioner, my questions are: what are we going to do to counteract the effects? are we going to supplement she decides? what are we going to do to take action against sexism?
i would like to make two further points in this interesting debate. the first point is the situation in the eastern congo. since 2014, more than a thousand people have been brutally slaughtered, women brutally raped, children used as child soldiers. and we actually find that no one is held accountable. we're not going to find out who did this. we're not going to punish the perpetrators. that is why i would urge that an independent inquiry be launched. we must punish those responsible, ensure that the violence in eastern congo is brought to an end and give the victims and their families a face and a name. we owe it to them. the second point i would like to raise is the impending destruction and displacement of the palestinian bedouin community in khan al-ahmar. there is a school there with eu funds which is now in danger of being destroyed. we must also tackle this.
the aim of this legislation is to ensure uniform control of the food chain throughout the european union. i think we should be proud of the work we've done. we have therefore spent hours negotiating, mainly with the council and even with three presidencies. we are harmonizing the work of the various food safety inspection services. we are extending the controls from the controls on food, animals, animal feed, animal welfare and animal health to the controls on plant health, residues and pesticides. we're also focusing on fraud. we've learned from the horse meat scandal that it's necessary. i personally think it is a good thing that the specific controls on organic farming have been taken out of this regulation and will be covered by the specific regulation on organic farming. for organic farming, there are separate certification bodies which monitor not only the quality of the final product but also the quality of the product and the whole production process. the independence of the inspection services is better regulated. unannounced inspections are essential. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget. there will be more severe fines. the specific clause on whistle-blowers is of course also of great importance. i would have preferred to see the responsibility of veterinarians in slaughterhouses more clearly defined, but that was not feasible. i would ask my group to approve this report.
we're now more than two years after luxleaks. meanwhile, there's been the swiss leaks, the panama papers, the bahamas leaks and who knows what else is coming. the outrage after each new revelation gave us as politicians a clear mandate, indeed a duty, to address these abuses. in the european parliament we have entered into a glove with the two special committees on tax rulings and other measures of a similar nature or effect and the committee of inquiry into money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion. we have always come up with concrete proposals for solutions, but unfortunately our power is limited to holding the member states and the commission to account. however, important steps have also been taken in the legislative field, such as the automatic exchange of tax rulings and the anti-beps directive. but is this enough? can we now look our citizens in the eye and promise that luxleaks will never happen again? i'm sure you didn't. i would like to mention three things. first, the list of tax havens is a missing link. i would like to ask the member states to throw aside taboos and come to a single, definitive european list. because as long as there are backdoors, they'll be found. i'm sure of it now. the sanctions attached to this will also be crucial. but secondly, in addition to formal sanctions, we must also address the reputational effects. that is why i am calling on the banks here and now to sign a european charter committing them not to deal with tax havens. thirdly, the back doors within europe must be closed. and let 's be honest here . this can only be done through the proposed ccctb. unfortunately, the council's signals on this are far from encouraging, but it is now or never. in the meantime, several countries have also announced a reduction in their corporate tax rate, making a debate on a possible european floor rate inevitable in the long term. in conclusion: the catch 22 in which the member states are currently holding each other captive in the field of taxation is a sign of short-term thinking and, i regret to say, not of the political courage we need to look our citizens in the eye again and work towards a fair europe.
in writing. in a fair tax system, multinational companies also pay their share and must do so where they add value and make their profits. in july 2016, we voted on the recommendations of the luxleaks special commission report on tax evasion and tax avoidance by multinational companies. eight months later, where are we? the european parliament has just adopted the establishment of a public central register of beneficial owners of offshore companies under the anti-money laundering directive and has reopened negotiations for a common consolidated corporate tax base. i would like to conclude by stressing that we are on the right track. indeed, in less than three years, we have made a huge step forward in the fight against tax evasion. however, we must not stop on this good road and it is essential that we continue our efforts in the months ahead.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to support the excellent report by our colleague, mr siegfried mureşan. my colleague jäätteenmäki has said this - and i will not repeat it - but in fact we find in his proposals almost all our concerns and priorities. i want to focus on a problem which i consider to be essential in the present state of the european project: the level of youth unemployment is too high in the union and is even dramatically unbearable in some countries. at a time when so many populists - and there are some in this room - want to sabotage the european project, we have an obligation to show that the union is a real added value for the younger generations. the youth employment initiative deserves strong support and strengthening. the council's laziness in this matter is a disgrace. the erasmus + programme, which is undeniably successful, must be extended to young apprentices and make room for young workers in the future. our rapporteur also takes up in his report the proposal for a european interrail pass, and the commissioner seemed to find this idea sympathetic. i also find it sympathetic, but it must be both well calibrated and financially manageable so that it does not become an electoral gadget serving the interests of a single political party. in our view, to be worthy of support, this proposal must meet four criteria. firstly, the pass must be available to young people from all backgrounds and not just the wealthy. secondly, the benefit of the pass must be linked to a trip to another country as part of a training or discovery process. thirdly, the full gratuity is not a stake: an adequate personal contribution must be the pledge of the beneficiary's commitment to the travel project. fourthly, funding should not necessarily be based solely on the european budget but can be extended to other sources of funding. finally, the best investment we can make is in our young people. please, let's not miss the future of europe.
everybody in this room has said it before: 20 million people are starving in south sudan, yemen, nigeria and somalia. every day 21,000 people die of hunger around the world. that's one every four seconds. that means, if you can do the math quickly, a huge number of deaths in the time that we're having this debate. mr commissioner, you said: we have a very large relief programme planned. we've been putting money out and arranging for emergency aid. i understand from your words that you see the need and the urgency. all the aid agencies are asking us to do something very urgently. in yemen alone, half a million children are facing starvation. i'm afraid the emergency aid we're providing is not sufficient. i would like to pledge our support from alde to do more: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'm really afraid that if we don't do more very soon, my children will be asking a committee of inquiry later to say, europe, why didn't you do more?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr tusk on his reappointment. fortunately a right of veto no longer exists on the matter of the nomination of the president of the european council. president tusk, i would like to thank you very much for your strong condemnation of the provocation by president erdoğan towards our dutch friends. it is quite cynical that the man who wants to install an authoritarian system in turkey is at the same time pointing the finger and using the term ‘fascism’ in relation to a number of countries in the european union. it is quite cynical. it is also quite cynical that he has asked for freedom of speech for his ministers in our countries, while in the meantime there are european journalists in prison in turkey. we have to make the case that a german journalist from die welt newspaper, deniz yücel, is still in prison, and i think the first thing that we have to do with all the european leaders is to call again for his release as soon as possible before president erdoğan can ask to have freedom of speech in another country. i think we have to be realistic and i am in full agreement with what manfred weber has said. it is good that we are condemning everything that is happening in turkey, but at a certain point, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, let us be honest, let us freeze the accession negotiations now. that is the only serious action that we can take to condemn what mr erdoğan is doing at the moment. that is the only serious way to do it. when he comes back to reason – i don’t know when – then we can return to the negotiation table, but to negotiate at the moment with somebody who is using that language towards our democratic societies in europe is unacceptable. i would like to thank mr gentiloni for being here as president of the italian council of ministers. i will be in rome on 25 march, but not in the beautiful palazzo dei conservatori at campidoglio. i will be in another beautiful place in rome, the piazza di spagna, because with the european movement, with my friend elmar brok, with jo leinen of the european federalists, with the spinelli group, and with the stand up for europe movement, we will be gathering there, in the piazza di spagna, which is perhaps as beautiful as campidoglio, because we want to recall, not the europe we have got and that we had in the past, but in fact we want to prepare the europe we will need in the future. the question about what kind of europe we will need in the future has been there for weeks, months, and i should say, already for years. do we need more europe or do we need less europe? do we need more or less? i think it is a stupid question. in some cases and in some fields we need less europe. we need less bureaucracy, we need less regulation, for example in our internal market. maybe we will need less commissioners in the future and a small european government. we need no regulation on toilet bowls, vacuum cleaners, bananas or cucumbers. there we need less europe. but at the same time we are all aware of the fact that we need more europe on a number of other issues. we need a european border and coast guard to manage our borders and not to outsource this task to erdoğan. for example, we need a european government for our single currency and a minister of finance and a treasury, because a state can maybe exist without a currency, but a currency cannot exist without a state. that is the reality that we have to see. i think we need a european investigation and an intelligence capacity to fight against terrorism, not only depending on coordination between national authorities, and finally i think we also need a european defence community and a european army to stabilise our neighbourhood and to be capable of doing something in our neighbourhood. so the question is not whether we need less or we need more. we need less in some fields and we certainly need more in other fields. i hope that in rome we will not produce hot air again because, let us be honest, mr tusk, we have had valletta, we have had bratislava, and now we are going to rome. it is now time to start a process. we are not going to rewrite the treaties in rome 60 years later. that is not possible, but what we could do is start a process, finally, and not just make declarations, like the new declaration we are now preparing. my proposal – the proposal of the european parliament – is to start an interinstitutional exercise with the three institutions together based on what we did with mario monti’s report, where we created a new blueprint for the future budget of the european union. we did this together – the council, the commission and the european parliament – and my request to you, mr tusk, is that, together with prime minister gentiloni, you launch such a process in rome. we are not going to wait for the outcome of all these elections in 2017 because there are going to be new elections in 2018 and 2019 in other countries. so, if you can do something, it is to launch that process. we know that rome was the first republic, we know it was the first empire, we know it was the birthplace, with florence, of the renaissance, and we know it was the start of the european union. well, i hope that on the 25th it can also be city of the rebirth of the european union. (applause)
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr tusk, you are a lucky man, because jarosław kaczyński your sworn enemy wanted your head so badly that he managed to unite the 27 other heads of state and government, none of whom i say no wanted to give him this gift. so you're reinstated. however, i must say that your first term of office did not impress us, because we are wondering, in the face of the unprecedented crisis facing the european union, whether you are the man for the job, whether you have the leadership and the vision to bring europe out of the doldrums. i refer to the letter you wrote to the heads of state and government before the bratislava summit on 13 september. you seem to be taking stock of the disillusionment of many europeans with the construction of europe, citizens who - to quote you - want to know whether the political elites are able to regain control of events and processes that are beyond them, confuse them and sometimes terrify them. as the first challenge, you mention the challenge of migration, and you are right. there is cause for concern when we see that the causes of migration - be it tyrannies, wars, resource depletion or climate change - are nowhere near disappearing. and your answer is fortress europe, or how to keep at a distance and repel those who flee from hell. in addition, in your letter you describe those who oppose this concept of 'fortress europe' as 'politically correct'. is it politically correct, mr tusk, to consider that it is not normal that turkey, which is six times less populated than the european union, twenty times less rich than the european union, is hosting twice as many refugees as the european union? is it politically correct to denounce the imprisonment of asylum seekers by hungary of your friend orbán, without europe saying anything, in violation of international law? is it politically correct to deny that 2017 sees even more people die in the mediterranean after the record of 2016? where are you, mr tusk, when it comes to reminding member states of their humanitarian responsibility and respect for the law? the second challenge you face is terrorism, and again, you are right. i think what you say is very right. when you say that the member states need to cooperate much more, particularly in the collection and use of intelligence, you are right. but you cannot ignore the fact that a number of countries see the widespread surveillance of our citizens as the one and only answer to terrorism. you know that in a democracy, there are at least two basic principles. the first is the separation of powers. this is particularly the case where the judiciary must be able to control the executive. the second basic principle is proportionality between the restrictions applied to people's freedom and the objective pursued. but these two principles are increasingly being violated in a number of our member states, and i shall mention france and belgium this time, not to mention the same countries. where are you, mr tusk, to denounce these deviations in the member states? the third challenge you face is that of globalisation, and again you are right, but i do not understand you anymore. your speech is incomprehensible, because once again - and i quote you - you reiterate that free trade and competition are in the interests of europeans. when this free trade and competition weakens public services and our social security systems, when it levels wages and working conditions down, when it destroys fiscal justice, tell me in the interests of which europeans this neoliberal globalisation is working. i tell you, the only europeans to benefit from this are the holders of capital. the others pay the bill. where are you, mr tusk, when, instead of encouraging this senseless logic, you should be reminding the heads of state and government that the ambition of the european union is shared prosperity? next week, you'll be in rome to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the treaty. this meeting could legitimately be the celebration of 70 years of peace on this continent, with the exception of the former yugoslavia. i think it's something to remember and it's a success. my grandparents lived through two world wars, and i'm lucky i didn't live through those ravages. but if you want this meeting to be the new starting point for european enthusiasm, the rome meeting must be the one where a change of course is being set in motion. we need a fairer europe, one which sets minimum social standards in all the member states and which organises, not fiscal and social competition, but fiscal and social convergence upwards. we need a europe that puts the energy transition at the heart of its investment. why would you do that? of course, it's a climate imperative, everyone knows that, but we also know that it addresses social needs, energy poverty, health needs. more and more people are getting sick on our continent because of fossil fuels. it meets the economic imperative, because every year we pay hundreds of billions of euros outside europe to buy the things we burn, fossil fuels. this is a strategic imperative, because to whom are we paying for these fossil fuels? first and foremost, vladimir putin, who is our supplier for about one third. finally, we need a europe that can steer globalisation towards social, fiscal, environmental and democratic convergence from the top. mr tusk, i have only one question for you: will you be the man for this situation?
the treaty of rome was an acceptable form of european cooperation. it was not institutionalised and the participants remained free member states, which, on a voluntary basis and without hindrance to the optimisation of their own and national interests, formed a union on very clearly defined bases and areas of cooperation: an added value. since 1957, however, european cooperation has been systematically extended and finally, from about the time of the maastricht treaty in 1992, it has completely lost control of its content and its institutions. the people of europe are under guardianship, especially after the introduction of open borders for migration, the schengen treaty and the monetary union. the federal 'always-more-eu' logic must be broken. if the whole of the european union is to be saved from a collective exit scenario, new and wise founding fathers will have to return to an intergovernmental system.
the conclusions of the european council are clear: the european union must be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion. but the citizen is tired of hearing words and not seeing action. if that's the focus, why are we spending less than 10 percent of our 2017 budget on security and migration? this is also what we see in the debate on the future of europe. the plans are focused on 2025, but we can't wait that long. the citizens are now expecting action there too, and we can take action: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are facing great challenges and they call for action now.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, in a week’s time we will be commemorating the first anniversary of the brussels attacks – on 22 march – which are still so vivid in our memories. let me start by saying that i agree with you that it is time to take stock of where we are one year after these attacks in terms of security, and i welcome this debate. we have made major progress in the last two years, but we continue to face unprecedented challenges. the european day of remembrance of victims of terrorism on 11 march – last saturday – was an important reminder of why it matters so much to continue our efforts. all citizens have the right to live free from fear, whatever their opinions or beliefs. putting in place measures to prevent and fight terrorism whilst maintaining an open and free society is a delicate balance. while stepping up our counter—terrorism tools, we should preserve our values and fundamental rights. looking back at where we were before 2015, i think we can safely say that we have come a long way. together we have adopted a number of legislative instruments and other measures to prevent and fight terrorism. in 2016 together we successfully concluded the negotiations on the directive on combating terrorism within a very tight schedule so that it could be signed today. one of the keys to ensuring the security of our union is better information exchange and better information management. we are therefore working hard to implement the 2016 roadmap on information exchange and information management containing 50 actions for improving information exchange. the high—level expert group on information systems and interoperability set up by the commission last year is equally important. we are confident that these efforts contribute to enhancing trust amongst member states and europol and to increasing information exchange. the figures are quite promising, for example regarding europol’s databases. the content of the europol information system increased by 34% between 2016 and 2017 and the number of data on foreign fighters increased by 11%. a record number of 1.4 million searches were performed in the europol information system in 2016, an increase of 127%. the use of secure information exchange network application (siena) messaging, which was upgraded to the level ‘eu confidential’ in 2016 and now better suits the needs of intelligence services, has also increased by 19%. as regards information-sharing by security services, europol has created the possibility for counter—terrorism units to communicate bilaterally using the secure information exchange network. the european counter—terrorism centre, operational since january last year, is more and more fulfilling its role as an information and cooperation hub in support of member states. the firearms directive is another important achievement in the fight against terror. yesterday you approved the compromise text, and this will allow the council to vote and successfully close the legislative procedure at first reading. the new directive will enhance the traceability of firearms. it will provide more stringent rules in terms of deactivation of firearms. this is particularly important since it was precisely poorly-deactivated and reactivated firearms that were used in some of the recent terrorist attacks. finally, the new directive also prohibits some dangerous semi-automatic firearms. radicalisation is something that obviously must be addressed, primarily by member states but also by a coordinated and broad approach at eu level. we have started updating the set of guidelines agreed in december 2014 to complement the revised eu strategy for combating radicalisation and recruitment to terrorism to bring it into line with the current developments. this complements the efforts undertaken by the commission in relation to the recently-launched network of national prevention coordinators. focusing on online initiatives, the work of the internet referral unit at europol is crucial. cooperation with service providers has proved successful, and approximately 90% of the content considered illegal is taken down by service providers. at the eu internet forum ministerial meeting in december last year, the internet companies involved announced the creation of a new shared database to facilitate identification of potential terrorist content on their platforms. another important part of our joint endeavours concerns the rights of victims of terrorism, which have been significantly strengthened by last week’s adoption of the directive on combating terrorism. this directive includes a catalogue of specific measures and services for the victims of terrorism. it also introduces a coordination mechanism in case of a terrorist attack. in relation to external borders, an additional safeguard will be provided as of next month, when the amendment to the schengen borders code to reinforce checks against relevant databases at external borders in light of the increased terrorist threats will enter into force. member states will have to carry out systematic checks on all persons – also those enjoying the right of free movement under eu law – when they cross the external border, both at entry and exit, against databases and in order to verify that those persons do not represent a threat to public order and internal security. allow me to say a few words on the external security and defence aspects. in the present international environment, europe must do more to protect its citizens and contribute to peace and stability in its neighbourhood and beyond, including by committing sufficient additional resources. after the endorsement of the eu global strategy by the council in december 2016, the european council addressed this topic at its meeting last week. it welcomed the real progress made in a number of key areas. building on that momentum, work will be taken further and the european council will revert to this issue in june to provide further strategic guidance. i use this opportunity to highlight the fact that last week the european council reiterated the call it made last december for us, as co-legislators, to agree on the proposal for an entry and exit system by june of this year. we have also been called upon to speed up work on the proposal for the european travel information and authorisation system. i hope that together we will be able to meet this call. finally, i can assure you that we are continuously striving to improve, to close gaps and to enhance our security, including by assessing our structures and policy, which can contribute to ensuring the eu policies are fit for purpose. i thank you for this opportunity and look forward to hearing both the commissioners and honourable members in this debate.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, minister borg, today we are commemorating a tragic anniversary. almost one year to the day, terror struck brussels. we are here, united, to pay our respects to the memory of the victims of terrorist attacks. we remember and honour those who died unnecessarily – innocent citizens. we remember and recognise the suffering of their families, and the survivors of the attacks. they have to live forever with the memory of the atrocities. we all know that terrorism is brutality, an act of inhumanity and of callousness. that is why today is also a day of resolve, of resilience, of determination, to do everything in our power to prevent such terrorist attacks from happening again. this is a duty we all share here in this room, and it is ultimately our duty towards our citizens, who increasingly look towards europe to feel safe against terrorism. almost one year ago, we said that the only way to fight terrorism decisively is together, through a genuine and effective security union in europe, where the security of one member state is the security of all. starting from our external borders, where we put in place a european border and coast guard, proposed an eu entry-exit system, and etias, our travel information and authorisation system for visa-free travellers. ensuring systematic checks on everybody crossing our borders; working with our strategic partners like the united states of america, but also our neighbours – the western balkan countries, lebanon, jordan, tunisia and turkey; improving the way we exchange information: interconnecting our information systems to make sure we connect all the dots; establishing our european pnr system to track the movements of dangerous persons; criminalising all aspects of terrorism with our new counter-terrorism directive; strengthening our agencies, starting from europol, where we set up our counter-terrorism centre to help member states in their operations; cutting the access of terrorists to explosives and firearms (you actually voted on our new firearms directive this morning); going after the money of terrorists, with a series of proposals targeting money laundering, asset-freezing, cash movements and suspicious financial flows from third countries; strengthening the security of all modes of transport, which are often the main targets of terrorists. we do this through stepped-up intelligence-sharing, local risk assessments, innovative methods and technologies, and the key role of operators for a successful implementation of measures. and finally, working to counter radicalisation in our communities, schools, prisons, and especially on the internet. now that daesh is losing all its territory on the ground, the internet is where they will focus. i have just returned from silicon valley, where i went to meet the major internet companies working with us in the eu internet forum, an initiative we took two years ago, and it has proved itself very successful. what i confirmed in this visit is that we managed to build a solid relationship of trust and partnership with these companies. our goals are shared. they want to clean up their platforms from all terrorist content. we want to keep our citizens – their users – safe. concrete results from this partnership are already visible. the referral mechanism we set up with europol last year resulted in almost 90% removal rate of the content we refer to the companies. i have seen in action their new project to eliminate terrorist propaganda – a shared database between them to ensure removed terrorist content stays offline. i heard how they want to work with us to bring the smaller, more vulnerable platforms into our partnership. and it is not just about removing terrorist content; it is also about creating content with positive narratives. today, as i said, we launched the civil society empowerment programme, with a eur 10-million financial envelope attached, to help ngos pass positive counter-messages online. things are moving forward, but we still have a lot of work ahead of us. we have put important proposals on the table that you need to adopt swiftly to make a difference for the security of our citizens: entry-exit; etias; the schengen information system, on which work should be completed this year. what we agree should be fully and correctly implemented: pnr; the counter-terrorism directive; our new rules on firearms have entered the crucial stage of implementation, and as you understand, we cannot afford to fail. tragic anniversaries such as today’s underscore our responsibility to deliver without delay for the memory of the innocent victims, for the safety of our citizens, for our collective security.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, in my country, 22 march has become a symbol of mourning. a year ago, like other countries before and unfortunately after, brussels was struck by terrorist violence. our thoughts are with the deceased and their families, with all those who are still suffering in their flesh and in their lives, with the victims of 22 march and with all the others in europe and elsewhere. aside from the safety measures, life has now resumed. brussels will always be brussels. 'brussels, my beautiful' as dick annegarn sang it, the european brussels, brussels with its joyful melting pot, a symbol of openness and diversity. the terrorists are demanding that we design our defenses better, but they have failed and will always fail in their attempt to impose their totalitarian vision. identities cannot exclude each other, they must add up: this is the condition for living together. radicalisation leading to terrorism is a complex phenomenon which requires us to act on all fronts to guarantee security while preserving our humanity. lauriane shared the values of democracy, justice and tolerance with her father, a journalist at the public radio station, and she was one of the victims of this heinous act. after this tragedy, on the air, his father michel visart, courageously gave us a message of hope. i echo his words: 'building walls of exclusion or cultivating hatred will not help. if we want a different world, we need this respect, this tolerance and this love. may these words help us to reject the retreat of identity, to strengthen our security, while preserving our freedoms and our living together.
next wednesday will be exactly one year since isil carried out horrific attacks on belgium's zaventem national airport and the maalbeek metro station in the european district. dozens of people were killed and hundreds of people were injured. i would like to express once again my sympathy to the families and friends of the deceased and the injured, whose pain and sorrow i can hardly fathom. in the light of this horror, we have voted for several very concrete european laws to prevent such attacks in the future. i am thinking of the pnr directive, which allows intelligence services to carry out a thorough analysis of passenger data provided when booking an airline ticket. suspected travelers are now much more readily targeted. i am also thinking of the recent amendments to the schengen borders code, which will allow us to check all eu citizens at our external borders, including at our international airports. any returning european jihadist who fought in syria or iraq will now be caught. but our work is far from finished. we must now start implementing the etias system. this means that we can subject all foreigners who wish to visit the eu and do not need an eu visa to a prior check, as the americans already do. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i hope very much that this matter can be discussed in all serenity in the interests of our citizens and their safety.
mr president, one year ago, almost exactly the same day, a monstrous attack struck brussels: 32 dead, 324 wounded, 224 people in hospital. this terrible record is added to other attacks: madrid, london, paris, nice, berlin, and i forget. in all, several hundred people were killed and nearly ten thousand were injured. the whole of europe was shocked and stunned, wounded, but it quickly rose to the challenge. in response, the european union has taken a series of measures to prevent and combat the terrorist threat. the minister and the commissioner have made an exhaustive list of them, and i shall not go into it. i would like to welcome these initiatives, which we have supported, and those which still need to be taken and which we will support. but that's not the main point of my talk today. i want to spend my time with the victims. i have learned from the press that the last victim hospitalized following the attacks in brussels was able to return home on 15 february 2017. the press isn't saying what condition she's in. this news leads me to ask whether we have properly assessed the suffering and needs of the victims, and whether our compassion goes beyond mere words. i know that the member states concerned - including my own - have taken more or less rapid and comprehensive measures in favour of the victims. i also know, as the minister has pointed out, that the european union, in the new directive on combating terrorist attacks, expressly provides in article 24 that member states must provide support and assistance to victims. but what about european solidarity? we all proclaim that terrorist attacks are a criminal attack on the values we all share, that every attack in one country is an attack on all the others and on all europeans, but my question remains the same. we have created a mechanism, the solidarity fund, to show our solidarity when one of our countries is the victim of a natural disaster. we are in solidarity with the failures of nature, but we are not, in the present state of affairs, in solidarity with the aggressions that threaten us all. we're intervening for damaged property, but we're not doing it for the families that were killed or the people that were hurt. that is a great ... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, i would like to express our immediate solidarity with all the victims of the attacks in brussels on 22 march 2016 and their relatives. i believe that nothing can ever erase their suffering caused by acts that should never have taken place. but since these attacks, what do we do? i see that the priority, in almost all parts of europe, is the general surveillance, by technological means, of the whole of society. to date, however, no one has been able to establish whether and how this widespread surveillance, which has been in place for a long time, particularly in the anglo-saxon countries, has been able to prevent a single attack. at the same time, in belgium and france, the criminalisation of intentions rather than actions is being introduced. all this seems to me to pose a double democratic problem. first, in terms of the separation of powers, laws in many european countries give police powers without any control by the judiciary. in a democracy, however, the control of the executive by the judiciary is important. secondly, there is always the principle of proportionality: any restriction of freedom must be proportionate to the objective to be achieved: who can consider it reasonable to put society under general surveillance and to consider every citizen as a potential suspect? so what do you do? i think the priority for europeans is simple. most of the perpetrators of the attacks were known, so we have to collect information in a targeted way, share this information between services - we know that sharing information remains the weak link in the chain - and finally exploit the information, and for this we need human resources. i note that in most member states the police services are being weakened and are now exhausted.
one year after the two attacks in and around my flemish capital brussels, i regret to say that it has not stopped since. it won't stop on its own. oh, yes, we try to understand, we try to process, we're all just people. oh, yes, and we must all continue to stand together in solidarity. oh yes, "tous ensemble" is painted on the walls of the maalbeek metro station, just 200 to 300 metres from the european parliament in brussels. but this wasn't a natural disaster, this didn't happen to us. this was done to us by fellow humans. this was not inevitable. this should have been avoided and could have been avoided. all those many attacks in europe are almost exclusively committed in those countries which have in the past absorbed large muslim communities into their societies. there is a fatality in the case of terrorism which raises the question of whether there is a link between immigration and terrorism and whether that link is inevitable. we can only hope not. the perpetrators of brussels were convicted criminals who had been released. they took advantage of europe's open borders, of our freedom to travel and to transport goods. all of these are things that we're so proud of, but they're being used by terrorists against us. our way of life, which we are so proud of, but which is seen by a growing muslim community as unacceptable. what we have called homegrown terrorism since the london attacks is growing into a serious incompatibility with our culture on our soil. we have to act. we must stop this naive mass immigration, this stupid migration, and we must manage our society in a way that makes it clear to everyone, everywhere and at all times, that we are not going to adapt to this way of life. we must make it clear: adapt to our way of life or move. it's urgent, because the lesson of march 22nd last year is and will be: terrorism does not stop, not by itself.
almost a year ago, brussels was struck in the heart, the capital of europe: 35 dead, 324 wounded. let us first pay tribute to those victims today. it's exactly one month ago today that the last victim left the hospital. none of them have been able to claim compensation. that is why i strongly support the proposal by mr deprez, who is actually calling for the creation of a genuine solidarity fund for the victims of terrorism in europe. secondly, europe must be strong together. populists say: fold back into yourself, set boundaries. no, the war on terror is going to be won if we do it together. a genuine european intelligence service, better protection of the external borders, tackling the financing of terrorism, combating radicalisation. together we are strong. what are we waiting for? let's do it together.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i thank you for this very rich debate. the last two years in particular have been marked by too many attacks and by too many victims. our thoughts go out to them and to their loved ones. as minister borg said, last weekend we were with some of those victims, including some of the victims of the brussels attacks, i was struck again – as i am each time i have the privilege of meeting victims – by their bravery and by the power of their testimony. however, on this occasion i was also struck by the welcome that they gave to the just-adopted counter-terrorism directive, and, in particular, to the elements – not least those introduced by this house and reinforced by this house – on the rights of victims. they welcomed the fact that we were requiring member states to make sure that victims have access to the support they need not only immediately after an attack, but also for as long as necessary thereafter. that was an important piece of work that we did together. these attacks across europe display a common factor: many aspects of their preparation and execution are transnational. as a number of you have said, that is why it is so important that we work together to ensure the most appropriate response and increase our collective resilience. i would like to salute the commitment that this house has shown on security dossiers over the recent discussions. it is crucial that we maintain this momentum and continue to work for their rapid and effective implementation. as many of you have said, we have done a lot, but there is still a lot to do. many of you have mentioned the importance of information-sharing. as we discussed in plenary last month, i believe we are moving in the right direction; there is a clear increase in the use by member states of the schengen information system and the europol information system, but there is still a long way to go. i hope that this house will move quickly now to support the proposals that we have brought forward for the reform of the schengen information system, including, for the first time, a provision to oblige member states to share information on terrorism. step by step, we need to continue our work to build trust. improving information exchange is also at the heart of our work on interoperability that a number of you have mentioned. overcoming the current shortcomings in information management is a key priority for the commission. the process we initiated last year, with the strategy presented in april and the high level working group, will allow us to address these shortcomings in an inclusive and transparent way with you here and with the council. the group will present a final report in early may, and that will be a basis for further discussions with parliament and the council to look at how best to take this work forward. a number of you have also underlined the importance of operational police cooperation. the commission has encouraged member states to make use of the possibility of carrying out police checks in internal border areas. at the same time, and in answer to one of your colleagues, we are considering practical steps to strengthen police cooperation across internal borders. our objective is to enhance security within the schengen area, including internal border areas, as part of the work that we are doing to use schengen to get back to the normal functioning of schengen. but we will not defeat terrorism with databases and legal frameworks alone. we also need to continue our work, as many of you underlined, on implementation. we need to tackle radicalisation online and in our communities and prevent the hatemongers from inciting people, often young people, to go down the route of violence. we also need to continue to build our collective resilience and starve the terrorists, and others who seek to do us harm, of the means they use, whether that is arms, explosives or funding. as has been mentioned, while we are focusing on the threats related to terrorism today, quite properly we should not lose sight of the continuing work that we are doing to reinforce our security against serious and organised crime and the threats that come from cyber criminals and others who operate in cyberspace. in all of these challenges, there are no quick fixes. we need to continue to work to ensure the security of european citizens, recognising that this is a long-term challenge requiring the engagement of all of us. for our part, the commission will continue our efforts to build an effective and sustainable security union, and i sincerely hope that we can continue to count on your support in this work.
president-in-office of the council. madam president, i have to say that this is the third time i have been here in plenary but i think this was the most profound debate i have attended and it reminds us of the tragedy that took place a year ago, a tragedy that as many of the honourable members have referred to has literally hit the heart of the european union. i remember it was early in the morning and as soon as we got the news, we too, had an official from our permanent representation who along with the expectant wife and baby were right there at the airport. he was seriously injured, i called him, he heard the screams, he heard the terror of everyone at the airport until the first responders took his mobile phone and for a few hours we had no further contact with him. the officer sitting next to me today had almost arrived at the airport to join them for that holiday that eventually never happened. and so those people who have saved, and much more those who are no longer with us, not only remember them, but as we did today, constructive dialogue, continue to work to improve the security of our citizens and to live up to the expectations they have, that is, to offer that continent again a safe, peaceful atmosphere, although the challenge is great and some of the members, indeed the absolute majority of the members also contributed to the discussion and reacted to those even the statements made by both the commission, and myself on behalf of the council, on the work that has been done, including with the european parliament and over the last year. combating terrorism, preventing radicalisation and building more resilient societies also require a longer-term approach and i am convinced that with strong will, both from the institutions and from member states, we will be able to achieve the delicate balance we need to strike between, of course, offering security to our citizens, and at the same time, preserving the freedoms offered by the treaties, as well as, the rule of law. and there was reference to several tools that could be used in particular, the key to fighting terrorism effectively by having that information where it identifies terrorist networks and so they can be disrupted in time their plans as well as addressed immediately. and i am convinced that even through systems that are interoperable we can have other effective ways to contribute to the fight against terrorism and to have that internal security that we all aspire to. thank you very much for this opportunity because, once again, it was one of the most interesting debates and there was a feeling of optimism and, at the same time, the will to continue working forward in this respect.
in writing. since 22 march 2016, the black day when thirty-two people were cowardly murdered in zaventem and maalbeek, crucial steps have been taken in tackling and preventing terrorism. that's the best way we can show our respect for the victims and their families. the counter-terrorism directive, adopted last month, is a crucial step in stepping up the joint approach to syrian fighters, terrorist networks and the drying up of their financial flows. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of personal data and the protection of privacy. closing external borders is also essential to enhance internal security. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. it is clear that the most effective approach is one of increased european cooperation in tackling and, in particular, preventing terrorism. that is a major task for europe.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, tomorrow we will finally vote on a regulation which will make it possible to exclude from the european union market the so-called 'blood minerals'. it is true that we tend to talk about these 3 tgs in our jargon. what is it? tungsten, tin, tantalum and gold. all these minerals are used in our daily lives: in our mobile phones, in our tablets, in our refrigerators, in our cars, etc. the vast majority of them come from regions which are in conflict, but also from regions which do not respect human rights in the exploitation of these minerals. we have talked a lot about the great lakes region, but i think that this regulation also has the objective - and this is what is interesting - not to target specific regions, but to target all the regions where these human rights are not respected today. women and children exploited, raped, murdered on the altar of the mere profit of certain companies. the commission's initial proposal, you will agree, was based on a voluntary approach, which we in the european parliament found to be unambitious. thanks to the vote in this house, we were able to move these lines, the lines for a regulation that was going to be made compulsory, and i must also admit that even here in this parliament not everyone shared the idea of making this regulation compulsory. unfortunately this mandatory approach was not fully shared by the council either and during the trilogue, most of the council's demands were to actually reduce this mandatory approach and so we are now left with, it is true, a regulation that allows for a mandatory approach, but only on part of the supply chain. we have accepted this compromise because we think we have to move forward, but i think we have to be careful about the application of this rule. we certainly don't want it to allow companies to continue doing what they are doing today, which is killing people in conflict zones. you can count on us to be vigilant in the application of this regulation.
madam president, madam commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate the commissioner and mrs arena on the result we have achieved today, even though i may be a little more nuanced in my judgment. in may 2015, our parliament passed an ambitious bill that required all companies using conflict minerals to ensure traceability throughout the supply chain. this represents - i remind you - 880,000 companies. the trilogue agreement is obviously an important step forward, but it will only be binding on a minority of companies - smelters, refiners and importers of crude ores and metals beyond a certain quantity. for others, it will be self-regulation, that is, their greater or lesser goodwill. i think the council has missed a remarkable opportunity to moralise behaviour which is too often scandalous, which fuels murderous conflicts and turns a blind eye to the disastrous human situation of child miners, victims of intolerant economic cynicism.
for the enf group we in the epp group are particularly concerned, not about the technical provisions, which we can agree with and which are an improvement on the system. we are concerned about this political provision being set out in very general terms. 'fundamental values' is the term that is being put on something that we fear will be immediately applied by people like manfred weber and others to the way the enf can function politically. these conditions must not be subject to any conditions other than technical requirements, never political conditions. we cannot accept this provision unless we have guarantees that we can remain critical of the eu, that we can also remain critical of the substantive policies of the european union, particularly immigration policy, and that this provision is not being used here to make our work impossible. we have, by virtue of our eligibility and our being elected, as much right to that money as anyone else in this room.
the fragile arctic is clearly in danger. the melting ice cap and the increasing human activities pose a serious threat. temperatures have been rising at almost twice the global average rate in recent years. moreover, there is a proven interaction between our activities and the arctic. we are affecting the environment and climate of the arctic and vice versa. the geostrategic importance of the area can hardly be overestimated either. the resolution rightly stresses the importance of stability in the arctic for people, the environment and the economy. i will support the text fully, including the paragraphs calling for a halt to oil and gas extraction in the arctic. the exploitation of oil and gas in the arctic has always been controversial. it's very risky for the environment and also very expensive. the challenges of energy security must not give free rein to arctic oil, on the contrary. the transition to a low-carbon society, which reduces the eu's dependence on fossil fuels, should improve our energy security.
dozens of ukrainian citizens are in russian prisons today for crimes they never committed. they're hostages of russia's undeclared war against ukraine. they are arbitrarily arrested for writing articles, for example, or for participating in a demonstration, or simply for being crimean tatars. they are then tortured into confessing to things they never did. what's behind this russian operation? well, our citizens need to know that the reason is very clear. the kremlin wants its citizens to believe that they are in great danger and that a strong authority must protect them. it reinforces the rhetoric and the lie of the russian state media that ukraine is the number one enemy of the state. the aggressor suddenly becomes the victim. the crimea was illegally annexed three years ago and despite all the international condemnations, russia continues to occupy crimea. our lesson should be: the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission on the subject of the future of the european union. if we are serious about human rights, we must tighten up sanctions against those who continue to flagrantly violate them.
mr president, in september 2016 we were already concerned about the situation in the philippines and president rodrigo duterte's behaviour in his mission to eradicate the drug problem in his country. if we can understand and share his desire to fight drugs, even if we sometimes see it as a pretext, we cannot accept and must denounce the way in which the president has done it, which has already caused the death of more than 7 000 people. this relentlessness leads him to the worst kind of guilt. the arrest of his opponent, senator leila de lima, shows how he is ready to do anything to achieve his goals. it is essential that we do everything possible to ensure that she is released and that she is no longer subject to the serious charges against her, which are probably the result of a fabricated case, as my colleague mrs vergiat has pointed out. i am also particularly concerned about the president's wish to see the death penalty reinstated. it was abolished in 1987, reinstated in 1994 and abolished again in 2006. president duterte wants to reintroduce it initially for drug-related crimes, he said, but his final plan is to extend it to other crimes later.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i will not be very long. i will simply point out that the attitude of the president of the eurogroup is part of the contempt shown towards citizens, and now towards our institution, which is the source of the insurrection of a growing number of citizens against democratic institutions. i think it is important - as you have done - that this parliament expresses its deep disagreement with an arrogance that is really out of season. i have heard you, mr weber, refer to mr dijsselbloem as a socialist. for my part, i have long since stopped believing that because you wear a socialist backpack you behave as such. i can still tell the difference.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i am going to be very short. beyond the fact that we are all scandalised by the attitude of mr dijsselbloem, we have to ask ourselves whether there is also a question of principle here. and the question of principle is the following: he is the president of the eurogroup, and so he is saying ‘my masters are the eurogroup – the ministers of finance’. that problem can be solved by us, and that is by doing what is already in a number of our reports: to make a permanent president of the eurogroup who is under the scrutiny of the parliament. one of the ideas is to say: why not make the president of the eurogroup, for example, a vice-president of the commission, and this vice-president of the commission will automatically be accountable before the parliament. so it is very good – i agree with what mr weber all other the colleagues have said – but let us also take account of the consequences. we can solve this in the coming years by making a permanent president, who would be a member of the commission, accountable to this house.
unicef has said it: fifty percent of the victims of human trafficking are children. and that's what i'm all about today. of course, this figure is only a guess, since child trafficking is done in secret and children are afraid to come forward. the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect the environment. we know what happens to them: they end up in prostitution, they're killed for their organs and all sorts of other atrocities. what about the 10,000 missing underage asylum seekers, commissioner? i have asked you many times and i will continue to ask you until we have a real plan of action. that is why, madam president, i ask you, and many of my colleagues here, to answer the following question: what are we gonna do to protect the kids? they are the highest good of society. let's bet on that.
mr commissioner, first of all, thank you for coming here tonight after your meeting with the council earlier today. i think it is unnecessary to repeat here that your approach will be decisive in restoring consumer confidence. i expect the european audit of brazil scheduled for this spring to be carried out with the utmost seriousness. it is a necessary condition for restoring consumer confidence. in europe, the emphasis must be on harmonisation between member states at all levels. fraudulent operators target the weakest links, where there is the least control and/or the lowest cost. more thorough inspection and adequate testing throughout the union are essential. commissioner, i'm a belgian citizen. we don't have steak without fries. and i'm also worried about our european fries. it is not because of their quality or safety, but because brazilian anti-dumping measures have been in force against european frozen potato chips since february. i asked you a written question on this on 7 february. and although i realize that it is not a phytosanitary problem, i dare ask you to explain the commission's approach to this.
in writing. a new food scandal is plaguing the eu: the importation of rotten and unhealthy meat from brazil. twenty-one brazilian companies are under suspicion. four of them exported meat to the eu. this scandal is the tip of a huge iceberg. between 2000 and now, the rapid alert system for food and feed lists 258 notifications concerning brazilian meat products and 553 notifications concerning poultry. between 17 november 2016 and today, there are 24 serious reports of salmonella and 3 of e. coli in frozen meat and poultry. this scandal is linked to intensive farming techniques that cause massive deforestation in the cerrado, a savanna-like area where deforestation is 2 to 3 times faster than in the amazon. this also has a direct impact on human rights: 207 environmental activists were killed between 2010 and 2015. the former fvo carried out 3 audits in 2016 and found that meat exports did not meet european export standards. however, this did not affect trade in any way. the fvo is doing an incredible job, but there is insufficient political control over the follow-up of their conclusions and recommendations. that is why i am calling for an annual political debate on the recommendations of the fvo.
the s&d group. you have before you an unlikelyly proud, proud chairman of the first committee of inquiry in ten years. at the beginning not everyone was so enthusiastic about the setting up of this committee of inquiry, not even the commission at the time or the commissioner, but within a few weeks and months we turned that atmosphere around. we've all had the openness to look at the facts. we have had an unlikely number of experts and witnesses in our committee in a year's time and we have succeeded, with the support of many in that committee, but of course especially our rapporteurs, shadow rapporteurs and coordinators, in making sure that a very solid report has been submitted. i would also like to thank the people in the secretariat in particular. i have seen them struggle every day to get the right people on our committee, over and over again. that was a real piece of work. it is now time to look a little further into the future and the recommendations, so that we not only look at what has gone wrong, but also at what we want to see changed in the future. we have an absolute duty to ensure that the cars on the road are kept clean. that is why it is extremely important that we bring down the conformity factor, commissioner. that we make sure that we can introduce remote sensing and for example - a very important thing - start measuring the nox, also in car inspections. we are also strengthening - and we are doing so in the dalton report, which has also been well supported - type approval and market surveillance, and they cannot make an agency into a fetish. it is important, however, and i appeal to my colleagues, particularly those of the liberals and the epp, to think it over carefully. it's not about extra. it is about ensuring that we have an independent body that can carry out proper controls. and finally , never wasted a good crisis. we want to make sure that the car of the future that is being built in europe is a car that is completely clean, and we want to invest in that too. i want to thank all of you who have worked so hard on this committee.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. the large differences between car emissions in the lab and those on the road were known and there were indications of possible fraud. yet no action was taken to tackle the structural problem forcefully. on the contrary, the introduction of effective field tests was significantly delayed. the conclusion is therefore not to be misunderstood: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. this is particularly the case for vulnerable road users and children. poor air quality is choking citizens to death and making them sick. in the eu, 75 000 people die prematurely each year from nitrogen dioxide alone, mainly from polluting diesel cars. however, the technology is already available to achieve the proposed standards today, also in real driving conditions and without negative impact on co2 emissions. it is incomprehensible, it is unacceptable that some member states and the car industry are still on the brakes. their delaying maneuvers must stop. the protection of human health and the environment is a shared social responsibility. today we have a unique opportunity to show our citizens that we will not let them down and that we will put an end to the structural failure that 'dieselgate' has exposed. in this specific context, strong market surveillance offers the best guarantees to exclude political influence. i shall vote in favour of the agency in the future, both in the report by mr gieseke and mr gerbrandy and in the report on type-approval. i hope that parliament will not let this opportunity pass. failure to learn from 'dieselgate' would simply be unacceptable and would further undermine the credibility of the european union.
the car industry is an important part of our economy, and we are not going to create red tape today. but we cannot and will not deny that the european consumer has been deceived. that is what i am getting out of the report. i am convinced that if the commission and the member states take to heart our recommendations which are before us today and which will be voted on, this evil situation will come to an end. in the future, consumers will be able to buy a new car that meets european standards with peace of mind, literally and figuratively. the same consumer will also be able to breathe cleaner air in the future as a result of this regulation.
member of the commission. – mr president, i wouldlike to thank all members for their speeches and for the views expressed today. i want to express my feelings and make a few remarks. firstly, it is very clear that the adoption of the report and the recommendation does not mark the end of our cooperation on this topic. i can comment on this, but i also seek your strong support, which i have had so far. we need to be engaged not only on the follow-up of the recommendation but, i think, most importantly on ensuring that the legislation changes. we need to see early and effective adoption of the new type-approval reform, because this will be a game-changer. we must continue to hold car manufacturers and member state authorities accountable. it is increasingly important that our consumers have confidence in the industry and in the national authorities overseeing it. many of you mentioned compensation, and some of you mentioned that we have to protect our car manufacturers. as you noticed, i have not yet succeeded in getting a response from the car manufacturers on compensation to europeans, but this not a matter of my personal success or otherwise. it is just the failure of the european car manufacturers to find a proper and fair response to europeans, comparable to the americans’ response. we just need an initial public gesture and a change of attitude, which has not happened so far. this would be the best protection and the best shield for our car manufacturers and for our automotive industry in the future. they have not done it so far. we must ensure that the law is monitored and enforced on the ground, and we have to work together on the future of the automotive sector. we know that diesel will not disappear overnight, but after this year of work and exchange of views with you, i am quite sure that they will disappear much faster than we think and we can imagine. we have to be prepared for this. we will come forward with a mobility package in may to address these issues. we will be prepared for the future with zero-emission cars, with the focus on batteries, on battery-charging infrastructure and regulatory incentives. we will prepare the future to ensure similar cross-border mobility and, finally, together with my colleagues the other commissioners, we will prepare for the future of new demand models where public and private transport models are integrated. i urge you to work with me in the future and the longer term, because we need both the member states and industry on board to get these changes right. i am sure that 2017 will be a decisive year for this. thank you very much for everything achieved so far, especially by the committee. i am looking to working with you because i will need your strong support, as before. lastly, i want to thank you for your high flexibility on arranging our work. unfortunately – and i would like to apologise for this – i will not be able to stay with you throughout the debate on mr dalton’s report. the commission will be represented on this by commissioner vella, who is also partly responsible for the file. however i will remain at your disposal for further discussion and, of course, at any moment you need me.
in writing. the dieselgate affair leaves us all with a bitter feeling. who was responsible? why is it that things can go so wrong despite legislation that we thought was conclusive? the responsibility was collective, as is clear from a year of research. what matters now is that we take measures to prevent such a fraud from ever happening again. the fraud was carried out at the expense of public health and at the expense of consumers, who were outright deceived. the good news is that some of the structural, fundamental interventions are already in the pipeline or are already in place. the emission of nitrogen oxides will be measured under real driving conditions for a long time to come, and no longer in the laboratory. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat pollution. the citizens expect us to close all the back doors today. we must now prove that effective european supervision is the most effective solution in this case and we must not waste any more time.
madam president, eighteen months after the revelation of the dieselgate scandal across the atlantic and fifteen months after the establishment of our committee of inquiry, consumer associations in the member states are continuing to put pressure on the manufacturers. in belgium, 10 300 customers have joined a collective action to denounce a fraud on the sale and we understand them. just look at the effectiveness of this system in the us, where volkswagen has committed to paying over $23 billion to its customers to settle lawsuits. today, 475,000 american customers have already received their compensation. all this to say that i regret the timid and mixed signal sent this afternoon by our parliament. we have declared ourselves in favour of the principle of this collective action by the injured consumers, but we have refused to allow it to be formally introduced and implemented at european level. madam president, i would say that this is not the way to rebuild trust.
the collapse of jeroen dijsselbloem in the plenary yesterday also symbolizes the political basis of the collapse, namely the collapse of social democracy in the netherlands a few weeks before the elections. what i am saying is that it is not the task of social democracy to want to preserve the euro per se, because then it goes against its foundations and against the foundations that the people give to democratically elected politicians. the reform policy, as it is always euphemistically called here, is nothing more than the unification of all socioeconomic areas within the eurozone. the unification, the federalisation of a state which should be the european state and which you want to make one state instead of a european cooperation. that is not a natural course of events, because to do that you have to do things that are not normal and certainly not for social democrats. you must create poverty, you must strangle peoples, as you have done with the greek people, and you must simultaneously, thanks to mr draghi, create debt, debt and more debt with the ecb. it's madness. stop it !
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i shall deal with only part of the problem, or perhaps the solution. i ask the question: how and for what were and are structural fund funds used in greece? i am also investigating this specific question as parliament's special rapporteur on regional policy aid to greece. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the aid is not used to finance the construction of a new railway line in the north of greece. this is why the eu has exceptionally allowed the country to waive its own co-financing share and use the existing eu funds for concrete projects on the ground. the eu also granted greece an advance of eur 1 billion for the new funding period. i have always stressed, also in my committee, that this aid cannot be a blank cheque. these structural funds must be used wisely and not disappear into any financial holes. this also means that greece needs to grow economically to combat the high unemployment and create prospects for its people. as regards the control work for my committee, i am awaiting the commission's report, which will include an evaluation of these projects exempted from co-financing, in order to be able to assess whether this exceptional measure has had the desired success. we may draw conclusions from this on how greece is managing these funds in the current period of assistance, because at the moment, according to the information we have, these structural funds are still being called up far too little and the commission should look very seriously at why this is not happening. it would be a pity if good projects were not implemented for administrative reasons, because the country needs good projects, also in regional policy, if it is to create prospects for the people.
unfortunately, it often takes a crisis to bring about change. we have had the debate this morning on 'dieselgate' and now on medical devices. here too, several scandals have made painfully clear the inadequacy of the control mechanisms on medical devices. everyone remembers the problems with defective breast implants from the french manufacturer pip. the existing legislation dates from the early 1990s and is therefore outdated, also due to technological progress. the new rules should improve the safety and quality of medical devices in the interests of the patient. strict controls before the product is placed on the market must go hand in hand with strict market surveillance after the product is available. the rules on high-risk medical devices, such as certain implants, need to be tightened. in addition, improved transparency and traceability are essential. the agreement before us is not perfect, but it is certainly a step forward and my delegation will support it.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. commissioner, i am very pleased with this report which calls for a genuine european approach to asylum and migration. that is what the european citizens rightly ask of us. that's what we should do. we cannot continue in 2017 to tolerate people giving their wealth and love to human traffickers to go out to sea in old boats, and children, women and men drowning every day, every week. this is unworthy of europe. that is why we in the alde group are very pleased with this report. it contains crucial information: fortify the outer borders. make a real european asylum and migration application work. i want you to review the dublin system. make a real division, in solidarity with europe. take on the smugglers, but also: i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. work on that blue card so we can admit people we need. the european union must take a firm and unrelenting stand against the smugglers. we also discussed this yesterday in the plenary. that is a point on which i will absolutely insist on behalf of the alde group. we also need to focus on ending the conflicts, on fighting this extreme poverty. make sure people don't have to flee their home front. to be honest, commissioner, if i had been born in syria today, i would be on one of those old rubber boats on the way to a better life. and i imagine you with me in that old rubber boat. so we're gonna have to work on that. you said it yourself: end these conflicts, that's what we have to do. and finally, very important: the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the eu is able to provide the necessary financial support to the countries concerned. you know, sometimes i wonder how much longer we're gonna have to watch this footage. i think when my kids grow up, they're gonna ask, mom, were you really so blind and deaf in europe that you didn't do anything? let's do this thing.
unfortunately, my delegation cannot support this comprehensive report. firstly, because the report does not distinguish between people fleeing war and torture and those who emigrate for economic reasons, although this distinction is essential. but what bothers me even more is this: the report, which is so extensive, does not mention the role of certain ngos, which frontex considers to be facilitators of human trafficking. of course, people have to be rescued, but why do they have to be transferred to italian ports? what's to stop us from letting them off the ship in the land of departure if they were safe there? the only appropriate measure to combat the migration crisis is to close our external borders and therefore we must carry out withdrawal operations of those who were previously safe in a third country. then a limited number of genuine refugees can be admitted. we have to set a strict ceiling for this.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, at last! this is the word i want to use when our assembly is about to give its consent to the proposal for a revision of the multiannual financial framework. the road has been long and full of obstacles. first there was - i want to emphasize this - the ambitious report by our colleagues jan olbrycht and isabelle thomas, whom i would like to congratulate once again. the commission proposal, which was not as we expected, was a good basis for discussion. there was also the good performance of the slovak presidency, which surprised many and which i had unjustly criticised. finally, there was the hesitation of the italian government, which added a little suspense, making this a mini political thriller. that's a relief, because there will be a first, mr olbrycht said. the satisfaction is certainly not total, but partial and with a measured enthusiasm. of course, there is undisputed progress: the overall payment margin increased by some €5 billion, the flexibility instrument and the emergency aid reserve increased, the limitations on the scope of the overall commitment margin partially removed, €1 200 000 000 for the youth employment initiative, €875 million reserved for programmes we care about (erasmus+, horizon 2020, cosme, etc.). even if they are not on the scale needed, these advances deserve to be welcomed and supported. that said - and i regret to say it - the council's proposal is not entirely devoid of petty schemes. the council has indeed seen fit to add to these improvements the joint declarations which it is asking our assembly to approve. the aim of one of its declarations is to get the assent of the european parliament to limit increases in appropriations for programmes which we consider to be strategic. this somewhat pitiful manoeuvre has led us to issue a unilateral declaration which recalls the inalienable nature of our prerogatives in budgetary matters. it is clear that a declaration cannot change the treaties. in conclusion, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sure that this revision will not be sufficient to meet the challenges we will have to face by 2020, but it is a small step forward, even if it remains measured. and a little progress is always better than a big failure.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, your endorsement of the political agreement will be an important step in enabling cross-border investments, in providing companies with easier access to capital markets and in delivering better and more concise information to investors. the reform of the prospectus rules delivers on a key element of the capital markets union action plan. after 12 years of a harmonised set of prospectus rules, it was time to make the eu prospectus fit for the capital markets union. in preparing the 2016 prospectus reform we have listened to issuers, investors and market operators and decided to go much further than the last reform that took place in 2010. the new rules that you will hopefully agree to will introduce an entirely new eu growth prospectus, a higher threshold while member states can rely on local listing rules only, a new registration document for frequent issuers and enormous simplification for secondary issuances. let me briefly present the key achievements introduced by the new prospectus regulation. the eu growth prospectus is designed as a key ingredient for developing the sme growth markets introduced by mifid ii. both smes and mid-caps can use this simple prospectus to raise capital on sme growth markets. many well-functioning ‘junior’ markets of today can become the sme growth markets of the future. the new prospectus threshold will be almost doubled to eur 8 million, compared to the previous eur 5 million. for offerings below that threshold, member states can rely on local listing rules issued by the operators of junior growth markets, which can support the development of local or regional stock exchanges for small companies. issuers already admitted to the regulated markets and sme growth markets will benefit from a lighter prospectus for their ‘follow-up’ – or secondary – issuances. the alleviations for follow-up issuances reflect the fact that these companies are well-known in the market. about 70% of all equity prospectuses approved annually concern follow-up, so-called ‘secondary issuances’. our impact assessment estimates potential savings for well—known issuers to amount to no less than eur 130 million annually. finally, the introduction of a universal registration document (urd) for frequent issuers will trigger a ‘fast track’ approval of five days, instead of the statutory limit of 10 days. the urd, therefore, has the potential to decrease approval times considerably and allow issuers to seize market windows at short notice. mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank you once again for the excellent work done on this file.
the european parliament has called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial system is in a position to meet the challenges of the future. we can either react with fear or we can take this wake-up call and shift two gears in the building of a european capital markets union. europe needs investment. but first, the investment climate must be radically improved. the new prospectus legislation is an important piece of this puzzle. european companies are still too dependent on bank financing today. only 20% of them are taking money from investors. this is a serious under-utilisation of the growth potential that additional resources provide through the capital markets. the capital market is often too big a step for smes in particular. a major threshold is the high cost of a prospectus. under the current rules, prospectuses have become telephone directories in which even potential investors cannot find their way. the new legislation will make the drawing up of a prospectus much easier and cheaper. in fact, expenditure below 1 million will be exempt altogether. for smes, mid-caps in sme growth markets and certain smaller spenders up to 20 million, as already mentioned, there will be a lighter eu growth prospectus. we help promising companies climb the financial ladder and raise the capital they need to grow. the prospectus regulation offers a unique opportunity to make it much easier for smes and growing companies to raise funds. but that is far from our work on a european capital markets union. the proposal for more efficient insolvency and restructuring procedures, for which i am responsible in the econ committee, must also be tackled with the same unanimity and speed. moreover, in the quest for a deeper, genuine european capital market, the discussion of a pan-european regulator will sooner or later be inevitable. but let's take a first horde tomorrow and vote on more efficient prospectus rules.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, today, i hope, begins the process of shaping a better future for the peoples of europe. the peoples whose jobs, businesses, economy and security all depend on us to take the eu in the right direction. a new direction. the uk leaving must not be a missed opportunity to create positive change. that is why the ecr group adopted last week its vision of a reformed and decentralised european union. i can recommend it to you. britain is an island, not a boat. it will remain where it is, it will remain one of our most important economic, political and security partners. the united kingdom and the european union are friends, not enemies. this should not be a nasty break-up but the beginning of a deep and special partnership between long-standing allies. we need to start work on a comprehensive deal right now, a deal that looks at everything: cooperation on security, trade, education, research, transport and, yes, money. everything from the start. there is no time to lose. if we do anything less, history will judge us harshly as having been small and petty when the challenges of our age required us to be bold and visionary. mr verhofstadt, you spent a great deal of time in your campaign for president of the parliament distancing yourself from the backroom deals of the past. yet, once again, the pleas for openness and transparency feel like the same old empty promises – promises which those outside of brussels are increasingly frustrated with. the negotiation and process of this resolution have sought to exclude the opinions of some political groups and members in this parliament. when you do that, you do not just exclude the voices of those members, but also the voices of their electorates. mr verhofstadt, no one is asking you to agree with everyone, but you could at least listen to what they have to say. that is not to say that we do not agree with anything in the joint motion. we do. we agree, for example, that it is essential that the rights of eu citizens in the uk and of uk citizens in the eu are dealt with quickly and fairly. but we do not share other key points. we believe the european parliament should seek to support the eu negotiator not make life more difficult by making excessive demands in advance. that just looks like the same old tired tactics, which undermine the credibility of this chamber. the three-year limit on transitional arrangement seems arbitrary. we might want different lengths for different issues. we deeply regret that all the work prepared by parliament’s committees was just brushed aside. mr president, fellow members, my hope is that the eu will emerge from brexit renewed and able to prevent the departure of other member states. the next two years should be about building the faith of the peoples of europe in the decisions we are making. if the eu is to come back stronger and if we really want to win back the confidence lost by our citizens, then this is not only the moment to determine how we will work with the uk in the future, but also how we can get the eu back on track. i call on all colleagues to listen to the recent statements by several european leaders who show that there are alternatives to ever more europe. we need to follow the path to a decentralised confederal europe. there simply is no support for more centralising euro-federalism. with or without britain, we need a new direction for europe.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i have the feeling that it was a very sad moment on wednesday of last week when the british ambassador gave his letter to president tusk. that was my feeling anyway: a very sad moment. it is true, naturally, that the relationship between britain and europe was never an easy relationship, let us recognise that. it was never a love affair and certainly not a question of wild passion. i think it was a little bit like a marriage of convenience, if i can use that term. it was already clear, dear colleagues, from the beginning. in the 1950s britain decided against membership of the european coal and steel community. attlee and labour did not want it, and it was churchill and the tories who were in favour, it is good to recall this. and in 1955 at the start of the common market, britain walked away from the negotiating table. in the early years of the union it was the british prime minister macmillan who looked at the continent with nothing less than suspicion. what were they cooking up there in brussels, were they really discussing coal and steel and customs union, or were they also talking politics in brussels, plotting on foreign policy? oh, god forbid, defence matters even! so british prime minister macmillan wrote to his foreign minister, and, i quote, i have the quote here: ‘for the first time since napoleon the major continental powers are united in a positive economic grouping, but considerable political aspects’, and to his own surprise, macmillan had to admit this new experiment, and i quote further, ‘was not directed against britain.’ so when britain finally joined the european union in 1973 after, as we all know, several blockades by general de gaulle, the headlines were festive. you have to read all the british press in 1973, it was a great day for britain to join the european union. let us be honest about this, it was only a short honeymoon, as we know, because margaret thatcher asked for her money back and her successor john major called the euro, and i quote again, ‘a currency as strange as a rain dance, with the same impotence’. well, i have to tell you that the pound slipping against the euro, as we see today was not exactly what major expected at that moment. but all the rest, let us be honest with each other, is history. perhaps let us recognise that it was maybe impossible to unite great britain with the continent, and naive maybe to reconcile the legal system of napoleon with the common law of the british empire, and perhaps it was never meant to be. (applause)but, and this is important – and i hope you are applauding this also – our predecessors should never be blamed for having tried, because it is important in politics, as it is in life, to try new partnerships, new horizons, to reach out to the other, to the other side of the channel. i am also convinced and 100% sure about one thing: that one day or another, dear colleagues, there will be a young man or a young woman who will try again, who will lead britain into the european family once again. (applause)and a young generation that will see brexit for what it really is: a catfight in the conservative party that got out of hand. a loss of time, a waste of energy, and i think, a stupidity. although i continue to think that brexit is a sad and regrettable event, i also believe it is important to remember something. remember what britain and europe in these more than 40 years have achieved together. it is true, we may not have had the most passionate relationship, but it was not a failure either, not for europe, and certainly not for britain and the british. let us not forget, britain entered the union as the sick man of europe, and thanks to the single market, came out the other side. europe also made britain punch above its weight in terms of geopolitics, as in the heyday of the british empire. and we, from all sides, must pay tribute to britain, to britain’s immense contributions as a staunch and unmatched defender of free markets and civil liberties. and thank you for that because as a liberal, i will miss that in the future. colleagues, within a few weeks we will start the process of separation. and i think, mr juncker and mr barnier, the goal must be to have a new and stable relationship and a deep and comprehensive partnership and association between the uk and the eu that certainly will be very different, as we all know, from membership. in this new venture let us always remember one thing. our common bonds, our common culture, our common and shared values, our joint heritage, our history. and let us never forget that together we in fact belong to the same great european civilisation, from the atlantic port of bristol, i go as far as to the banks of the mighty river volga; but maybe that is a little too far for the moment. but let us be honest, and this will be my final point. brexit is not only about brexit. brexit has to be also about our capacity for a rebirth of our european project, because let us recognise that brexit did not happen by accident. even though since brexit i see what i call a change for the good in the mood of the public, let us not fool ourselves: europe is not yet rescued and europe has not yet recovered from the crisis. europe is still in need of change, i think in need of radical change: change towards a real union, an effective union based on values and based on the real interests of our citizens. and a union also – and i want to conclude with this – that stands up against autocrats. autocrats will close down their universities, to give one example. (applause) autocrats will throw journalists into jail, as is happening today. autocrats will make corruption their trademark. and yesterday, as we all have seen, beyond any humanity, autocrats again bombed innocent women and children with chemical weapons in syria, to give the nastiest example. so in these negotiations which will have to start in the coming weeks, let us never forget why our founding fathers – british and other europeans alike – launched this european project. there are three words: freedom, justice and peace – these are three great things that are worth fighting for. (applause)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, prime minister may, you inherited a situation you did not create, yet you had a choice. and by choosing the hardest form of brexit you chose the most extreme interpretation of the referendum. in doing so, you encouraged all those on the continent as well as in the uk from the fringes of the political landscape and the benches of your own governments who have made grandstanding and threatening their brand of politics. on the one hand, we have to all those who call for making britain the world champion of social and tax dumping, or even for starting a war with spain. on the other hand, we have those who say we should punish the united kingdom. have the last 70 years not told them anything? mrs may, by your own choice you dug yourself a hole of contradictions. how can you have a hard brexit without having a hard border in ireland? how can you – to use your own words – have the freest possible trade in goods and services between britain and the eu while you take the uk out of the single market, which allows precisely that? but above all, how can you reconcile a hard brexit with your own stated desire of a more united uk and our claim to represent every person in the united kingdom, including the large number of people, especially the young generation who voted in favour of remaining in the european union? resolving those contradictions, so as to minimise damage to our citizens must be the objective of the negotiations to come. if we want common sense and the general interest to prevail we must ignore those who shout and posture. i agree with you, mrs may, when you say you want to build a stronger, fairer, better britain. achieving stronger, fairer and better societies is a goal that many share in this chamber. delivering this requires us to face the trumps and the putins of this world, to tackle climate change, to fight terrorism and organised crime, to find common responses to the global migration challenge, to curb corporate power. and who can believe, who seriously can believe when eu citizens altogether represent 7% of the global population on 2% of the land, that any – i say any – of our member states, including the largest is better equipped to faces challenges on its own? mrs may, like it or not, we are in this together. taking back control, being recognised as global players, requires all europeans, including britons, to act together. there is no such thing as absolute sovereignty. in the 21st century we can only reconquer sovereignty for democracies by sharing it. mrs may, you want to build a britain your children and grandchildren are proud to call home. let me remind you that, as we speak, many of your own citizens are proud to call not just britain but europe home. let us not let them down.
ladies and gentlemen of the eu majority in this parliament: please stop the emotional, half-hysterical act with an air of moral superiority. we as a parliament should not pretend that we can veto this. the only people who had to make a political decision in this matter were the people of the united kingdom, and there are many sympathizers within the european union for what britain is doing now. everything else is a technical matter. if we could do something useful here, instead of all sorts of suggestions of revenge or all sorts of proposals for the permanent linking of free trade to open immigration borders, it is to express our wish, our political wish, to treat the united kingdom without rancor as a privileged partner and an exceptionally good friend.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, if we want to get to a sensible accommodation, mr farage’s speech is precisely the kind of nonsense that we should just ignore. i just want to say that brexit is a lose-lose game. i would have much preferred for us to stay together. l’union fait la force, we say in belgium, and that remains the case today. but there is one thing where i believe no compromise is possible, and that is the only thing that really annoyed me in mrs may’s letter. it concerns security cooperation. security cooperation is an area where we cannot let lose-lose logic prevail. it is in the interest of the safety and security of all our citizens, british or otherwise, to cooperate deeply in matters of security, and what we cannot accept is that any other kind of consideration – trade, commercial, whatever – stands in the way. there is no trade-off here. it concerns the lives of men and women.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i find it fantastic that mr farage is using article 217 of the treaty on the association agreement. now that he is leaving, he starts to read the treaty and to find the treaty so good. it is fantastic to see this enormous positive development, if i may say so. that said, what is clear in this debate is ‘let us put the citizens first’, and it does not make any difference whether they are eu citizens or uk citizens. we will be firm, we need to be firm to defend the unity and the interest of the european union towards the uk authorities, but my appeal here in the house today is to be open, positive and generous towards uk citizens, because many of them, millions of them, want to keep their relationship, their link, their identity on the european level. and last but not least, my appeal also to the house is that, when we vote within a few minutes, we have a huge majority and almost unity in this house. it is key to do that, to have a united european parliament, together with the eu negotiator and with the european council, and i hope for a strong vote within a few moments.
in writing. after nine months of gestation, the uk government finally decides to trigger article 50, officially opening negotiations with the european union. in the committee on employment and social affairs we have particularly studied the question of brexit from the point of view of the free movement of persons. no fewer than 700 acts of eu law concern employment policy, social policy or the free movement of workers and all of them, without exception, will be affected by brexit. in a number of cases, transitional measures will be necessary to protect citizens. this request for divorce should also encourage us to revise the directive on the posting of workers as soon as possible, in order to find an appropriate solution for the union of 27. finally, the european social fund, as well as the european fund for the most deprived and the employment and social innovation programme, are likely to be affected by brexit. it is essential that we ensure that the budget allocated to this is sufficient, and that is despite the fact that the united kingdom is leaving. brexit must be transformed into an opportunity to revive and improve the european project.
in writing. i do not like the uk leaving the eu, but now that the process has started, we must move forward in a constructive way. today the european parliament is setting its negotiating position on brexit. i believe that the interests of the citizens must be at the centre of this. no one benefits from a hard brexit: the uk is not, but neither is the eu. at the same time, for the eu-27, brexit must be a shared choice for a social, sustainable and fair european union. the eu-27 must unite around a sustainable and social future. the brexit can thus lead to greater consensus on our common values. of course, we cannot be naive. the uk will try to pull the best deal out of the fire. however, it should be clear from the outset that there can be no cherry-picking: you cannot want to keep all the benefits of membership and yet leave the union. we must be very clear that the union will not accept the creation of a fiscal paradise with ecodumping and social dumping on our borders. the eu's role in the negotiations on brexit must therefore be to ensure that the climate agreement is respected and that social and fiscal standards are met.
in writing. from 15 june 2017, eu citizens will no longer pay extra charges when using their mobile phone outside their country. this victory, which we have won after a long battle with the operators, will bring down the telephone bills of millions of cross-border workers and tens of millions of european holidaymakers. however, to ensure that these costs for the individual are eliminated and that operators do not try to catch up elsewhere, it was also necessary to reduce wholesale roaming prices, i.e. the cost that telecom operators charge each other when the customer uses the internet abroad. the decision voted on today in the european parliament goes in that direction. the agreement gives the citizen a double benefit. on the one hand, he is assured that he will not pay any extra charges for using his mobile phone outside his country (provided that he does not use the service excessively, a threshold yet to be set). but that's not all. these lower data caps will allow european consumers to access more audiovisual content when travelling outside their borders.
those who know me know that i have always been a supporter of a short-stay visa exemption for citizens of ukraine. the visa liberalisation action plan has been the engine of far-reaching reforms. not least in the fight against corruption. i myself stood on maidan square in kiev several times in late 2013, early 2014, alongside a crowd of people who yearned for a society without corruption, for respect for the rule of law. we must recognize that a great deal of effort has been made, but that there is still a long way to go. and, unfortunately, visas are still being cheated. in kiev, shadow companies continue to operate selling visas, advertising openly on the internet and circumventing the schengen rules. they are shifting their scope to long-term visas for the purpose of visa exemption. i call on our ukrainian friends to make a real effort to combat such evil practices. the european union must also cooperate with all our member states and the european commission to ensure that the rules of the game are respected for all and to put an end to visa fraud.
i am sorry that certain political groups did not want to wait for the first evaluation by the commission. that said, i am not at all happy with the content of the resolution by rapporteur moraes. i have therefore worked with the epp group to propose a more positive alternative. let me emphasize a few points. firstly, transatlantic data transmission is essential to our economy, trade and security. no one can deny this, and so please let us not put it aside in this debate. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the privacy shield in the united states. second, with the privacy shield, we have achieved a level of data protection that has never been achieved before. a giant step in the right direction was taken. the rights and legal protection of eu citizens in the transfer of data to the us are improving dramatically. i also believe that the commission should always strive for the highest possible standard of data protection, but some political groups and members of parliament still feel that a copy of the european rules is sufficient. the united states, however, is an independent nation. although it is an important strategic ally of the eu, we must not forget that it is not a member of the union. i and my delegation strongly believe that having an operational privacy shield is in the best interests of our businesses, the european economy and the privacy of eu citizens.
the previous resolution on human rights violations in russia was adopted just four months ago. then and now the n-va delegation voted with conviction 'for'. we support the political and prisoners of conscience, persecuted journalists and human rights defenders in russia and the occupied territories such as crimea. officially, free speech is a constitutional right in russia. however, once you gain followers and thus become dangerous in the eyes of the regime, the law abruptly stops. you become a target of intimidation and persecution. alexei navalny, boris nemtsov, denis voronenkov, nikolai gorokhov, vladimir kara-murza, aleksandr litvinenko... they are the known victims of a regime that is increasingly tolerating less and less free speech, press freedom or opposition. the mass arrests during the 26 march demonstrations are disturbing. the eu must continue to send the message to the kremlin with one voice that respect for human rights and international agreements is a prerequisite for becoming a reliable partner again.
if i'm not mistaken, calling president lukashenko a dictator is actually a compliment: he is a despot, he is a tyrant. listen to what this stepfather of the belarusian nation said about the work of some journalists. i quote: if any of those journalists or politicians in my country were to speak like that, i would personally tear out their tongues. this is the tyranny of this tyranny. for years, he's been preoccupied with his cult of personality and his own power. he has narrowed the political playing field, he has narrowed the middle ground, and he has pushed aside anyone who could offer a political alternative. one political scientist summed it up this way: in belarus, you don't have to understand who is guilty or innocent. there are no laws, no courts. lukashenko himself is the law and the court. he judges, but his decisions are proven wrong. in the end, there is no fear and no conscience. lukashenko himself is the embodiment of fear and lack of conscience. we must not be indifferent. the eu must continue to give its full support to the democratic forces, defenders of human rights and fundamental freedoms in belarus europe's last dictatorship .
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to ask prime minister orban whether he remembers the first time that we met. mr orban, it was in a hotel in budapest in december 1989. i do not remember its name, but i remember our meeting because before it i had a meeting with sdsz, the old liberal party, and then i asked you, as the leader of fidesz, why you were not with your mother party in the meeting room and you explained why this was. i remember that it was just a few months before the successful participation of fidesz in the first free elections in hungary. by the way, at that time you were helped by george soros – i remember that – and had a programme at that time that was more or less a little bit more progressive, i should say, than the programme of the sdsz at that time. i would say that it was more social liberal and a little bit like emmanuel macron at that time. i would say that you were the emmanuel macron of hungary in 1989. i do not think that emmanuel macron will be pleased with what i have said today. i did not say it in french so i hope that not much will be made of it. but let us be honest: a lot has changed since 1990 and 1989 when we saw each other. you changed. you dumped your democratic principles and, in a certain way, you say openly that you want to create, not a liberal democracy, but that you want to have an illiberal state. at the moment the list of what you have done is a long one: harassing ngos, chasing critical media away, building walls, your attempt to reinstate the death penalty in your country, even when this is not possible based on our treaties, and now you have decided to close down a university. i would ask you how far will you go? what is the next thing? burning books on the square in front of the hungarian parliament, the so—called lajos kossuth square? will that be the next thing? perhaps the books of kartes or maybe of konrad, perhaps the books of what is one of my favourite writers in hungary, sandor marai, because sandor marai was a hungarian cosmopolitan who you are attacking at the moment. when i look at you, you seem to be proud of this and to think that it is fantastic that i can say all this here. what i am seeing more and more is not a proud conservative – because in the meanwhile you have become a proud conservative – but a sort of modern day version of the old communist hungary – economic protectionism, excessive nationalism, the search for an illiberal state – and you see enemies of the hungarian state everywhere. you see enemies in the energy sector, in the media, in the ngos and now also in the academic world. it is like having stalin or brezhnev back, but now in hungary. they also had that time of paranoia. it is not enough to have a majority in a democracy, but you have to chase them and go after them when they have another opinion. so, mr orban – and i will conclude with this – hungary became a member of the european union in 2004. you and your predecessors signed up to the values of the union and you know all these principles very well. even the left or the right in this house respect them. you have in fact violated every single one of these principles in the different cases that mr timmermans mentioned. yet you want to remain a member of the european union. well i have in fact got more respect for the decency of eurosceptics, who will at least say that they do not like the european union and its values and that they are leaving. you want to continue getting money from the european funds, taking the european union’s money, but you do not want the european values. they are not for you. what would you call that? not very courageous, i should say, and certainly not in line with a politician based on principles. so my question to you is to ask whether you think that it is time to make a choice again, as you made that choice when you became, after being a liberal democrat, a little bit nationalist and a conservative? is it not the time to ask yourself in your soul how you wish to be remembered in the future? do you want to be remembered as somebody who liberated your country, hungary, from communism – and you did that – or do you want to be commemorated as an eternal enemy of our open european democratic society? that is the choice that you have to make now. (applause)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i wish to welcome the prime minister to the european parliament. prime minister, i really appreciate your presence and indeed, as manfred said, it is better to debate directly. mr orbán, we were actually born in the same year and i no longer recognise the defender of freedom and democracy that became known to me under your name back in 1989. we greens also have our share of criticism for a number of political orientations of the european union, but what i do not understand is when you start comparing the eu with the soviet union. come on! if brussels were moscow, we would have tanks from the eu in london right now. we do not. on the contrary, i am struck by the fact that a number of the laws that you are passing in your country find their inspiration in putin’s moscow, which is hardly anyone’s dream, right? no, i really do not understand you because you have a privilege. twice you enjoyed an overwhelming majority. your people trusted you and i just imagine – you might laugh at me – but if my party enjoyed a two-thirds majority in any member state – well, three times, i agree! – i would not be afraid of an independent press because it would stimulate the public debate in the country and mobilise the collective intelligence we need. i would not be afraid of a strong and independent judiciary, because checks and balances is what we need in democracy. i would not be afraid of a vibrant civil society, because it would help me spot problem areas that i need to solve. i would not be afraid of leading-edge universities because they would nurture talent in my country, and i would say ‘even better if some of the funding comes from abroad because it enriches my country.’ it is not just that i would not be afraid of these things, i would cherish them, because i think they would help to deliver a better society for my citizens. so what are you afraid of? a bit like guy verhofstadt said, since hungary enjoys the financial solidarity of the eu, and rightfully so, it should abide by all the obligations of the eu, but this is not the first reason. the first reason is do these things, be an open society, because it is good for hungary. hungary will be stronger. hungary will be a better place for its people by having a diversified free press, strong democratic checks and balances, a vibrant civil society and leading-edge universities. i would like to conclude with one thing, the refugee issue, and of course you expected me to do that. mr orbán, i must say that we are utterly appalled at the way your country has been treating refugees. true enough, hungary sits in an uncomfortable situation at the outer border of the eu. but instead of directing your anger at refugees themselves, you should direct your energy towards your fellow eu member states so that they help you in welcoming them. mr orbán – and you did it again today – you often refer to christian values. well, i must tell you one thing: as a christian, i find nowhere in the gospel that the stranger should be locked up and sent back. what i read there is that we should welcome and protect. (applause)
prime minister of hungary. thank you, mr president. i think it's only fitting that i answer some important questions. first of all, i want to thank you all for this debate. thank you for your attention to hungary, and thank you for your opinions. those who have publicly attacked hungary, the hungarian people, and the decisions they have made here, well, i would like to thank those representatives in particular. thank you for your solidarity. there were hungarian commentators. i don't want to qualify the attitude of hungarians here in brussels attacking their country, i believe that these debates should be held at home. i would like to say to mr verhofstadt that i have the impression that you are trying to tell the hungarians what to do. please leave this to the hungarian electorate, they can decide this every four years. i would like to thank vice-president timmermans for the speech he gave. thank you very much for offering an open and substantive dialogue, we are ready to discuss all the questions you have raised and i see that many of them will be easily resolved. i am unfortunately obliged to respond to my colleague mr pittella, because i feel that he has treated me unfairly in taking his remarks very harshly. mr. deputy, allow me to correct one of your thoughts: migrants do not want to go to hungary. the migrants want to go through hungary to austria, germany and sweden. we're actually protecting austria, sweden, and germany. we are actually observing the schengen agreement. and i find it strange that you, as a member of the european parliament, attack hungary because hungary is complying with the schengen treaty, not primarily for its own sake, but for the sake of the germans, the swedes and the austrians. we hungarians think that we deserve recognition rather than attack. the comments that are being made in the european people's party to try to create resistance to my party, i have to tell you that this is a if i hurt someone, i apologize, we know this well , this is an old communist tactic. you want to salem the european people's party. they're probably trying to sabotage it so they can be stronger here. we know this, this is how the communists destroyed democracy in hungary. i would recommend to the european people's party not to accept this solution. ladies and gentlemen, our position on immigration is clear. illegal immigration must be stopped, the screening of refugees and migrants must be done outside the european union, and people in trouble must be brought to help where there is trouble, not brought into the european union. who doesn't make the transfers? my dear fellow pittella, less than 10% of the population has been relocated. it wasn't hungary that didn't participate, it was only a thousand people. 10% of the frame size was moved. it is clear that the policy of relocation, of mandatory quotas, has failed. it is unnecessary to force it, because those states which do not openly oppose us do not enforce it either. this was a bad idea. if a bad policy idea turns out to be a failure, then it's worth stopping and looking for another solution. i have to say a word about the money. look, the money that hungary gets from the european union is not charity. cohesion policy is good for everyone. every single member state of the european union benefits. you make money on it, the people who give you money make money on it. not a few. let's talk about this openly. net contributors are the beneficiaries of cohesion policy. your officers talk about it openly. they also give numbers, i won't quote them, of what percentage of the money you give us goes back to your country. i am convinced that this cohesion policy is the right thing to do. we have abolished tariffs, opened our markets and allowed the free flow of capital, when we were so poor after communism, so short of capital as church mice. i am convinced that without cohesion policy there can be no fair competition. you cannot ask us, honourable members, to keep our mouths shut, and you cannot talk to us as if you were giving us gifts and we were your bought and paid for. we cannot accept this position, hungary must reject it. as for hungary being some kind of authoritarian political system, and thanks to me personally, although obviously it's not about me, but about ten million hungarians, i would like to inform you that i spent 16 years in opposition in parliament and i'm just starting my 12th year in government. and i'm one of the few european executives who, when he lost, didn't go into business, didn't sit on high-paying boards, didn't give guest lectures for huge sums of money. when we lost, my party and i personally, we stayed in politics and took on the opposition debates and fought and won back the people's trust. to accuse such a country and such a ruling party of authoritarian regimes and to mention authoritarian countries in relation to us, i think it's simply not fair and it's not fair. ladies and gentlemen, i think many things, i think many things about george soros, but i don't think that he would ever in his life give a scholarship to anyone because he thought that he would buy their opinion for life. so i have to reject the assumptions that are made. and finally, i have to say a word about illiberal democracy, because you mentioned it. the thing is, in central europe, they think that if the liberals don't win or they're not part of the government, then there's no democracy. we've had enough of this. the truth is, we think that if the liberals don't win, we can still have democracy. illiberal democracy is when liberals don't win. thank you for your kind attention.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, at the conclusion of this debate, let me draw a few conclusions for the commission. i will be looking forward to the reply by the hungarian authorities to the notification we have sent on the law on higher education. in our view, this law is clearly in violation of eu law, so i hope we can get a response to that. i have to say that the only thing the central european university is asking is to be left alone to do what it does well. i come from a country where, for centuries, hungarian scholars came to study and also to enrich my country. we live in a european union where, through the erasmus programme, the cross-fertilisation of young minds across the european union is one of the biggest assets of this european union and one of the biggest success stories. we should cherish this academic freedom, this exchange of ideas, and this way of promoting a vision of the world that is open to other views. with regard to other views, i fully respect different visions and opinions about the future of the european union. everybody is entitled to his own opinion, but not to his own facts. i know we live in a time when very often, when we have strong opinions and they are not in line with the facts, we assume that the facts must be wrong but, on this specific case, the commission will stick to the facts. i would be grateful to the hungarian authorities if, in their procedure on ‘stop brussels’, they would take into account the facts we have presented in reaction to the questions put to the hungarian population. i think we deserve that. that is how we work in the european union. i look forward to continuing to work with hungary in this. regarding this debate, we are not going to solve these issues only by taking legal steps. the commission will take legal steps when legal steps are warranted, when the treaties are violated, but we will only reach a consensus or an idea of where we need to go collectively in the european union if we have a debate. if you will allow me, mr president, i want to make one remark. from the extreme right, because of their lack of arguments, we only get insults. since nobody reacted, i want to react: i was deeply, deeply aggravated by the vile attack by ms von storch on stockholm and on sweden. i think this is completely unacceptable. this is not the way we should have a debate about our common future. we can ask of each other to disagree profoundly, but to have respect for each other. (applause)
in writing. prime minister orban, we are not blind to the situation in hungary. we know you're facing an aggressive, extremist party. we know that hungary is on the front line of the refugee crisis. but other countries, faced with a similar situation, have reacted very differently. however strong your language about your favourite scapegoat 'brussels', extremist parties always become a step more aggressive, more negative. if i were you, i would change the tone completely and emphasize the support - both monetary and other - that hungary receives from 'brussels' every year. eur 25 billion for investments in infrastructure, jobs, research and education between now and 2020, or eur 2 532 per hungarian. why not emphasize that crucial european solidarity which benefits every hungarian citizen and the public budget? it is difficult, if not impossible, to understand how someone can continue to attack the european union with such fury while brussels, or rather the other member states, are investing billions in the hungarian economy and citizens. solidarity is a two-way street. we are prepared to continue our constructive cooperation. we are counting on you to do the same with the european union and to offer a robust solution - not window-dressing - for the central european university.
the commission has already taken action on this. my question will be very simple. you speak of harmonization and state that you are opposed to it. i think that what is being proposed here is not harmonisation but a minimum, minimum standards, and the search for convergence. are you also against convergence in europe on minimum standards?
europe must protect. protect against economic malaise, against terrorism, against fiscal injustice. hard measures were necessary but also created an image of a cold europe. but today you are proving with your proposal that europe can and must be warm. i would like to make two points. firstly, in my country, belgium, many of these social principles are already largely acquired rights. but in many other lands, that is not the case. and i cannot stress enough that better alignment of social rights in europe, from east to west, is the only guarantee for a strengthened market in the long term. secondly, no one is more convinced than i am of the necessary role of the social partners. i expect them to be open and accountable. the time for ballooning and whining about an anti-social europe is over. now is the time to sit down and talk. and a constructive spirit, giving and taking, is a sign of courage. and you are already courageous, commissioner, as this proposal proves. if everyone at this table had half your perseverance, this pillar would be a real social house.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i am not going to repeat what has been said on the situation in turkey; i think that we have a common assessment, commissioner. what is more important is what you have asked us: what our view is in the light of the gymnich meeting. together with mr weber, i have published a common op-ed article, you could say, on that in a number of newspapers, because i think it is critical now to go into a new cooperation and to make a new proposal to turkey. i think that we have to stop accession negotiations. in fact, they are no longer accession negotiations; they are in fact suspended – not formally suspended, but, in fact, suspended. the only thing we are doing is still paying eur 650 million every year for the pre—accession process, and it does not help these people in turkey, journalists, or civil society in general. on the contrary, i think that continuing this so-called not formally suspended ‘accession’ is a cover-up that even makes it possible for some people in the turkish authorities to further clamp down on civil society, on journalists, on the opposition, and so on. our proposal is to reconsider that and ask: why not do what is in the treaty? the treaty says that we can make association agreements with neighbourhood countries. why not make a new association agreement and propose to turkey such a new association agreement where you have two chapters: one chapter on economics, trade, customs union (we could propose an offer of an upgraded customs union, even further than what is on the table now); and at the same time, the second track, if on the turkish side they open civil society, they agree to restore democracy in a certain sense. i do not want to call it a ‘helsinki process’ and to make a comparison to the strategy we followed with the soviet union (your remember that), but, in a certain way, that is what it is: a two—track approach. we should then use the eur 640 or 650 million to help civil society there as a part of such a new strategy. that seems to me the new – even broadly supported – way forward that you could give as a message to the gymnich meeting on saturday.
- i'm the reporter. i must say that i am also very pleased to have mr borg here today representing the council. the council once excelled in its absence, and your presence, mr borg, is a very good thing because during the debate you will hear comments, you will hear calls which may lead to better financial management, but for which we also need the member states. i hope you will take the messages we are conveying today to the council itself. i am rapporteur for the committee of the regions, for the discharge of the committee of the regions, the economic and social committee and the european data protection supervisor, and also for the discharge to the council itself. as far as the council is concerned, i would recommend that the discharge be postponed for the umpteenth time, the seventh time in a row. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. in the committee on budgetary control, mrs grässle, our chairman, and i have already had a very constructive discussion with the secretary-general of the council. we have also set up a group in the committee on budgetary control to look at these problems. in fact, we intend to come up with a text which can then be submitted to coreper where we hope that the conflict over what we can have access to, what documents we can have access to, what information we can be given will be resolved in order to give a proper discharge to the council, to resolve that conflict and then hopefully to ensure that this long-running conflict is swept out of the way. i would suggest that the other three reports be discharged. in all these reports, i used the same methodology, asked the same questions. where do we get our money's worth? is there a result-oriented approach within these institutions? what about transparency in those institutions? what about the anti-corruption policy? how do these institutions treat their staff? is there a good working atmosphere? what about the male-female ratio in the middle management and in the top positions? those are the kinds of questions that have been asked. i've been to all three of these institutions. i've spoken to the leading figures in all three institutions. it was a very constructive conversation, and i learned a lot. the approach differs from institution to institution, hence the recommendation in my three reports which differ from institution to institution. but we can effectively grant a discharge. i would also like to say very explicitly here that i really appreciate the work of the court of auditors, mr lehne. what you're doing is amazing. we can really get to work with you and we have learned from your work for the eighth year in a row that the commission's budget has an average margin of error of 3.8%. we all know that's still too much. we also all know that's not necessarily fraud. it's definitely not that. but it's money that should not have been paid or otherwise. the court of auditors has been saying for years that the member states, mr borg, knew or could have known that certain expenditure, certain grants should not have been paid. there is therefore a major responsibility on the shoulders of those member states. i would ask you to open a discussion on this in the council, to open a debate to strengthen the responsibility of these finance ministers within the member states. we need to be more alert. the member states must take greater responsibility. i thank mr zeller for including in his report the recommendation and also the warning that the share of climate-related expenditure in the european budget is far too low. the average is now 17.6%. if this is not remedied - and we agree on this in the committee on budgetary control - we shall not reach the 20% target. we will then be unable to achieve the necessary efforts that we have undertaken internationally in the framework of the paris convention, the climate agreement. i also join with mr zeller in calling for special attention to be paid to the whole problem of shadow budgets. there are many financial mechanisms used to support union policies, but they are kept completely outside the european budget. the control of it is very difficult and that can lead to a lack of responsibility. this can lead to policy inconsistency and unnecessary risk-taking. so there is clearly a need for more transparency and i am very grateful to mr oettinger for his commitment as commissioner to eventually bring these various shadow budgets back into the union budget. i think that's a good thing. as regards the parliament's budget, i fully agree with what mr de jong has just said, particularly as regards the attention paid to the fraudulent practices of european political parties and political foundations - indeed, usually very recent phenomena. there's a lot of hustling going on. we have found that a number of journalists have, over a period of weeks, raised these fraudulent practices. we need to strengthen controls within the european parliament. we can't leave that to investigative journalism.
in writing. this afternoon, the european parliament will vote in favour of binding rules for textile suppliers and the clothing sector. the respect of workers' rights by manufacturers must become an obligation if products are to be sold in our territory. textile workers, often young women or children, work at hellish speeds. in bangladesh, 47.5% of workers work between 60 and 98 hours per week, 75% more than 48 hours per week. discrimination based on sex or age is widespread. more than a quarter of workers are paid less than €50 a month, below the national minimum wage. europe cannot remain blind and deaf to these human rights violations. in concluding its trade agreements, it must make any trade agreement conditional on respect for the rights of workers. we can weld clothes; you can't buy the workers' rights or the human rights of those who make them!
in writing. i invite you to support this report. the text put to the vote encourages the eib to continue its efforts to overcome the investment deficit, market failures and sectoral shortcomings and to invest in projects and operations with real added value in order to achieve a stronger european cohesion in economic, social and territorial terms, a more favourable investment climate, a higher employment rate and the restoration of sustainable growth throughout the union. it also recalls that supporting economic recovery, sustainable growth and strengthening cohesion is a key objective and that the eib needs to better anticipate structural challenges, in particular those related to the reindustrialisation of europe and the digital knowledge-based economy, in order to generate new economic opportunities and innovation and to encourage the development of a circular economy and better use of renewable energy, in line with environmental, climate and energy objectives.
madam president, madam commissioner, i thank you for this important tool, which says something about the europe we want. in education, the role of the european union is to build bridges between the different actors and policies, whether social, economic, youth or education, to show that paths are possible. member states have agreed to establish certifications which refer to the european framework. we need to organise the portability of qualifications in europe so that they respond to the realities and developments in society. the european certification framework is a crucial instrument for improving the employability and mobility of learners. there are as many relevant pathways as there are individuals. it is essential that the courses offered are flexible and that training is accessible in order to improve skills and progress towards a qualification, towards certification, i.e. recognition of acquired skills. the issue of mobility is important, especially for young people and crossborder regions, who are familiar with the issue of recognition of skills and qualifications. the revision of the common eu-wide certification framework is intended to link the certification systems of the various member states. this work must be able to draw on the reinvigorated social dialogue in order to establish a better match between qualifications and the labour market and to integrate the issues of mobility and lifelong learning.
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. every day, large amounts of food are lost in the various links of the food chain. the numbers are indeed mind-boggling: globally, 1.3 billion tons of food is lost every year, about a third of all food production. in the eu, an estimated 88 million tonnes of food is lost every year, equivalent to 173 kg per person per year. it is obvious that we must put a stop to this. food waste is bad for people, the environment and the economy. moreover, food waste is at odds with our ambition to move to a circular economy, where we are just fully committed to waste prevention and we try to reuse or recycle as much of our precious raw materials as possible. i therefore support the priorities set out in this resolution: halve food loss by 2030, develop a concrete action plan to achieve this goal, and make a strong commitment to awareness and prevention. the key to success is undoubtedly the involvement of all players in the food chain and a key role for regional and local authorities to ensure that tailor-made products are delivered. flanders, the nation i represent here, is taking the lead and has already developed its own action plan to reduce food loss by 15% by 2020. all actors, from farmer to board, are represented in a chain of consultation. many interesting initiatives are emerging, such as the chefs charter of horeca flanders or the green vent scan. the donation of food is being facilitated digitally through online platforms and apps. the extension of the 0% vat rate for the distribution of unsold foodstuffs also has a positive effect. consumers are also given tips, information is given on the expiry dates and 'similar' fruit and vegetables are back on the shelves. the compulsory collection and recycling of bio-waste and the encouragement of home composting are also important in the fight against food waste. a recent visit with some colleagues to the ecowerf composting plant in leuven shows the enormous potential in this respect. in short: the fight against food waste is a matter for everyone and governments should set a good example. let's work together on that.
for the ecr group the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further worsened. it is blamed on the difficulty of filling those places because of insufficient cooperation from the member states, but reports from the commission show that greece and italy are failing to organise the flow. for example, there is a huge backlog of registrations in italy. so it is unfair to point the finger only at the north. furthermore, it is not true that hardly any asylum seekers were relocated. most asylum seekers who entered europe continued their journey to northern and western europe. the dublin rules on reception and registration in the first member state of arrival, from which one can be subsequently relocated, are hardly respected in practice. the n-va insists that the external borders must be closed first, otherwise the vacuum cleaner will be opened. in concrete terms, we must return every asylum seeker who illegally enters the eu with the help of human smugglers to a safe place in the region of origin. as long as the eu continues to reward illegal arrivals with papers, families will continue to risk their lives on the road. we must therefore move to a system of legal entry, coupled with a strict maximum limit.
i am very pleased that this subject is being discussed today in the plenary in strasbourg. i am only very sorry that the council is not here today. we have to look at the situation of the people on the ground. in the camps in italy and greece, 23 000 unaccompanied children are being held in inhumane conditions. i've been to such camps. there is no water, no access to health care, no school. these kids are victims, not perpetrators. europol said last year that 10 000 children in europe are missing when they cross the border. where are they? in the prostitution? in another country? they were killed for their organs? i'd like to make one plea here today. each member state must fulfil its obligations. let's prioritize the unaccompanied minors. they deserve our protection. that is europe.
the european commission's reflection note contains some interesting starting points. the commission is often wrongly, but often rightly, accused of being concerned only with liberal ideas. it is very important that limits be set now. it is interesting that social and environmental standards should be placed on an equal footing with economic principles. it is also interesting that we need to invest much more in the european union to make our people resilient and to enable a fair distribution of wealth. but, commissioner, we must be careful not to write only interesting notes. recent surveys show that the population remains pro-european but raises serious questions about the solutions offered by europe. you gotta butter the fish. in other words: we must re-examine our trade agreements, our investment policy and our fiscal policy within the european union.
for years, economists, multinationals, bankers, politicians and the media have overstated and exaggerated the benefits of globalization while downplaying its disadvantages. the commission now acknowledges on half a page that globalisation also has negative effects, but then concludes that there is no turning back. what is going wrong in european industry is being covered up by another globalisation fund, which is supposed to mask the pain of the most alarming factory closures. in this global world there is always someone who wants or has to sell his labour somewhere for less money and less social protection. hyper-globalization is leading to an economy where products are made by children's hands in the east and consumed by the beneficiaries in the west. as a result: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment. we need a new economy that does not isolate itself but also does not naively exploit the opportunities of the free market. in short, an economy for our own european people.
mr president, in 2011, an oecd study indicated that globalisation was creating inequalities. today, in 2017, i thank the commission for having effectively recognised these inequalities. however, the commission's concrete response does not go in the direction of better managing globalisation. on the contrary, it is a boost to a dozen or so free trade agreements built on the global model of the years before the 2008 crisis. there is a certain kind of inconsistency between your thoughts and your actions. the commission, it seems to me, is a prisoner of the ideology of maximum openness, while others here in this house are locked into total closure. in my view, both of these paths are dangerous because they destroy well-being. yet there are ways to control this globalization. if you are short of ideas, i will give you some: for example, tax conditionality, the fight against dumping, with the mandatory sustainable development chapter with sanctions, or the protection of investors, but not against the public forces. today, all these ideas are not being put into practice by the commission and we are therefore disappointed.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank members very much for a very wide—ranging discussion. it was good that members brought many different dimensions to the discussion. first, let me say a couple of words about the nature of the paper. this is not an action plan. this is a reflection paper, one of five reflection papers intended to promote wide discussion, not only here but also in member states, amongst the stakeholders – national parliaments, governments and also ngos and various organisations. we need to give direction to our policies on how to shape globalisation. my second point is that the eu itself is an example of rules—based globalisation. we are a product of globalisation. we deliberately decided to create a borderless europe where people – students, the labour force, whoever – can travel across borders without any difficulty. we have created erasmus, the single market – which is, by the way, a free-trade agreement – and common action towards climate policy, and we are about to create the circular economy regulatory environment. so this is what globalisation is in europe, and we should take this elsewhere as well, shaping globalisation so that it is rules-based and based on values we believe in. many members rightly stated that we should not send out the message that the eu, parliament or the commission can address all the negative effects. in fact, many of the tools which need to be used are in the hands of the member states. education and social policies, for instance, are in the hands of member states. i will give you a couple of concrete examples of what member states can do. we have to strengthen the resilience of individuals and societies. there, for instance, the quality of education and the quality of teacher training is of the utmost importance. the better quality education we have, the better prepared our citizens are for changes. i like the word ‘resilience’ because it means that, whatever happens, we are resilient in facing challenges and we are strong enough and innovative enough to harness the negative effects of globalisation. many members, quite rightly, raised the issue of trade policy. this is part of globalisation. globalisation is not only about trade, but trade is part of it. for instance, the eu—korea trade agreement was agreed some five or six years ago, and since then our trade has increased by eur 15 billion euros. as we know that eur 1 billion of additional trade or exports support roughly 14 000 new jobs, increasing trade to korea has supported some 200 000 jobs in europe. i will put this figure in a local context. the country i know best is typically considered to have a nordic high—cost welfare society. regardless of high costs and a welfare-society structure, a well—known european car manufacturer established a factory in finland. this was possible because of robotisation. i do not know which part of the world the robots’ components came from, but nevertheless robots made it possible to produce cars in a high—cost welfare society. the town in which the factory is situated is the town with the highest number of robots per capita, and it is the very same town that has the highest number of vacancies per capita. so this is another example of globalisation. also, thanks to our trade agreement between the eu and korea, those cars manufactured in a high—cost welfare society can be sold to korea. that is just one example. another example come from sweden. you may remember that when the car manufacturer saab went bankrupt, some five years ago, it was a big shock to the town of trollhättan, where roughly 3 000 people lost their jobs. since then, labour unions, together with employers’ organisations, public authorities and the private sector have worked together, and today three out of four people who lost their jobs have found a new job and the unemployment rate is lower than it was before the bankruptcy. thanks to active policies and action at local level, they have managed to create new opportunities for citizens. my final point is that we must be a shaper of globalisation. i very much liked it when some colleagues said that we should be not a rule-taker but a rule-maker. that is why the commission has proposed an external investment plan, because we want to influence sustainable development in our developing partner countries, for instance in african countries. the better we manage to support inclusive economic growth in africa, the less reason there is for irregular migration and, of course, quality of life and fairness will increase in those countries. i hope that you will bring this discussion to your constituencies, promote a forward—looking discussion on globalisation and try to identify which policies are in the hands of the member states or local authorities and which policies are in our hands here, as european legislators and decision makers, which should be taken forward in order to shape globalisation in a positive manner.
europe has one of the most open economies in the world, and trade with our partners has created a lot of prosperity and jobs. but elsewhere in the world, our companies have been pushed to the limit too many times. we can't afford to be naive. the time has come to put an end to the excesses of wild free trade and one-way traffic: not with closed borders, but mainly through a level playing field and protecting our crown jewels. we cannot just let our power stations, airports and telephone networks fall into the hands of aggressive state-owned companies from outside the eu. the eu must act on plans supported by germany, france and italy to monitor any possible outside investment in european strategic sectors and to halt it if necessary. globalisation also means shipping goods from one continent to another (and sometimes back). it may be cheaper now, but will it be cheaper if we take into account the full environmental cost? unlike in europe (through ets and non-ets), this impact is much less or not accounted for in other continents. this must be urgently brought to the table, even if others in the world trade organization do not want to join.
in writing. it is positive that the european commission is now openly admitting in the discussion note on 'managing globalisation' what many have been saying for a long time: globalisation has not only advantages, but also many disadvantages. there's a difference between words and deeds. this is sometimes subtly reflected in the commission's choice of words: many europeans are also concerned. they associate globalisation with job losses, social injustice or low standards in the areas of environment, health and privacy and fear that globalisation will erode their traditions and identity. this is not a matter of mere perception but of bitter socioeconomic and ecological reality. the commission says that after this debate we will be better able to 'offer sustainable and fair solutions that meet the expectations of the european citizen'. i can see that. the desire to conclude bilateral free trade agreements such as ceta and ttip is still strong. these conventions, as has been amply demonstrated, will not contribute to more sustainable and social standards. this kind of free trade policy does not lead to a race to the top, but to a race to the bottom. it would be a credit to the eu to recognise this incoherent attitude.
mr president, the fight against food waste is probably one of the most blatant failures of our european policies. fifty european texts deal with this, more than that: directives, regulations, resolutions and despite this, each european household throws away the equivalent of 400 euros of food every year. it is an unacceptable waste, even immoral, when we know - and they have been quoted - the poverty figures in europe. the commission has no choice but to be ambitious, to put the gun to the fire and to stand with the european parliament in achieving our food waste reduction targets of 30% by 2025 and 50% by 2030. two points are essential: clarifying labelling, on the one hand, as has already been said, because 'preferably before' and 'up to' are real highways for waste, and thinking globally, on the other hand, if we want to reduce it from producer to consumer. agriculture, fisheries, the environment, health, vat - all these sectors are involved, but we need a driving force, a real will, a real strategy from the european union.
mrs mogherini, we are talking here today about the greatest humanitarian crisis facing the world, a crisis that has a major impact on the region. six million children are dependent on humanitarian aid. we are talking about europe's strategy here today, but frankly it is not very clear. too little, too late if you ask me. you are advocating political dialogue. we are a major humanitarian donor. all of that is true. but we're counting on the united nations very, very heavily. how credible is that if the united nations fails to condemn the latest poison gas attacks? we need to do more to bring the perpetrators to justice. i didn't hear you about the united states. i didn't hear you about russia. if we are talking about a real strategy for syria, i ask you: can it be a little more? can we go a little faster? so that we can save those children.
on behalf of the alde group. madam mogherini, i would like to thank you for the message of hope you have brought to the particularly difficult debate we have to have today. you are giving a message of hope, not only for christians, but for all religious groups that today are victims of persecution, discrimination, violence and murder. as regards the points you have raised, we must continue to press for religious freedom and, as europe, for respect for human rights worldwide. these are the things we must continue to do as europe, as the european union. we have to bet on that. that is why i am very pleased with the points you have listed. i would also like to stress that we must focus on punishing the perpetrators. as long as we allow impunity to exist, discrimination and violence will continue. we must also make a commitment to this as europe. it is a sign of genuine respect for human rights that you call to account those who perpetrate discrimination and murder. finally, mrs mogherini, you know that we as liberals attach great importance to peace and stability in the region. i do not know how many times i have discussed the middle east, israel and palestine with you here. well, we shall be putting an important resolution to the vote on thursday. the negotiations on this will take place tomorrow morning and we will work very hard with all parties to make a further appeal to israel and palestine for a two-state solution. if we take that step, i think the violence will decrease and perhaps there will be peace, which will also allow religious minorities to live together in peace. you have our support to go on and continue to advocate for human rights in the rest of the world.
mr president, two months ago, with the support of the united nations high commissioner for refugees, i had the opportunity to visit the dadaab refugee camp, which was set up in the 1990s and at that time had 90,000 places. today, it hosts more than 260,000 refugees. east africa is currently experiencing the most alarming humanitarian crisis due to drought, with somalia once again at the epicentre. the somali population is the largest in the camp, accounting for over 90% of the population. in 2011, drought had already killed 260,000 people. we must act with urgency. the igad summit recognised the role and generosity of neighbouring countries in taking on the international protection of refugees, despite their own socio-economic, environmental and national security challenges. however, i now call for a global sharing of the responsibility for this region. today's resolution is in that direction. it calls on europe to accept its share of relocations, as do canada and australia. it supports voluntary returns but acknowledges that such returns are difficult in the current context of drought. it knows that dadaab will not be able to close its doors and therefore asks for an increase in aid. it also calls for more development aid for the region and local communities, who are now bearing the brunt of this migration, but also for the eu's trust fund for africa to be properly funded and effective. the resolution calls for greater burden-sharing and sustainable solutions for social, economic and environmental development.
- a writer. tomorrow, 17 may, the rainbow flag will be flying in many places in my country, flanders. i am also pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the council. i'm proud of that. the lgbti community is fortunately free to fight with us. but we also remain vigilant against homophobia. on the international day against homophobia, there is little to celebrate. worldwide, intolerance is growing, we see persecution and even the death penalty for those who want to be "different" and yet themselves. what has happened in chechnya in the past few days has shocked us. it's still winter in the caucasus. maybe literally, but certainly figuratively. the persecution of at least a hundred chechens for being gay, the torture, murder and solitary confinement in concentration camps are abhorrent and unacceptable and can only be condemned in the strongest terms. president kadirov's reactions as if there are no gays in his country show the coldness of society and the reluctance of the regime. no one can feel protected when the government opens a witch hunt. what about kremlin boss putin? nothing new under the sun. he denies it. he is an outspoken supporter of the chechen government and repressive towards homosexual sympathizers in moscow and st. petersburg. the kremlin is once again playing a very questionable role. a recent report by the council of europe points to russia's unwillingness to make any effort to bring about a positive change in the human rights situation in chechnya. the horrifying facts call for an investigation. the perpetrators must be prosecuted and the victims compensated. but no one believes russia will launch a serious investigation. an independent international investigation is required. and so the question for the commission is what will it do to implement our own lgbti guidelines. it will take more than expressing concern. all victims of the persecution, all protesters must be released immediately and the authorities concerned must comply with their international obligations. a ruthless regime only understands plain language. i expect the commissioner to do the same.
the president, commissioner, colleagues. like probably all of you, i was deeply shocked when i saw the footage from chechnya. as soon as i heard the news, the images of world war ii came to mind. men suspected of being homosexual are locked up in camps. they're trying to improve. and then when they are released - if they are released at all - they are threatened with being killed by their own family. it is happening at the stroke of europe, in 2017, on the eve of the international day against homophobia and on the eve of the gay pride in brussels. the international community is celebrating in brussels on saturday, although there is no reason to celebrate. i am glad to hear your strong statement, commissioner. we need to increase the pressure. that's very important. we must punish those who are guilty. that's important too. finally, we must ensure the protection of homosexuals. that means: i think that we should be thinking about visas and how we can protect them. that's a priority on our program now. thank you.
mr president, the freedom to be gay is a right, but not in chechnya. president kadyrov has decided to exterminate all homosexuals in his territory by may 26th and, by the way, some political opponents who dared to challenge his power. several reliable sources have documented the existence of a concentration camp-like camp, where dozens of gay men are taken, locked up, tortured and, in some cases, killed. parents are forced by the police to kill their gay children to avoid the entire family being incarcerated. the authorities call it "washing honor with blood". when chechen officials are asked about the bloody purge, they say it is impossible because homosexuality does not exist in chechnya. a response that might be laughable if it didn't make you so sick. all these potential or proven victims have no hope of survival but us. our european values do not allow us to remain blind and deaf to such a tragedy. we must offer emergency visas, as canada is proposing. it is no longer time for talk, but for action.
thank you, chairman. subsidiarity and proportionality are two important principles in the european union which must be guaranteed at all times. the report contains some very good elements in this respect, such as the call for more extensive and factually based analyses of legislative proposals in terms of subsidiarity and proportionality. what i do have a problem with is the call for - and i quote - more europe, not less europe, to meet the challenges, both internal and external. i think that brexit and the rise of extreme parties show that europe needs to go in a different direction, that we need to move towards a europe that has the support of the citizens. i therefore regret that the way is not being paved for a red card which should give the national and regional parliaments the possibility of definitively undoing legislative proposals. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i think on brexit everything has been set: we have a mandate and the european union, the 27 other member states and the three institutions have a unified position. everything is also going well with the negotiation directives that will be approved on monday. so i think there is only one thing to do now: to start the negotiations, and to start them as fast as possible. yes, we have to wait for the outcome of the british election, but after 8 june let’s start. i want to talk about something that is related to brexit, and that is the future of the european union and the reform of the european union, because it would be a mistake to put all our energy only into brexit in the coming years. at least the same energy, if not more energy, has to be put into the reform and the future of the european union. three times in a row now, the nationalists and the populists have been beaten – in austria, in the netherlands and in france – and i don’t think that happened by accident. i think that brexit played an important role in this. people all over europe have been shocked by the decision of great britain to leave the european union. don’t misunderstand me; people are today very critical towards the european union – and for good reason – but what they don’t want to do is what britain did: to leave the european union. it’s very clear that the austrians didn’t want an auxit, the dutch didn’t want a nexit and the french didn’t want a frexit. they say: reform the european union, yes; leave the european union, no bloody way. that is the message of the people of the european union today. but there is one mistake we cannot make, and that is to think ‘oh, it’s over; populism and nationalism have been defeated’ – and i have heard this reaction all too often in european circles – ‘macron won, le pen lost, relief, let’s go to the normal agenda and let’s do business as usual’. well, i think that is the one mistake that we cannot make. people voted for macron for change and not for the status quo; not for a standstill. they voted for a radical change in france, but also in europe, and so the best thing to do is in fact to back his reformist agenda – a reformist agenda that we all know now. a reformist agenda with the new european budget, minister of finance for europe, european treasury, european investment bonds and the transnational lists that he is proposing. i have to tell you, manfred, that i was relieved to hear on monday the positive reaction in berlin: a reaction a little bit different from the ‘nein, nein, nein’ of mr schäuble and of a lot of german press since the arrival of mr macron. i like more merkel’s ‘wir schaffen das’, as she repeated at the press conference with macron. so i think it is really time now to use this brexit negotiation for a new vision, mr tusk, and for a new future for europe. it is, in fact, a future that our young people want: look at what is happening – pulse of europe in more than 100 cities all over europe, in the squares, young people are coming together and asking for more, and a democratic, european union. what do you call this? i call it audacity. to paraphrase danton: ‘de l’audace, encore de l’audace, toujours de l’audace et l’europe sera sauvée.’
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that the council and parliament have been able to reach a broad agreement on a negotiating mandate with the united kingdom, a mandate without any revanchism or naivety. we are particularly pleased that the safeguarding of citizens' rights, which are at risk as a result of brexit, has been placed at the top of the list of priorities. but what does brexit tell us? have we really learned anything from this? i hear people saying that we have avoided the worst in austria, the netherlands and france, but i would like to warn us against any triumphalism. national populist forces are now reaching considerable electoral levels. when you add that to the abstentions and the votes cast, you can see how much the confidence of our citizens in their institutions and their political representatives is being shaken. in addition to a sense of loss of identity, this may be caused by a feeling of being downgraded or fear of being downgraded. the international monetary fund has just confirmed that globalisation and, above all, technological change are the main causes of the loss of the share of labour income in wealth, a wealth that is increasingly unequally shared. in the face of this, a timid awareness seems to be emerging, even in davos, even in the wto and even in the commission. we're starting to realize that our economic system leaves many of our fellow citizens stranded. but do you seriously think that for technological change and globalisation to work for everyone, it is enough to give everyone training that makes them employable and then it is enough to activate the unemployed workers, that is to put them under pressure, the same pressure that pushes them more and more to vote for the parties that surf on anger and stoke fears? rather, we think that in a world where increasing inequality seems inevitable, where machine work is increasingly replacing human work, where an mit study shows us that every robot installed takes out seven human jobs, and where technology platforms like uber are increasingly making work more precarious, we need to rethink both the organization of work and our taxation and provide robust social protection for all, and not just, if you will allow me, for shareholders. similarly, rather than a bottom-up approach under pressure from business, globalisation must aim to raise, level up social, environmental and democratic standards. this is how we will show that we have learned the lessons of brexit. it is only then that we will not only contain, but also reverse the dangerous wave of withdrawal into ourselves, because then our citizens will regain confidence, certain that their interests are protected. only then, with this newfound legitimacy, will we be able to proceed with further integration of the european union, which is the only way for us - i say the only way - to take back control of our destiny.
i am thinking here in the european parliament, in my seat, of the following: "if this were all a movie, what soundtrack would we hear, what music would be stuck to the footage?" i think that would be abba: "money, money, money. i'm going to the bank. it's so funny [sings] there are wonderful things happening here in the european union, wonderful things, but there are also many things that are going wrong, that are really going wrong. and the question for all of us is: "how do we meet these challenges?" unfortunately, i find that the union's answer is all too often: "money, money, money". that's what i said. we just throw a big bag of money at it and our problems will automatically be solved. mario draghi seems to be a fan of abba too. the president of the european central bank creates some money and he pumps it into the economy. is this good for growth? yes, in the short term. we'll buy something today that we would have bought tomorrow. since saving doesn't pay off, we just spend our money. but everyone feels that this growth is a sham, that it is not sustainable, that this monetary hocus pocus will have to stop at some point. and that's not the only side effect of this policy. there's more. people's purchasing power is declining. saving money is no longer profitable. pensions are in jeopardy. the inequality is growing, between the middle class and the people who are really rich, and certainly between people who are poor and the rich. we create bubbles, in the real estate market, in the stock market. you can see that's not a sustainable policy. and that is what surprises me most, how all the traditional political parties in this parliament are defending this policy. we talk a lot about tax fairness, about fairness. how in the world can you defend that and at the same time defend the policies of the european central bank that are increasing inequality? i can't get to that. i think that we, as parliamentarians, as politicians, would be better off choosing a different soundtrack, a different song, that we would be better off not listening to abba, but listening to the beatles, that we would be better off not listening to "money, money, money" but listening to "money can't buy me love". i won't sing that, that's for next time, but i really think that's the answer. we will not buy love for the european union with a bag of money. that's not how we're gonna do it. what are we supposed to do? reforming the system. the hard way. save your money. don't take shortcuts, but do what needs to be done. and there, too, the policy of the european central bank is bad, because it undermines that very need for reform. what bothers me most of all, however, is the fact that the european central bank is not sufficiently transparent about this - it has already been mentioned by the honourable member. there's a lot of work to be done. that is why we have set up our own internet platform, "leefgeld.eu". we have our next event on 26 june, where we will be debating precisely the mandate of the european central bank, in brussels. you are cordially invited to attend.
i would like to call on the eu-critical members of this parliament - and fortunately there are more and more of them - to focus our criticism of the euro not only on the european union itself but also on the eurozone. because much more than the european union - we have seen that the united kingdom has been able to withdraw from it on the basis of the treaty, it has freed itself - much more than the european union itself, the eurozone is a prison, and more specifically a prison without a door, which mr draghi has recently underlined again by saying that there is no provision for leaving the eurozone. if i see what needs to be done here and what is being done every day to keep the eurozone stable, with capital market unions, with european deposit guarantee schemes, with european unification of cover bond schemes, with the further development of that banking union, if i see here how infrastructure, pensions, wage policy, pensions, all our budgets, are being snooped on by the european union, if i see, after the macron affair, how here, until this morning, with great enthusiasm a new finance minister for the whole eurozone, a new european parliament, euro bonds, euro coins are being introduced, and if we finally see the arrogance with which the ecb is acquiring more and more power, then yes, we must come to the conclusion that we are evolving towards a single social economic standard that is good for southern europe because it can continue to be cheap and the debt is good for germany because it should be a much more expensive currency than the international standard because it should be good for germany because it is normally 30 to 50 percent of the debt within the eurozone that should be good for the international economy because it is normally 30 to 50 percent of the currency within the eurozone that should be good for germany there is a monster alliance that rules us. the standard is: "if marine le pen does not become president, if geert wilders does not become prime minister, then the european union has voted for more social, economic unity, for more european union. that is contrary to the very idea of europe. the european idea is based on differences and not on the unity that is being created here.
president, ladies and gentlemen, soon everyone who has paid for an online service will be able to access it while temporarily abroad, from netflix users to football fans, from people who like to read an e-book to people who like to listen to music, from students to holidaymakers and business people. finally, i should say. i think it is a great step forward for consumers who can thus enjoy the benefits of the european digital single market. i am also very pleased that the special position of the audiovisual sector will be protected by the introduction of sound control mechanisms. i think this is very important for the formation of the identity of linguistic and cultural communities, of smaller linguistic and cultural communities such as the flemish.
in writing. we will vote tomorrow on legislation that will allow eu citizens who subscribe to online films, music and tv series to access this content even when they are abroad. almost one in two europeans is affected. in particular, 49% of internet users in europe now listen to music, watch videos and play games online. but when you leave your national borders, you can't, or hardly, access the online content services you subscribe to and therefore can't get the movies, tv shows, music, games, or even sporting events. we have got these restrictions removed and the citizen can access all this online content wherever he is in europe, when travelling or when he is on international business trips. good news for the consumer.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, of course there have been some difficulties in the implementation of systematic checks at the external borders. this is all the more regrettable since this is a false external border, which is destined to disappear in the near future. but these few difficulties must not obscure the essential point: systematic controls at external borders are necessary and justified. in belgium, on the first day of the implementation of these checks, 15 people listed in the police databases were arrested. i'm aware, standing in line is always awkward. however, it is not reasonable to feel sorry for ourselves on the grounds that a wait of more than 15 minutes is unbearable on the road when we know that people who take the plane sometimes have to wait for more than two hours and that all their luggage is checked. however, the current system provides that the member states concerned may use targeted checks use them! , that the member states use european funds to equip themselves with efficient and necessary equipment and, finally, that the commission indicates what fluidity really is to help the states to make use of the possibility of targeted checks.
the european transport sector is becoming more and more self-sufficient. deadly emissions, countless road deaths and increasing congestion are bringing the industry a bad name and serious headaches. the unfair competition caused by the abuse of european and social regulations also makes life very difficult for many transport operators. the setting up of shady mail-bus companies and the hiring of underpaid and untrained drivers is a widespread practice. it's nothing short of modern day slavery! this is a matter of great concern to me and to many flemings with me. these abuses have brought unfair competition, social exploitation and road safety to the fore. that is a pity, especially when you consider the important role the sector plays in our european economy. it is therefore urgently time to upgrade the european transport sector. this can only be achieved by more effective european cooperation and better implementation and enforcement of existing european rules. i look forward to the european commission's proposals with great anticipation. the eu is there to create prosperity, not to facilitate a downward spiral.
mr president, commissioner, as you know, belgium is being shaken by a legal case against a major road haulage company. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. if the facts are true, we are talking about extremely serious things: criminal organizations, human trafficking, social fraud and money laundering. i don't want this europe anymore. i believe in europe and i really want a europe that puts social and economic issues on the same footing. i want a europe where the principle of equal work, equal pay for equal work is a fundamental right that is applied and monitored. your responsibility here is immense, because the belgian case demonstrates the inefficiency of the system. you must put an end to the social carnage which has enriched some companies by sacrificing jobs on the one hand and the fundamental rights of tens of thousands of european workers on the other. we therefore expect a lot from your proposals and i hope that the first negative reactions we hear are only fiction in view of the immense challenges in the road sector. we look forward to your proposals.
mr president, criminal organisation, trafficking in human beings, money laundering, counterfeiting and the use of counterfeits: this is what the belgian road transport company jost is suspected of. it is now suspected of major social fraud, a charge which reminds us that social dumping undermines our society, with workers who carry out their jobs in sometimes inhuman conditions as the main victims. social dumping must be fought this is what the president of the commission often says to us with conviction and reason. this action is essential if the european project is to have a future. we cannot be satisfied with vague statements. we must act at all levels, especially at european level. the commission will present its road transport package. without anticipating the content, i would like to stress a few priorities. the rules on cabotage and posting of workers must be strictly applied. there is an urgent need to regulate the commercial transport of small trucks. it is a question of working conditions, unfair competition and road safety. finally, it is essential to guarantee drivers' rest time. the transport package must meet these challenges. social dumping must be stopped and decent working conditions for workers must be ensured. i am convinced that you can count on the social partners and the work of this parliament to achieve this.
the mobility package launched by the commission on 31 may is the perfect opportunity to ensure decent working conditions for drivers and to tackle social dumping once and for all. that's exactly what i'm going to evaluate the next package on: does it tackle social dumping and improve the working conditions of drivers? does it end exploitation and the sometimes terrible conditions in which drivers have to do their jobs? does it ensure that we have well-equipped drivers on our roads who are paid a decent wage? is the law being followed? these are the crucial questions we must ask ourselves and on which the package must be judged. the fight against social dumping is not a struggle between east and west. let's not fall into that trap. it is a fight for better working conditions for drivers, for greater safety on our roads, against fraud (often perpetrated by companies from western european member states who, through mailbox companies, ignore the existing rules) and against exploitation of drivers. i am counting on the commissioner to come out with a package that tackles social dumping and fraud unequivocally and completely ignores the improvement of the working conditions of drivers.
mr president, korea is often cited as an example in free trade agreements. when we look at the trade balance today in favour of europe, but also at the economic growth in korea, we might say that, in the end, things are going very well. it's part of the deal. today, there are a number of criticisms about the issue of workers' rights in korea. this is the main task we have to tackle today. if this chapter on social and sustainable development were indeed binding, and if it also provided for sanctions, we could force korea to take a step towards respecting these workers' rights. therefore, i think it is important that these checks be put in place fairly quickly, that there be this formal consultation procedure with korea and, above all, before any further work, i think it is necessary to require that country to return to this logic of sustainable development and respect for workers' rights.
ethiopia is an important political ally of the eu and many other western countries. the country plays a key role within the african union and is a key partner in numerous un security missions. economically, the country is doing well. with an average growth rate of 10%, it is one of the fastest growing economies in africa. still, all that glitters is not gold. in addition to drought and poverty, the country is also struggling with a government that is flouting basic democratic principles. the ethiopian government has been too quick to accuse activists, journalists and bloggers of terrorism, to bloodily suppress protests by the oromo minority, and to abuse the declaration of a state of emergency to silence opposition leaders. the nva delegation therefore supports the resolution before us calling on the ethiopian government to release merera gudina and all other political prisoners and to restore the rule of law.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, last tuesday in this house, the president of the african union commission called on us to strengthen the africa-europe partnership and build bridges. i'm afraid that the blood diet of djouba has chosen isolation. the figures are tragic: tens of thousands of dead since the civil war began three years ago, more than 3 million displaced people, rape as a weapon of war, child soldiers and then this famine, which leaves a million people severely malnourished, including 600 000 children. and yet, because hope is a risk to be taken, as bernanos writes, the european union must weigh in with all its might in the search for a way out. in this context, i welcome the recent opening of humanitarian corridors by sudan and the mediator role that the democratic republic of congo wishes to play in establishing a dialogue on reconciliation. the united nations also has a leading role to play. the deployment of a regional force under un command to provide security, which would be in addition to the 13 000 peacekeepers already on the ground, now sounds obvious.
thank you, mr president. first of all, i would like to thank the commission for this very large and very important package which we can now finally start working on in parliament. one of the starting points is clearer and more transparent rules, their enforcement and the fight against fraud. the social aspect is extremely important to our group, and we welcome and support it very much. the question, of course, is whether it will work in practice. that's the challenge. does this package make it possible to really tackle social fraud on the ground? we shall certainly test that criterion. let me be clear: this is not a battle between eastern and western europe. it is about ensuring that our workers, whether they come from the west or the east, have the same rules, the same pay and the same social protection. that's unlikely to be crucial to us. secondly, on the day that donald trump is pulling out of the climate agreement, i want to say something about that. this package is sending an important signal. transport accounts for 20% of emissions and that percentage is rising. it is very important that we in europe take our responsibility and that we form alliances with the rest of the world, even if perhaps without the united states, to keep the climate agreement afloat.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank members for their very open comments and questions, and also to for all the support that they have expressed by picking the right topics that need to be discussed in order to move forward on issues related to road transport in the european union. addressing eu-wide problems with eu solutions is the right way to go, and the best way to avoid unilateral, uncoordinated national measures which fragment our internal market. with the proposal before you, we are trying to avoid that and to ensure adequate working conditions for drivers in a more enforceable way, while at the same time reducing administrative costs and burdens for operators. let me now directly address a few of your concerns and questions and hopefully bring more clarity to the proposal and our further discussions. letterbox companies are illegal and are used to obtain cost advantage by some hauliers. that is a fact. we define here clear criteria to avoid letterbox companies and to better enforce this, in particular through enhanced cooperation between national enforcement authorities. i have been asked on numerous occasions to do something about vehicles below 3.5 tons, especially the so-called white vans that are very often used to bypass european rules. my message here is very clear: yes vehicles and hauliers under 3.5 tonnes are included in this proposal, and the commission is making sure that they are subject to certain european rules, as described in the package. there were a couple of comments on a european road transport agency. at this point we are focusing on improving the existing enforcement tools and systems and on further enhancing cooperation between national enforcement bodies. i hope it is going to work. experience to date with the implementation of social legislation does not show that cross-border enforcement is much more cost effective and more consistent when carried out by the member state authorities within established framework structures. a road agency could indeed be helpful but for the member states and the commission, in assuring consistent and efficient cross-border enforcement, we would first like to focus on the solutions proposed. but i remain open to developing this subject further, in cooperation with you. tachographs were mentioned several times. we propose to accelerate the deployment of smart technologies and smart tachographs, which will further facilitate the enforcement of social rules and avoid fraud. for example, operators equipping their vehicles with these modern digital tachographs before the deadline should be rewarded with fewer controls on european roads. on driving and rest time, i would also like to repeat that the limits will remain the same. the flexibility to organise operations can in no way go against road safety and social protection. on the contrary, they will contribute to facilitating returns home. this is the approach proposed by the commission. these rules could be complemented by additional social measures relating to working time but, for those, from today onwards the commission is opening a social dialogue and will propose legislative proposals in the autumn in the second phase of the mobility package. on charging, member states are still free to decide whether they want to charge or not. they are free to decide what they want to charge, which roads they want to charge for and which not. but, if they decide to use charging systems, we have given them enough time to readjust their systems to a compatible, interoperable eu-based system. on cabotage, let me underline once again that our new cabotage rules do not imply further market opening or further market closure. market access and business opportunities will remain as they are today, but more flexibility will allow operators to optimise their operations, and simpler rules will certainly be of great help to controllers or enforcement officers in controlling illegal practices much better. on proposal and posting, first for cabotage operations, these are operations whereby goods are loaded and unloaded within the same country. there is a clear and strong link with that country and, therefore, the drivers should be paid according to the rules of the country from day one onwards. let us say that a slovenian driver drops a load off in milan and reloads in milan to unload in rome. for the time spent on the cabotage operation between milan and rome, italian rules will apply. secondly, for international operations – these are operations where the loading and unloading take place in different countries – we clarify that there is a sufficient link with the country concerned only to the extent that the driver spends at least three days a month in that country. to put it simply, international journeys lasting less than three days are excluded from the posting of workers directive. lastly, i would like to urge you all to focus not only on these particular issues. the road initiatives contain a very comprehensive list of measures that are well balanced and represent a substantial step forward in the management of road traffic in europe, making it much more modern, fair, sustainable and future-oriented. we really need to improve the road sector in order to stay competitive and to make sure that europe stays a social place.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, once again i appreciate the quality of the debate and i think it has been very clearly indicated what the points will be that we need to take care of, and on which we need to start daily contacts so we can work with you on speedy delivery. first and foremost, however, i really appreciate, and would like to thank the house for, the positive spirit and the welcome for the package, and also for underlining the importance of attention to the bigger picture, and how much we are trying to transform this very important sector. we have 50 million people working in transport-related industries, and we need to bear in mind how important it is for the quality of life in our cities and our rural areas, and how big a contribution transport can make to modernising and energising europe, and to a cleaner environment. i would agree with all the honourable members who have been calling for consistency and for speedy progress in working on this package in parliament and in the council, and i would like to reassure you that we are absolutely ready to respond to those calls. we had good experience, on the clean energy for all package, in working regularly with all the rapporteurs responsible for various parts of this package. i was invited to the conference of committee chairs where we had a very good cross-sectoral discussion. i know how important it is to cooperate well with all the committees because what we are doing here does not belong to one committee only: it has real cross-sectoral impact. to conclude, i would like to thank you for your strong encouragement and for the clear call to work together on providing leadership on climate change, because here i am absolutely convinced that we europeans are on the right side of history. the calls for a clean environment, for energy efficiency, for renewables, for modernisation and technological advancement of the economy, and for a high level of public awareness and citizens’ support, are very strong in europe. now we need to use this ‘first mover’ advantage to demonstrate our global leadership. i know that the world very much expects this from us, and i am absolutely sure that europe will deliver.
in writing. it is our duty to put an end to the social ills in the transport sector. the recent judicial raid on the belgian-luxembourg transport company jost shows that the fight against social dumping in the transport sector is finally getting off the ground. the measures proposed by the commission are a step in the right direction, but they are not without effective control measures. all trucks on international roads urgently need to be equipped with a smart digital tachograph. this will enable the inspectorate to quickly check whether drivers are complying with the new working rules and driving and rest times, the distances they are travelling and the speed at which they are travelling. we do not want to see the rules on driving and rest periods and the chaos in the sector eroded. road safety is our first priority.
mr president, this draft text is indeed important because it reminds us that anti-semitism is a serious and intolerable form of racism, which cannot be trivialised or accepted in any way and which we must absolutely fight against. it does, however, contain a reference to a contested definition which, by the examples it cites, is particularly ambiguous in its conflation of the obvious facts of reprehensible anti-semitism with criticism of an israeli government policy. it would have been better to have limited ourselves to a refined definition of these examples, which do not add anything and which, on the contrary, create ambiguity and weaken the excellent work done by our colleagues in this text.
in writing. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would ask you to support the text of this resolution, particularly as it provides for the inclusion of the areas of judicial cooperation in criminal matters and police cooperation in the multiannual framework. this would not only reflect the real needs on the ground in these troubled times, but would also allow the european agency for fundamental rights to undertake on its own initiative a thorough analysis of areas which are clearly relevant to human rights, particularly in the light of recent legislative developments in the european union. i would like to remind you of the ever-growing importance of the agency's mission and the key role it plays on a daily basis in defending fundamental rights in the eu.
in writing. while 4g and 3g were created to meet a need for speed on mobile internet, 5g is part of a more global project. in the future, we're all going to be ultra-connected: smartphones, tablets, pcs, connected objects, home automation, connected cars, vr headsets, augmented reality, artificial intelligence. in 20 years, we will be living in a world that we cannot even imagine today. the industrialists of this world, however, must have a vision of this future, and we must prepare for it. 5g is this network that will allow all of our connected devices to communicate with each other. a large flow is necessary, but not only. 5g will also bring improved range that can reach years.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my group welcomes the creation of this new common visa model for third country nationals and congratulates our rapporteur on the quality of her work. following high-profile cases of visa sticker forgery in several member states, the experts considered that the security of the model in its current form was not sufficient and therefore, after analysing the most common types of fraud, they proposed several improvements. we support them wholeheartedly along with you, madam rapporteur. i have two regrets, however. firstly, we believe, and continue to believe, that a transitional period of 15 months is long enough, if not too long. secondly, we regret that a legal dispute has dragged the case for months. we are therefore pleased that a solution has finally been found through joint efforts, in particular to keep ireland in the scheme. i would like to take this opportunity to address the commission on two issues. commissioner, and i am speaking to the whole commission through you, first of all i think that the inclusion of national visas in the visa information system would also be a good thing to combat counterfeiting in this area and to strengthen border crossing security. secondly, do you not think it is high time that we also introduced a uniform identity card model? it is nevertheless surprising that third-country nationals staying or travelling in the union have a uniform document while union citizens still do not. at present, the security of identity cards is left to the discretion of the member states. that's 27 forms of identification. and we ask our administrations, our police, our border guards to know 27 different ways to prove identity. this is a source of confusion for the benefit of the mafia and anyone who wants to use a fake id. when will the commission take a serious initiative in this area, madam commissioner?
her name was sarah, 65 years old, she was a day care manager and a jew. sarah died on april 4th, in belleville, beaten to death and stabbed by a young muslim radicalised. no national march, no one for sarah. she died in near-indifference of the media and, worse, in the chilling silence of the authorities. the killer is a neighbor. he knew his victim. he called her a dirty jew every day, terrorized her but justice, today, is flashing and questioning the anti-semitic nature of this crime. it is almost like a dream, like a hallucination, to hear some people, right now in this house, questioning, and for the same reasons, no doubt, the international definition of anti-semitism. it's a very important definition. we must call camus here again if we want to name things, act and pursue accordingly. to name a few, we owe it to emmanuel and miriam riva, to dominique sabrier and alexandre strens of the jewish museum in brussels, to jonathan sandler, to arié and gabriel, to the little miriam of the ozar-hatorah college in toulouse, to yoav hattab, yohan cohen, françois-michel saada and philippe braham of the hypercacher, and to all the others. we owe it to sarah halimi.
i am glad that we are voting on this important report tomorrow. research and innovation are essential to the prosperity of the european union. it is therefore not surprising that horizon 2020 is such a great success. the european union is demonstrating that action in the field of research and innovation has a clear added value. unfortunately, the program is also a victim of its own success. we see that the pass rate has been greatly reduced by over-enrolment. right now, we're at about 10 percent, which means some very brilliant researchers are cutting out and not taking their chances. this in turn threatens to throw away crucial opportunities. i therefore call for more budget for the next framework programme and for a stricter selection procedure in the two-stage procedure. we have had a long debate on the role of business in the framework programme. these companies are essential to the success of the programme: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. i therefore think that we should consider the rules for participation in the next framework programme with a view to involving even more companies. finally, i would like to say that i think the report puts the right emphasis on what is going well and what is going badly in the programme and has a right vision for the next framework programme. we must continue to focus on the problems that are the citizens' concern: good jobs, health and safety. i am therefore pleased to see that the minds are ripe to invest in defence research.
continuing to invest in research and development is the only way to remain relevant as a society. it is therefore very important that we clearly indicate that horizon 2020 is a huge added value for the european union and the member states. not only by freeing up additional resources, but above all by focusing on cross-border cooperation. these cross-pollination activities are considered very important by all participants and together with the criterion of excellence form the core of this programme. if we look at framework programme 9, these are the elements which must be preserved. i have always been opposed to this research programme being treated as a kind of cohesion fund. we must recognize that there is a problem with the absorption of funds by the eu-13, but those member states must invest in good training and infrastructure. this is of course a prerequisite for excellent research and for obtaining european funds. that is why i also think it is important that we look at further deepening synergies with the structural funds. this already includes an r & d aspect, but it can be further developed to close the gap between the eu-13 and the eu-15. the participation of industry is also very important. the fund should not be used exclusively to finance basic research or to solve scientific problems. we also need to give it practical applications and bring it to the market. this balance is very important. we need to balance this and divide the focus appropriately between the high and low trl scales. we also need to recognise that industry plays a crucial role in realising and implementing innovation. it is often also beneficial for smes, which thrive under the wings of these large companies. we are sending a clear and positive signal to the commission and the member states with our report on how we see framework programme 9 and where our research policy should go. i look forward to further interesting discussions on this subject.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by thanking parliament’s committee on regional development, the chair iskra mihaylova for organising this meeting, as well as honourable members kerstin westphal and daniel buda for their reports. as regards ms kerstin westphal’s report on building blocks for a post-2020 eu cohesion policy, the commission welcomes their valuable contribution to current reflections on the future of europe and to the next multiannual financial framework. this is a very timely input, in particular in view of our cohesion forum at the end of june. the commission shares most of the views of this report. in particular, we believe, as you believe, that cohesion policy is more necessary than ever. as all three rapporteurs have underlined here, the european union is facing tough challenges, such as globalisation, migration, which go beyond national borders, and this is where the european union’s cohesion policy can make a difference. cohesion policy, as ms westphal said, empowers thousands of stakeholders throughout the european union to tap into each region’s potential and make the best of innovation and smart specialisation, making sure that every eu region, no matter whether it is north, south, east or west, is better armed and resilient against globalisation, making sure that every european union citizen can have access to the same opportunities. so this policy works, but for the future it needs to strike a balance between change and stability, keeping what works, assessing carefully the costs and benefits of changes, providing the incentives for targeted structural reforms, to ease the link between investment, growth and jobs, enabling all funds to closely work together and exploiting to the largest possible extent the potential for simplification. but i hope you all agree with me that this is not sufficient. our policy delivers, but we also have to make sure that eu citizens are aware of that. there is a long tradition in communicating the cohesion policy but now we need to do even better. and that links me to the next report by mr buda but i shall not continue without once again thanking ms westphal, and also the shadow rapporteurs and all the team who worked on this report, for their efforts and their contributions. i shall now switch to my language because the rapporteur is romanian. comisia europeană apreciază foarte mult și raportul domnului buda cu privire la consolidarea angajamentului partenerilor și a vizibilității fondurilor europene structurale și de investiții. la fel ca și dumneavoastră, toate studiile noastre, așa cum ați subliniat, toate studiile noastre arată că foarte mulți oameni nu sunt încă informați în legătură cu ceea ce uniunea europeană face pentru pentru ei, în ciuda investițiilor pe termen lung, a tuturor școlilor, a spitalelor și a locurilor de muncă create. și, am mai spus o dată, provenim din aceeași regiune, eu am descoperit de-abia candidând pentru postul de parlamentar european faptul că în cluj-napoca liniile de tramvai sunt sponsorizate din fonduri europene. cred că trebuie să facem un efort colectiv. de asemenea, în sofia, săptămâna trecută, am extins linia de metrou și nu cred că foarte mulți cetățeni din sofia știu faptul că deja beneficiază și merg cu metroul din sofia cofinanțat în proporție de 95 % din fonduri europene. deci cred că trebuie să facem un efort mai mare. suntem într-o situație, aș putea spune, uneori dramatică. în ciuda acestor investiții, știm foarte bine că această politică de coeziune este mai atacată ca niciodată. nu este deja un secret pentru nimeni acest lucru. de aceea, mă bucur că avem acest raport, mă bucur că am căzut de acord în privința necesității creșterii comunicării în privința fondurilor europene și a ceea ce fac aceste fonduri europene pentru viața de zi cu zi a cetățenilor. așa cum ați arătat și dumneavoastră, suntem cu toții îngrijorați de lipsa de vizibilitate a politicii de coeziune. ați cerut ca acest aspect să fie rezolvat și astăzi, împreună cu doamna comisar thyssen, ne-am propus să ne unim forțele cu statele membre și să consolidăm profilul investițiilor noastre. de asemenea, acesta a fost și mesajul pe care l-am transmis și săptămâna trecută la consiliul ministerial informal din malta în prezența tuturor miniștrilor din cele 28 de state membre. comunicarea cu privire la politica de coeziune reprezintă o responsabilitate comună, așadar ar trebui să fie un efort comun. nu poate fi doar comisia europeană singura care acționează în această privință. știți foarte bine că, în orice țară merg, vizitez oricâte proiecte pot ca persoană, dar statele membre, parlamentul, comitetul regiunilor, autoritățile locale și regionale, societatea civilă ar trebui să își aducă, de asemenea, contribuția. și știu că foarte mulți dintre dumneavoastră faceți acest lucru. eu cred că trebuie să povestim, să împărtășim poveștile de succes ale milioanelor de întreprinderi mici și mijlocii care au beneficiat în ultimii zece ani de ajutor din partea fondurilor europene. ar trebui să povestim mai mult despre antreprenorii ale căror visuri se îndeplinesc în sfârșit, despre mamele care pot în sfârșit să își găsească de lucru datorită fondurilor europene, mulțumită noilor oportunități pe care le oferă piața muncii. de fapt, cred că ar trebui să menționez câteva inițiative promițătoare care au fost deja lansate, precum broșura germană cu privire la poveștile de succes sau planul de comunicare „let stars shine, engage in citizens, in the eu”, să lăsăm stelele să strălucească, implicându-i pe cetățeni în privința prezentului și viitorului uniunii europene, elaborată de nouă membri ai parlamentului conduși de domnul lambert van nistelrooij. contez însă pe sprijinul și pe ideile dumneavoastră pentru a ne asigura că această politică va însemna vești bune pentru 500 de milioane de europeni. am luat notă de propunerile dumneavoastră. vreau să știți că și până acum în programele operaționale existau bani pentru comunicare. cred că nu ar fi inutil să vedem cum acești bani, destinați comunicării, au fost cheltuiți pentru fiecare program operațional în parte, mai ales pentru programele mari. așa cum spuneați dumneavoastră, cred că trebuie mai multă claritate, mai multă transparență, să vedem ce înseamnă comunicare, ce înseamnă publicitate și sigur că aici trebuie să contăm foarte mult și pe sprijinul colegilor noștri din mass-media, care ar trebui să ne ajute cu publicarea acestor povești de succes. finally, concerning natural disasters, i would like to warmly thank this house and madam chair iskra mihaylova for your efforts to reach a swift agreement on natural disasters despite the difficulties. so now we will be able to help the member states cover from the structural funds 95% of all the damage caused by natural disasters. as we speak, there is an earthquake in greece. last year it was italy, and we expressed our sympathy for the people in italy. now, we have an earthquake in the aegean sea in greece, in chios and lesbos, aegean islands which i will visit as from tomorrow. especially in this time of crisis: they are all hit by the migrant crisis, and now we have this earthquake. my sympathies go to the people of greece especially, today. as i said, this dossier has an important political significance. we wanted from the very beginning to send a clear political signal that europe cares about its citizens and that it is willing and able to provide help quickly. as i said, yesterday it was italy, today it is greece, tomorrow it could be sweden or other countries. therefore, it was important to urgently conclude an agreement and i believe that, under these circumstances, the compromise reached is reasonable. thank you, and of course i am looking forward to our debate.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, commissioner, only 34% of europeans say they have heard of projects co-financed by the european union to improve their region, the region in which they live. there are many such projects. they are essential for regional and social cohesion and play an important role in reducing disparities. it is essential to give these projects more visibility, as they are the concrete image of the european union's action. it is and remains important to communicate the european added value of the projects that are financed. as rapporteur on this dossier for the committee on employment and social affairs of the european parliament, i would like to highlight the impact of these projects in terms of job creation and social integration. it is also important to reduce the administrative burden, without reducing controls, in order to allow easier access for small and medium-sized enterprises, especially those located in rural areas. finally, i stress the importance of ensuring the involvement of the social partners and the actors on the ground. they must be able to be involved in the various stages of programming, implementation and monitoring and evaluation of the use of these funds.
energy efficiency is the best and cheapest way to achieve our climate objectives. with these revisions, we are removing the advantages of labels, so that consumers can be clear about the performance of their device and are encouraged to choose the most economical product. at the same time, it will encourage manufacturers to develop and produce even more energy-efficient appliances. we are taking an approach that saves companies, from large producers to small traders, unnecessary burdens. we're dividing up the responsibility for distributing and putting the label on so that everyone knows what their job is. but my focus is on the consumer. better information leads to better choices. so we're creating a database where app developers and comparison websites can find all the data to give consumers a clear view. at the same time, it is important that we adequately protect these consumers. we have seen that this is absolutely necessary in the volkswagen software fraud scandal. for me, that means not only that you give a guarantee of at least two years, but also that you can guarantee that vehicles or appliances do not consume or pollute more than stated. if the labelling is incorrect, the consumer should be able to claim the correct replacements or refunds. i am glad that the commission is looking at how best to deal with this in our legislation. ladies and gentlemen, this dossier shows that europe is working for the people. it is a well-designed and targeted measure that makes each consumer think about his consumption and helps him make the right choices. the consumer will save energy, which is good for our environment, and therefore spend less money, which is good for his wallet.
the legislation presented here today is an important part of the energy efficiency discussions we have. the new energy labelling measures will enable us to achieve energy savings at european level equivalent to the energy consumption of the baltic states and italy combined, which is not to be underestimated. it is a very important consideration. this is one of the many measures we are taking which could help us achieve the european energy efficiency targets. but what do we see? the proposals for the winter package on energy efficiency make it very clear that the european measures taken by the member states in the field of energy efficiency cannot be counted towards achieving their objectives. i have some serious questions about that. because then what are we doing here? why are we making the european rules if they can't count?
in writing. there was no harmonisation of energy efficiency labelling for european household appliances. this dusty find will soon be filed away in the broom closet. we therefore propose a single labelling standardised from a to g to provide clearer information to consumers and to reduce their energy consumption. the aim of this measure is also to reduce the consumption of european citizens by 200 billion kw/h, which is a substantial saving for their portfolios. in addition, all new products placed on the union market will have to be registered in an online database, which will provide greater transparency and facilitate market surveillance by national authorities. 85% of european consumers take the energy index into account when making purchases. however, up to 25% of products placed on the market do not comply with energy labelling requirements. it was therefore urgent to rectify the situation and improve the consumer's situation.
fake news is on the wrong side of history. today we can show that the european union is keeping its word and implementing the paris agreement. we owe it to our children and our grandchildren to take up that responsibility now. the fight against climate change is a matter of effort, but also of opportunity, and everyone must play their part. after all, climate is not the responsibility of government alone. flanders is on the right track. the 2020 target is within reach. achieving the 2030 targets will require a lot of additional efforts. but flanders is determined to rise to the challenge. the flemish government, led by prime minister geert bourgeois, is firmly in the driver's seat. however, finding a delicate balance between ambition and feasibility remains a challenge and bringing forward the start date remains a concern for us in this respect.
for the greens/efa group madam president, there is no monetary union mr starbatty, germany is one of them there is no monetary union possible without strong financial solidarity mechanisms, both private and public. to put it simply, without a full banking union, without a social, fiscal and democratic union, the euro is doomed to disappear. this is clear from the reflection paper tabled by the commission two weeks ago, but only in a watermark. it is in addition to those proposed in 2012 by barroso on the one hand and by van rompuy on the other, and to the famous report of the five presidents tabled in 2015. so we have been sitting on our hands for five years, because we lack the vision and the political will to act. yes, we need to complete the banking union by adding to common supervision and common crisis management a common deposit guarantee with a common public budgetary safety net. yes, we need a euro area budget to invest in particular in the energy transition, because, deployed in a counter-cyclical way, it will help cushion macroeconomic shocks, but it will also improve the strength of the european economy. yes, we must deepen the solidarity between our social protection systems, for example with a common unemployment reinsurance system. finally, if we are to tackle excessive deficits, whether they are trade deficits or budget deficits, we must tackle excessive surpluses with the same vigour, because they are just as deleterious as the former. we must also put a stop to the excessive growth of both public and private debts, because their increase is a sign of danger. none of this can be done without solid democratic control. the european parliament and the national parliaments must be closely involved in this process. my dear colleagues, sharing a currency is sharing a common good. this requires both strong solidarity and an equally strong sense of shared responsibility. all this is possible only with common rules, for example in the financial sector. in this respect, let me say that what we have seen over the past year is more of a discreet dismantling of the little progress we have made than the simplification and tightening of the rules we need. we have budgetary rules, but experience shows that they are inapplicable simply because they are procyclical, that is to say, they make the situation worse when it is already serious and, combined with the neoliberal doxa that continues to dominate this house, the commission and the council, they make it the weakest shoulders that end up bearing the heaviest part of the burden. rather than getting rid of the rules, we must have the courage to transform them, both financially and budgetarily, so that they regain their meaning, that is, the defence of the general interest. i would like to conclude, madam president, by saying that europe is a symbol. some would like to make it a symbol of financial oppression. i believe that europe can become, or re-become, the symbol of our common belonging.
i live in the astrid avenue in koksijde, east dunkirk, and we have a good rule in our street. the rule is, everybody sweeps in front of their own door. that way the whole street is clean. sometimes i also sweep my neighbor's door, for example, when he is sick. solidarity with the people. if i lived on europe street instead of astrid avenue, it would be different. then the northern part of the street would be clean, swept, but the southern part wouldn't. because that's what we see in europe today: several southern european countries refuse to do their part of the job and that is of course not how it works in this eurozone. the eurozone can only function if all member states take their responsibilities. but today we're not here to talk about taking responsibility. no, we are talking again about eurobonds, about a european monetary fund, about a european finance minister, about the establishment of a european transfer union. a transfer union! with all due respect, that's not the answer. that is not solidarity, that is profiteering and that is not the structural future of our euro zone. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" question. what is it? mr. loones, germany's been around for 150 years or so. for 150 years, germany has been a monetary union. there have been transfers within germany for 150 years. you call germany a great profiteering state?
"blue card" is the answer. thank you for asking. the question is how we will make our european economies strong again. and what do i find? the transfer policy in germany is not working either. it does not work in belgium either, for example, where we have billions of transfers to wallonia every year and wallonia has not been able to get on top of it either. it doesn't work in italy either. a transfer policy does not bring a stronger economy, does not bring a stronger eurozone. so that's not the way forward. the only way forward is the way of responsibility. do what you have to do. structural reform, so we can move forward together.
ladies and gentlemen, creating a currency area from member states which are so fundamentally different socially and economically from each other would be asking for instability. i believe that the instability was inherent in the euro concept. and now, as the failure becomes more and more evident, we find that it is precisely this instability that you are using to push your further european integration, your political integration. it is the instability of the currency that is being used to smooth over differences and in that reflection paper you are now presenting, you are quite brazenly coming forward with a political project. a political project not only of banking union and capital markets union and the resolution fund, but also of a fundamental continuation of convergence standards and of a european minister of finance and a european parliament, and of course of european debt securities. you want to go on to further level the playing field, and that is precisely what is un-european about this whole project. the differences which have made europe great, the differences in competition which have brought europe prosperity and well-being, are being further eroded and we believe that this is a serious, fundamental mistake. it is the mistake the european union always makes: if there is a problem, there must be more european union, the flight forward. the introduction of a political straw man to achieve political unity is, in our view, un-european. that is already the case with the monetary policy of your ecb. it should try to prevent instability by allowing southern european countries to park their debt on the ecb's balance sheet, which inevitably leads to transfers. this is also the case for the monetary policy now being pursued by draghi, which ultimately wastes our reserve capacity. the potential stimulus packages that we will need later, when we have to prevent a recession in the event of a downturn or the next crisis, will no longer be possible. your labour mobility, your immigration, your globalisation, these are social flattening outs whose price is the pressure on low wages and poverty. debt levels are still the same as before the crisis. member states no longer have the brake pedals, the engine, or even the steering wheel. you're taking all that away from them. we should go back to the drawing board and go back to the origins of what the european union was: the european union is a union of different countries which, because of their differences, have created greater prosperity and well-being for their people. you're doing the opposite.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the glyphosate saga is continuing. the ball is in our court again today, in the european parliament, exactly 14 months after the vote on our resolution which already called for its prohibition in specific uses. from study to study, from agency to agency, from expert to counter-expert, opinions follow one another and do not resemble each other and clarity is not achieved, i am using an understatement. last march, the "monsanto papers" set fire to public opinion in the united states. the declassified documents have spoken. monsanto was seriously concerned about the mutagenic nature of glyphosate as early as 1999. a concealment of evidence if there is one, but the investigation will have to say so. the alde group, which i represent, continues to trust and wants to trust the work of the european food safety authority (efsa) and the european chemicals agency (echa), which is based in helsinki. we also know - and the commissioner has reminded us - that on this issue, as on gmos, for example, the member states hide their divisions and do not take their responsibilities. however, there is no time to lose: the commission's roadmap should be based on a few principles. the commission must ensure that its final decision is based on independent scientific studies and not on biased work and documents provided by monsanto or other firms. in this transitional phase, before december, it is imperative for the commission to change its model and finally move to a logic of gradual prohibition of the substance, rather than re-approval and derogation. the european agencies must also be given the means to achieve their ambitions. i find it quite shocking - i say this in passing - that efsa's budget is almost four times smaller than that of the european medicines agency, while food is the third largest item of expenditure for european households. that is what you should do, commissioner, but what you most likely will not do, given what you have just answered us this afternoon. basically, all the elements are known, i quote you, there is nothing to declare, and worse, the "monsanto papers" will not change anything, circulate. it is a startling end to the lack of response, which i find regrettable, and i am using a euphemism again, because the main thing - and sometimes the obvious must be hammered - is that your principle of public action, mr commissioner, must be the precautionary principle.
last year, i voted against renewing the glyphosate license. there was no scientific consensus on the question of whether glyphosate is carcinogenic. i was advocating greater transparency, clarity, independent inquiry, and that position remains fully in place today. news that monsanto has allegedly directed and manipulated research makes the call for transparency all the more compelling. the commission must now act. i strongly believe in evidence-based policy based on objective science. the question to the commission is therefore how it intends to continue to guarantee such a policy and how it is responding to the call for transparency. at the same time, we want to be open-minded about any structural changes to the system for the approval of herbicides and pesticides and we call for a thorough analysis of the professional use of glyphosate. i hope that the commission, like us, will put the protection of human health and the environment first and come up with clear answers.
mr president, commissioner, like you, we must have confidence in science. politics must rely on science to decide, but several decades ago, scientists said that asbestos was completely harmless, and today, asbestos still kills hundreds of thousands of people a year on the planet. scientists said aspartame was harmless and they still say that today, but aspartame is probably the next food bomb that's going to go off. scientists have said that glyphosate is harmless, but the monsanto papers, since last march, have shown us that some scientists have altered their findings and rigged their investigation to allow glyphosate to be put on the market. therefore, it is permissible to doubt the scientific opinions that are given. it is therefore necessary to make all the transparency about the independence and reliability of the investigations on which our agencies rely to give their opinions. commissioner, that is why we need a committee of inquiry, to establish the whole truth and reliability in order to have confidence in our system. it is in the interest of the 500 million european citizens and their health, and even of the 7 billion citizens who inhabit the planet.
mr president, the humanitarian and security situation in the democratic republic of the congo is deteriorating sharply. violence and repression are rampant in the once peaceful kasai. since august 2016, summary executions, child murders, the recruitment of child soldiers, sexual violence have been hitting civilian populations. the violence involving militias, soldiers and police has left more than 400 dead. more than 40 mass graves have been discovered, 400 000 children are at risk of starvation, and more than 1.5 million congolese have fled the region. this crisis in kasai is playing out against the backdrop of what should be a political transition provided for by the agreement of 31 december 2016 and which is barely coming to fruition. even though voter registration appears to be accelerating, the adoption of electoral laws and the establishment of the national monitoring council for the agreement are challenges that the congolese authorities must address by holding free, transparent and democratic elections. in a serious context, parliament called on the congolese authorities and the international community to make every effort to respect all the commitments made in the new year's eve agreement, including the setting of a clear and precise timetable for the holding of elections, without amending the constitution. we also call for an international inquiry into the violence in kasai so that those responsible can be held to account. finally, the european parliament also supports the targeted sanctions put in place by the union against those responsible for serious human rights violations. i would also remind you that it is the government's responsibility to ensure the safety of its people and that it has a responsibility for this. therefore, we call on the kabila government to protect its people.
in march, the bodies of zaïda catalan and michael sharp were found in kasai province. the two un experts were killed by militiamen or congolese soldiers. they were just sent out to find clues to the newly-charged violence. in the meantime, 20 mass graves have been discovered and sources speak of 1,500 dead. it could have been very different for the civilians in kasai. the potential to become a prosperous piece of africa is enormous. kasai is rich in minerals and fertile agricultural land. the kasai deaths are a symptom of the real problem. congo is a rudderless ship with a groveling elite, a divided army and an invisible president who clings to his position. the mass escape from bukavu prison in south kivu last sunday is further proof of this. the political system in the congo has failed. it's bankrupt, just like the international community. he's watching. it reacts occasionally but is otherwise completely divided and therefore powerless. the people of kasai have no use for international condemnation without consequences.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, for once i have to contradict manfred weber. he said that there is at least one positive outcome of the british election: the disappearance of ukip and of those who want not only britain out of europe, but who want to destroy the european union from inside. i think that it is true that there will be a lot of items on the agenda in the european council next week, but the main point on the agenda is whether we can now start the negotiations on brexit. it is three years since the start of the debate, a year since the outcome of the british referendum and three months since the triggering of the notification, and we are not still not in a position to start negotiations, because there is – for the moment anyway – no clear position from the new government in the united kingdom – if there is already a new government, because every day i read that there is a deal, but then six hours later there is no deal and they are still discussing it. but there are five pressing questions that need to be answered on a short—term basis. mr kamall, maybe you can help the government to respond to them. first: is the british position still that of the letter of 29 march, or will the new government take into account the outcome of the election, which was a little different from the hard talk of the letter of the 29th? the second question is: will it be the opinion of the tories or the position of the whole nation? party interest or national interest? because this is not about the tories leaving the european union but about the uk leaving the european union. the third question: what about the good friday agreement? what is the proposal so that the good friday agreement can be kept in place and that no hard border will be created between the republic on the one hand and northern ireland on the other hand? the fourth question: will the british government – as we do on the european side – one hundred per cent guarantee the current rights of eu citizens living in britain, like we are ready to guarantee the current rights of british citizens living on the continent? finally, the fifth question: is it still the opinion of the uk government to leave the single market and the customs union? is the populist illusion of limiting free movement in europe really more important than the prosperity and fortune of british workers, british industry, british companies and the british economy? because let us face reality. this brexit has already had a negative impact on everybody in europe, and especially on britain. zero growth in the first quarter in britain; for the moment it is three times less than in the last quarter of last year. and because of what? because of the uncertainty that has been created. so i think the time is now right for us to receive from the british side clear answers to these five questions so that these negotiations can start. i know that yesterday emmanuel macron, the new french president, spoke about an open door. he said that, if britain is changing its mind, it will find an open door. i do not disagree with him but, like in alice in wonderland, all doors are now the same. it will be a brand new door with a new europe: a europe without rebates, without complexity, with real power and with unity. that is the door towards europe. for me, jean-claude, the most important thing now is the reform of our union, and for this reform not to be bogged down in these brexit talks. brexit talks for the moment look more like the echternach procession – you are from luxembourg and maybe you can explain to everybody what the procession of echternach is – namely two steps forward and one step back. that is typical echternach. i am very grateful to the commission for the different reflection papers that they have put on the table, but the commission is more than a think tank. i think the moment is now there, when we start these brexit talks, to have also legislative proposals on the reform of the european union, on defence – as you have done – and on economic and monetary union. but not only reflection papers: we also need legislative proposals. do not leave the space open for the council. it is not for the council to fill in the space; it is the commission that will have to do it with legislative proposals. we have now a new president in france who is pro-european, and we will have german elections. that is the moment to go forward. we always say do not waste a good crisis. well, do not waste a good election cycle either.
the european council will soon be dealing again with the problem of the irregular migration of economic migrants from libya to italy. in addition to the 200 million euros we are investing in humane reception in libya and its environs, it is time to work on an eu return policy, based on our experience with the eu-turkey deal. this deal resulted in fast-tracked asylum procedures in greece, so that all refugees who were already safe in turkey could be sent back to that country. this is how we got the flow of refugees under control. i wonder what we are waiting for to set up the same kind of cooperation with all the countries in north africa. why should we stick to the one eu-turkey deal? after all, it's legal to send migrants back to a safe haven. the commission itself considers that this is a place where human life is not threatened, where basic needs are met and where transport can also be arranged. other north african countries besides turkey are certainly eligible. i therefore call on all european leaders to examine the legal possibilities for reaching an eu-libya deal, for example. it is the only way to avoid deadly maritime tragedies.
madam president, president trump made his announcement to leave the paris agreement, ironically, in the rose garden, and the question is: how should we react? we can be very angry, we can be frustrated – but let us not be afraid, and let us stand united. we have heard many of our political leaders in europe say that we will keep up the engagements in the paris agreement. it is nice to give good speeches, but the proof of the pudding is in the eating, and the first thing we need to do in europe is implement the paris agreement in full. when we have a vote on the effort sharing, when we discuss renewable energy, when we discuss energy efficiency, let us move up and make it more ambitious. that is our goal. second, we always say that europe is divided – with two speeds, or three speeds. well, we can also say that in the united states we have more than one speed: we have the trump administration, but we also have states, cities, mayors, companies that have said they will implement the paris agreement and that they will keep on track with it. let us not turn our back on the united states and their people, but work together with these cities and states. i think that is also what the european commission should do: to make sure that at international level we keep up with china, india, but also with the citizens of the united states. rest assured, trump is not the rightful representative of the people in the united states, because they do stand with the paris agreement and with combating climate change.
whatever the position of the united states, we have embarked on the path to a low-carbon, energy-efficient economy and there is no going back. this is of course the right choice, not least because it reduces our dependence on unreliable oil and gas suppliers. so ambition, especially in the reform of the division of labour which we shall be voting on shortly. but also: do not be naive. look at the reform of the ets, where we want measures to stop the carbon leakage. and at the same time, we're going to continue to work on that reform of the ets, making that system more robust and, above all, linking it to systems like california. because we have strong allies in the united states. let us also continue to work on a system, on a level playing field for industrial producers who want to produce for europe. we can also use the ets successfully for this.
the old continent, that is the name of the european union, while we have everything to be at the top of the international ladder. but for that, we're going to have to reform more, we're going to have to save more, so that we can use that money that we save to make sensible, smart investments. i sincerely believe that the european efsi fund can help in this. the ambition is very high: in three years, €315 billion in additional investment in innovation, in infrastructure, in smes. today we are evaluating the first phase of that efsi fund. and what's the conclusion? we're getting our numbers. that's a good thing. on the other hand, we find that the quality of investment must be improved, raised. because the efsi should not do what any ordinary bank or investment fund can do. we can expect more from the efsi, so that we can invest in more innovation, in quality projects, in more risky projects. that should be our priority: we must invest in excellence, put europe back on the map, not choose to level down, but choose to make real progress.
madam president, commissioner, as you said, the efsi is a project that has been quite successful, particularly in terms of the number of projects that europe has been able to support. but this is a recovery plan that is far from meeting all our expectations. the quality of the projects selected has significant gaps and shortcomings. i believe that we must move towards a better geographical distribution of projects, their sectoral diversification, a more transparent selection procedure and own funding, without drawing on the budgets of other initiatives. i would like to stress, commissioner, the importance of productive public investment directed towards the real economy. i think it is really necessary for the authorities, especially local authorities, to be able to invest in productive projects, such as insulation of public buildings, because the consequences are positive for the economy, generating local jobs which, in turn, are not relocatable and in line with environmental criteria. commissioner, i would like to emphasize that the golden rule is not a social project, it is a working method. as the treaties provide, i think it is high time to re-work the flexibility of accounting for our public investments if we are to re-create growth and jobs.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for the numerous comments, questions and remarks. efsi might not be perfect. it certainly is not a magical weapon that can, on its own, close the investment gap we suffer from: create growth and jobs and put our economy on a sustainable and inclusive track. but our debate and the reports prove that it is a valuable instrument in pursuit of this aim. i hear all the expectations in terms of job creation, ambition as regards macroeconomic impact, vigilance in the face of potential crowding out of other investors and fears of cannibalisations of other eu instruments. i understand them all and i share this impatience. but let us discuss on the basis of actual results, and focus on positive messages. efsi delivers, and we are in the midst of negotiations to extend it and also to make it better. je voudrais, à cet égard, répondre à quelques questions ou remarques. on m’a demandé si l’efsi était censé remplacer les fonds de cohésion. la réponse est non. nous attachons une importance majeure à la politique de cohésion. l’efsi et la politique de cohésion peuvent coexister et peuvent se renforcer mutuellement. tous deux partagent un objectif, qui est d’augmenter le niveau d’investissement au profit de la croissance et de l’emploi. il s’agit de développer les synergies entre l’efsi et les fonds de cohésion, en aucun cas de les opposer ou de les exclure. plusieurs remarques ont été faites sur tel ou tel pays et sur la façon dont ils sont desservis par les fonds de cohésion. à cet égard, bien sûr, nous avons des statistiques. je mentionnerai simplement deux pays. d’abord, chypre. c’est vrai que, pendant longtemps, il n’y avait aucun projet, mais un accord a été signé en décembre 2016 sur le volet pme entre le fonds européen d’investissement et la banque rcb. en ce qui concerne la grèce, il y a eu plusieurs interventions. pendant longtemps, c’est vrai qu’il n’y a pas eu de projet en grèce. une équipe du hub a été envoyée pour prêter assistance à la structuration de projets et, aujourd’hui, la grèce, écoutez bien, est le huitième pays à bénéficier de fonds efsi. par conséquent, il y a eu plus qu’un rattrapage en la matière. je saisis cette occasion pour dire à quel point je souhaite que, demain, lors de l’eurogroupe qui se tiendra à luxembourg, on parvienne à trouver un accord pour la grèce qui permette de débourser les fonds prévus dans le cadre du troisième programme et de dessiner les paramètres de mesure des dettes à moyen terme, tout cela sur fond d’une politique qui doit privilégier la croissance et l’emploi dans ce pays. parce qu’après la crise, après les efforts, il est temps que le peuple grec voie le résultat de tout ce à quoi il a consenti. mon collègue de la commission, valdis dombrovskis, faisait hier cette présentation à mes côtés, lors du collège, et la commission sait qu’elle a déjà fait beaucoup pour la croissance et l’emploi en grèce. à travers l’efsi aussi, nous voulons faire plus. il faut faire plus. c’est fondamental. mon collègue katainen et moi-même sommes prêts à revenir dans ce parlement d’ici un mois peut-être, avant la coupure de l’été, pour discuter du résultat des trilogues. le président juncker a présenté l’efsi 2 dans son discours sur l’état de l’union, en septembre 2016. soyez sûrs qu’en un an, nous avons déjà fourni des résultats dans cette direction au bénéfice de nos citoyens européens. par conséquent, mon message est simple: l’efsi est un instrument perfectible, critiquable, comme tout instrument, mais qui est aussi remarquable. alors perfectionnons-le ensemble. c’est ce que nous pouvons faire et c’est toute l’utilité de nos échanges d’aujourd’hui.
in writing. i would ask you to vote in favour of this report, which calls for an initiative by the commission to monitor foreign investment in strategic european sectors at eu level, especially when the countries from which these investments come restrict or prevent european investors from accessing their markets. i believe it is essential that the european union identifies the key sectors and industries which it must protect and, where appropriate, prevent targeted acquisitions by foreign investors. at the moment, as i have often said, there is a clear problem of reciprocity (especially with china) and major risks for europe, because strategic sectors such as robotics, defence, high technology and the airport sector are being targeted. the risk is that technology transfers to a third country will ultimately threaten european interests. more than ever, we need a strategic industrial policy: we need to protect our key industries.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this is first and foremost a very constructive exchange on this absolutely crucial issue. the commission will have to provide precise answers to each other's questions, particularly in the framework of the international trade commission (inta). the european union needs policies that enable us to measure the positive and the less positive aspects of globalisation and thus respond to the concerns of our citizens. the commission analyses the challenges associated with the acquisition by foreign firms of european companies, which are themselves active in strategic sectors linked to industrial policy considerations. we must also be particularly vigilant when it comes from countries that apply restrictions to direct investment - that is the principle of reciprocity - and when there are no fair conditions of competition for our own investors. i would like to assure you that all the concerns related to such investments will be scrupulously and carefully analysed and that we will discuss with you the definition of all possible instruments to remedy these situations. the commission is, of course, ready to work closely with parliament and the other institutions to develop and implement policies that will address all the risks that can affect sustainability and prosperity in the union. we must be an open space, of course, but without naivety and with a concern for reciprocity.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, it has been a pleasure to participate in this plenary debate regarding the formulation of an eu approach on foreign investments in strategic sectors—a topic which will be of growing relevance in the coming months. it is vital to regularly reassess whether we have all the tools to respond to the changing landscape of globalisation. in this context, the epp proposal and a letter by the three member states are an important contribution to the discussion. the council is of course prepared to act once a proposal has been tabled by the commission.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like to thank members for the opportunity to speak on the topic of child poverty. it is a very wide-ranging issue that must remain on our european agenda. the challenges are common to all member states. however, their extent, dimension and context differ from one member state to another. this is why the actions to be taken at national and local level vary accordingly. the most recent eurostat data from 2015 speaks for itself. children are most disproportionately affected by poverty. they are the age group at the highest risk of poverty or social exclusion. an estimated 27% of children in the eu 28 are concerned, as compared to about 25% of adults and around 17% of the elderly. the causes of child poverty are diverse and often multiple. the five main factors are: type of household, monetary poverty, the level of education, a migrant background, and living conditions. but, despite member states’ commitment to the europe 2020 poverty reduction target and despite steps being taken to fulfil this target, two further drivers have triggered a general increase in poverty and social exclusion. i am referring to the economic crisis and the phenomenon of inherited poverty. therefore the fight against child poverty needs to be tackled in its largest possible scope. this means combating exclusion and fighting inequalities in the spirit of the eu charter of fundamental rights. what measures have been, and should be, taken? let me first state what is self—evident: no child deserves to be left behind. in our actions we should be led by the overarching concept of investing in children. our responses need to be multidimensional. in december 2015, this house adopted the written declaration on investing in children and, in february 2016, you followed up on this initiative with a stocktaking exercise. in this context, the council adopted a set of conclusions on an integrated approach for combating poverty and social exclusion including child poverty. furthermore, the new commission initiative on the european pillar of social rights encourages us to further reflect on the provision which sets out a right for children to be protected from poverty. these issues are very much on the agenda in the council and will be discussed tomorrow in the council’s youth working party. the council is also looking forward to the launch and implementation of a preparatory action on a child guarantee as announced in the social pillar framework. in this context, i would like to thank parliament for its continuous commitment to maintaining the issue of child poverty on the agenda.
member of the commission. – madam president, i share your concerns about child poverty, even though since 2010 the proportion of children at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the eu has decreased slightly from 27.5% in 2010 to 26.9% in 2015. however these figures remain worrying, i would say, unacceptable. that means that more than a quarter of all children in the eu, around 25 million, are growing up in a household which either earns less than 60% of the median income, suffers from material deprivation or is a quasi-jobless household. child poverty is a multi-faceted issue that demands an integrated and, to the extent possible, preventive approach looking at both the employment situation of the household and the rights of the child. as you know, fighting child poverty is primarily the responsibility of the member states. however, the commission and my colleague marianne thyssen support their efforts through all the instruments that are at our disposal. first, policy guidance, including through the european semester’s country-specific recommendations, and second, our eu financial instruments; the european social fund (esf), the european regional development fund (erdf), and the fund for european aid to the most deprived (fead). of the latter, the funding possibilities for children in the existing eu financial instruments have been significantly strengthened. for the current programming period, approximately eur 21.2 billion of the total esf allocation was earmarked for social inclusion measures, of which eur 3.9 billion has been set aside for access to services, including childcare and eur 8 billion was earmarked for measures to prevent early school leaving. moreover, around eur 11 billion of erdf funding is planned for measures promoting social inclusion and combating poverty, while around eur 6 billion are planned for investment in educational infrastructure. the eu funds are also supporting healthy nutrition for children with the eu school fruit scheme: eur 150 million to ensure the distribution of fruits and vegetables in schools in 2015 and 2016. all these financial interventions are extremely important for preventing and breaking inter-generational transmission of poverty and social inclusion, which is of course the major factor. moreover, the newly adopted european pillar of social rights puts children at the forefront of social europe. it acknowledges the need to improve children’s life chances and to enhance children’s rights in the european union. principle 11 of the pillar recalls that children have the right to protection from poverty and that children from disadvantaged backgrounds have the right to specific measures to enhance equal opportunities. it also recognises that children have the right to affordable early childhood education and care of good quality. the commission trusts that parliament will join together with the council in the proclamation of the pillar by the end of this year. this builds upon many of the policy instruments’ elements contained in the 2013 ‘recommendation on investing in children: breaking the cycle of disadvantage’, in particular those on parents’ access to adequate resources, activation and quality services on 26 april the commission published a staff working document to take stock of the progress achieved by member states in implementing this recommendation. the experiences collected throughout the last four years show the areas in which good progress has been made and those where there is still room for improvement. therefore, it should provide a useful guidance for further action at local, national and eu level in the field. moreover, underpinning the relevant principles of the pillar, the commission has adopted an initiative on work-life balance, which should contribute to a larger and fairer participation of women in the labour market, which is also a key factor since, ultimately, the employment status of parents is one of the key determinants of child poverty. this initiative will continue to reduce the number of children who live in households at risk of poverty. one last word about the preparatory action for a child guarantee proposed by this parliament. we will launch a study that should initially analyse the possibilities of such an action to improve the situation of particularly vulnerable children in the european union, i.e. children in institutions, children left behind by parents working in another eu country, disabled children and children of migrants and refugees. let me once again assure you in conclusion that this commission is committed to addressing child poverty across the eu by restoring economic growth and upward social convergence, fostering job creation and ensuring social fairness. for the 40% of children in some of our member states that live in households at risk of poverty, we need to come with effective solutions to foster employment of their parents and to ensure their full participation in society. child poverty and social exclusion not only have a negative imprint on a child’s future but are also a huge waste of potential that our ageing societies cannot afford. we must on the contrary build on our children.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, all reports show that since 2008 the level of child poverty has been increasing in a large number of member states. in my country, belgium, which is by far the most affected, 25% of young people are actually on the verge of poverty. this is unacceptable. it is not possible, moreover, to isolate child poverty situations from the more general level of poverty. the fight against poverty must be and must remain a priority for the european union. this poverty of children is all the more unacceptable because it will affect them in the long term. the consequences are dramatic in terms of health, education and integration, and will mark the child and set him on a course that will handicap him throughout his adult life. combating child poverty, intervening quickly to break this negative spiral, means avoiding having to devote significant resources to integration policies later on, but above all it means enabling every human being to live with dignity, the dignity that must be that of our entire society.
ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we shall be voting on two reports on the digital economy, which offers many opportunities for consumers and businesses alike. we have a duty to solve problems where they arise. but sometimes i think that the pendulum here in this hemisphere is a little bit swinging the other way. sometimes we create new problems for new initiatives and innovation. the reason why many large platforms come from outside the european union is not because of a lack of rules, but because there are too many of them. that is why i think that similar online and offline services, as has already been mentioned, should simply be subject to the same rules. as regards liability and consumer rights, i am very pleased to see that the commission is organising a series of workshops with the member states and with the sector, and i think it would be good to involve the european parliament in this too. perhaps then the honourable members would see that some of the rules which are now in place are superfluous.
on behalf of the s&d group. commissioner, first of all, thank you for your answer, although i am still a little on my ... the landscape of europe's ports is extremely diverse. there are large ports, small ports, large ports in small member states, small ports in large member states. you have publicly owned ports, so government owned, private ports, and everything in between, and also a lot of different tax systems. that is the diversity of our port landscape and i fully understand the commission's absolute duty to ensure that there is no unjustified state aid, that there is a level playing field, but then you have to really apply that. today, as my colleague said, an infringement procedure against france, belgium and the netherlands, which is not based on a level playing field and a good discussion of what is really at stake, and that is not okay. so i think it is important that the questionnaire that the european commission has started leads to a very broad inquiry, and that we have a real discussion about how we want to run our ports. i think it is incredibly important that we do not focus on a few member states, but that we treat all ports on the same level and that we make sure that there are other criteria in the discussion, in particular environmental, social criteria, make sure that we have a very good logistics system. i think the commission should look at the infringement procedure against those three member states in a different way and that it should now ensure a real level playing field in the debate.
on behalf of the group of the european right thank you, mr moscovici, i listened to you very carefully, but i have to agree with many of the previous speakers. the commission, led by mrs vestager, has always been a fervent defender of a free market with fair competition. as a true 'iron lady of denmark', mrs verstager fought against multinationals, cartels and dishonest companies. but today, in this case, i find that her zeal has the opposite effect. in a case against three member states, it argues that member states should tax port institutions as if they were purely commercial companies. that is a bad decision which will undermine employment, growth and investment in our flemish and european ports. i wonder whether this is a secret strategy to interfere in the taxation of the member states or whether the real intention is to bring our ports to the ground. our port companies do perform public tasks and therefore the state aid rules cannot be applied without further ado. with this attitude you are undermining the international competitiveness of our ports to the benefit of shanghai, singapore, hong kong and so on. and for you to punish three countries for a practice which is being applied throughout the eu is selective and anti-european.
i'm going to speak in dutch. i'm already, no, i'm only five seconds away. with this. commissioner, we believe that ports and port companies are not economic actors like other companies and that they do have a wider mandate. they are public companies whose purpose is to serve the public interest, without any profit motive. i think we must do everything we can to make our european ports - large and small, in the netherlands and france and in belgium too - even stronger. in the meantime, if i may say so, i think we should also be aware of other developments in the port sector which are taking place at the moment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not affected by the crisis. which was recently acquired for more than half by a chinese state-owned company. it would therefore be good if the commission also took up such cases and concentrated on such situations where vital public infrastructure in europe, in european transport companies, is in the hands of non-european governments. in the recent european commission policy paper on globalisation, the commission announces measures to this end. we would like the commission, commissioner, to concentrate on this too, to show the necessary flexibility and to do everything possible to ensure that our ports are as strong as possible internationally.
author. indonesia is a beautiful country. last year, 16 million tourists visited the islands for their beauty, their breathtaking nature, the hospitality of the people. but today we are particularly concerned about all the images and data that are reaching us today. last week, a video went viral on the internet in which men are whipped for having made love to each other. it is happening right now in beautiful indonesia. it's not just in aceh province, it's also in the rest of the country that lgbti people are discriminated against, persecuted, booed. we have to stop that. women and girls are also victims. do you know that right now half the girls under 14 are circumcised in that beautiful indonesia? commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let us continue to take the lead from europe. we must put human rights first. we must ask that these atrocities be stopped.
the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the baltic sea region. so i think it's clear now that we need more cooperation, not just between countries, but between the public and private sectors. you know that the private sector is a booming sector, growing in importance every day. more than 100 000 security companies are active worldwide, employing more than 3.5 million citizens, 1.5 million of them in europe. and that's good. but it is clear that we need to have a discussion about the use of these firms. what firms can we use, for what tasks, within what legal framework? how can we provide joint training? how can we make the exchange of data more fluid? all these questions have made it clear to us in the committee that there is an urgent need for a legal framework. in fact, commissioner, we are asking for a directive from the commission to harmonize the differences between the member states and to provide for standard rules to be complied with by firms. in this way, for example, we are asking for an open list of firms that we as the eu can call upon. we have to describe very clearly what they have to meet, what standard requirements they have to meet. because you know that if we involve companies from the european union, and they violate human rights, that also damages our image and that is exactly what we want to prevent here in the committee. the report also calls for every contract with the private sector to include detailed requirements about - and that will make sense to you - gun ownership, who works there, what licenses are there and how data exchange is handled. these are things we do ask of the firms we may assign duties to. mrs mogherini, our report goes very far in making very concrete suggestions and asking the european commission questions. but there is one that i particularly want to see, and that is that you should draw up a green paper. i know, it's often said, green books, white books, so many books... but i think a green paper is in order here. that we start a clear consultation with all the actors in the security data, both public and private, and that we really start consulting. i think this needs to happen fast, too. this is what the citizens of europe expect. if we have this, mrs mogherini, we will be better able to carry out proper monitoring and also to see where abuses are taking place. ladies and gentlemen, you know that i often speak about defence here, and in this case i would venture to say: more defense for less money. we know that in europe there are shrinking defence budgets everywhere, that we have to deal with fewer defence personnel everywhere. and, moreover, the tasks we are asked to perform to respect and guarantee our security require ever more specialised expertise. so we know that if we want to be able to handle those jobs on a long-term basis, we have to start working with the private sector. we're going to be able to increase the safety of our citizens. that is why i hope that you will take this report to come up with that directive and those standards. then it's also clear what private security companies are allowed to do. more defence for less money. because it may be clear: we're not going to use private security companies to take over the military's duties. of course, that cannot be the intention. but we can use private security companies to perform certain non-military tasks in field operations. then we can control them very well. mrs mogherini, i would very much like us to take this report to heart. i would like to thank all my colleagues very much. we have worked very hard on this report and i hope that it will be adopted by a large majority tomorrow.
in writing. precarious employment is increasing. the number of workers with indefinite and involuntary parttime contracts has increased considerably after the financial and economic crisis. at the same time, we can see more fake self-employment, more poverty in work and an erosion of labour rights. it should be remembered that precarious employment not only harms the individual but also has considerable costs for society in terms of tax losses and higher public expenditure. that is why we have decided to reiterate our call for a directive on decent working conditions.
for the ecr group despite malta being the smallest eu member state, the maltese presidency managed to make some progress in areas that our citizens are aware of. in the area of asylum, migration and security, malta has made a strong effort to curb illegal migration flows from africa to europe. malta, for example, advocated training the libyan coastguard so that they could stop the migrants. all this to prevent african fortune seekers from illegally crossing the mediterranean sea via libya to europe. in addition, malta has managed to significantly increase the number of persons returning voluntarily. the figures prove that a strong and sustained approach to the migration crisis remains necessary. last week, as many as 10,000 economic migrants made the crossing from libya to italy in just two days! i therefore hope that estonia will continue to give priority to tackling the migration crisis, building on the work of malta. it is actually quite shocking to find that almost two years after the outbreak of the migration crisis, our external borders are still wide open and we continue to rely on non-eu countries to guard our borders. malta also managed to align all 27 member states on etias. this is a us-style system to pre-screen all non-eu travellers who are allowed to travel to the eu without a visa. the idea is to keep criminals out. in short, a small country that managed to make its mark on the european scene.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i would like to begin by raising a point of order, if i may. mr president of the commission, i myself come from a small state, and i fully understand your indignation: you are right to point out that the head of government of a small state is entitled to the same respect from this house as a head of state or government of a large state. nevertheless, i believe it was your responsibility to deliver your speech as you intended to do and therefore not to respond to one lack of respect with another lack of respect. that said, i'm coming to my point. mr muscat, i will begin by defining socialism as: 'a theory aimed at transforming social organization to a goal of justice between people in terms of work, pay, education, housing, etc.' i will not teach you anything, mr muscat, by saying that fair taxation is an absolutely crucial lever to achieve this objective of social justice. what have we seen from the maltese presidency in this respect? first, there was a great silence. in the priorities announced, the words 'taxation' or 'fiscality' were conspicuous by their absence. but was this surprising, given that malta, with an effective tax rate for multinationals of 5%, is, like belgium, the netherlands and luxembourg, part of the european tax haven club, at least for multinationals? then the panama papers and even a maltese government agency exposed the involvement of important political figures in the country in fraud, tax evasion and money laundering. so it is not surprising that the maltese presidency is not pushing the fight for tax justice, is not taking advantage of the opacity of trusts, which are one of the most essential vehicles in this phenomenon, or is not willing to shield senior european politicians from the scrutiny of the banks. in fact, your government prefers tax certainty to tax justice. this is the subject of the only initiative taken by your finance minister on taxation. let's get this straight. this is to give multinationals and, therefore, their managers and shareholders, visibility into the taxes they will have to pay. we are told that this visibility is being called into question by the flood of new rules being drawn up in the wake of the many scandals we have seen in recent years. in other words, rather than responding to the anger of those who are victims of tax injustice, you think it is more important to reassure the holders of capital. mr muscat, who would have guessed, given this record, that you are a socialist?
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the matter which will be put to the vote this afternoon is a crucial one, because we are really at the crossroads of european fiscal construction. the question is: what kind of europe do we want? a europe of fiscal justice or a europe of deregulation? a europe that treats its citizens and businesses alike or a europe that encourages tax aggressiveness between its multinationals, smes and start-ups to the detriment of its citizens? the country-by-country reporting is directly linked to tax transparency. i think it is really an additional tool to fight all the scandals we have known. first of all, i would like to thank the commission for taking the fight against tax evasion seriously. since the beginning of the parliamentary term, and particularly at the instigation of commissioner moscovici, a set of proposals has been put on the table and concrete measures have been adopted in this area. i am thinking in particular of the directive on the mandatory automatic exchange of information on tax returns, the directive on the rules for combating tax evasion and the directive on money laundering. at the same time, parliament has not been left behind, since we have also worked on this dossier, whether through the taxe 1 and 2 reports or, soon, the future recommendations of the committee of inquiry into the panama papers, which is further evidence of the need to legislate in this area. commissioner, you proposed a text to us, which we have amended. i would like to highlight five key elements in this report. the first is the threshold for enterprises, which is set at 750 million per year. we would have liked a threshold of 40 million, or no threshold at all, so that all multinationals could be put on an equal footing. but we have reached agreement on this threshold, and on the need for the commission to carry out an impact assessment after four years to assess whether this threshold should be lowered and whether the list of criteria is sufficient in relation to the objective pursued. the second element, which was strongly requested by civil society, concerns data: it will be published in a common register accessible to all free of charge. the third element is the list of criteria, such as the name of the company, the number of full-time employees or the value of assets, which will be published. this will enable the competent authorities to detect any errors or fraud. the fourth element concerns sanctions. each member state may decide to impose sanctions on companies that do not comply with the directive and therefore do not publish their data. finally, the last element is the full disaggregation of data, as already provided for in action 13 of the oecd beps project. this means that data will have to be broken down by country, sector and year. this is a key element. a safeguard clause has been added to protect sensitive business data, because we all here in parliament understand that we must also protect our multinationals. but unfortunately we have a difference of opinion on this point as regards the definition of the safeguard clause, because we socialists believe that the companies concerned can ask a member state for a derogation not to publish data which would be commercially sensitive, but under four conditions. the first is that this derogation must be applied for again each year. the second is that its relevance must be assessed and examined by the european commission to avoid problems like swissleaks. if the latter considers that the request for a derogation is unfounded, the undertaking must publish the data. as regards the third criterion, we believe that, when this derogation is terminated, the undertaking concerned must publish the data which were the subject of the derogation retroactively. finally, we think it is important that there should be a time limit for derogations. for us, this limit should be the tax prescription in each member state so as not to give a bonus of amnesty to potential cheats. i think it is really essential, for better tax justice, that we can know where the biggest companies make their profits and how much tax they pay in each of the states where they are active. without this information, tax fairness will never become a reality. every euro of tax not paid by multinationals is a euro too much paid by households. we must restore trust and tax justice in europe. i have to thank my colleague, evelyn regner, who is my co-rapporteur, and all the fictitious rapporteurs, but, madam president, i will come back to this in my conclusions.
multinationals in each country have to disclose how much profit they make, what their turnover is, how much tax they pay, how many people they employ. we've agreed to this internationally. we've entered that, that information needs to be delivered to the irs. now the european union wants to make that information public too. i think we can all agree that we are against tax evasion. of course, multinationals should not have more privileges or advantages than our own smes. and of course, we need more transparency. more information needs to be made public. at the same time, i would like to call for realism and against naivety. because in all fairness: it's always the same song. we have to be very careful about the way we use our money. that puts our companies at a disadvantage here in europe. they must do something and foreign companies must not. if we want to create jobs in our own country, we must be very careful about that.
vice—president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank everyone for this debate and also to take the opportunity to thank the rapporteurs, ms evelyn regner and mr hugues bayet, for their dedicated work, and all the members of this house who continue to bring corporate tax transparency closer to reality. we must continue to work together as the eu to achieve public tax transparency and, at the same time, we must be mindful not to jeopardise our competitiveness. we believe that our proposal strikes the right balance and hope that we will get this proposal agreed as soon as possible.
the rapporteur. madam president, as rapporteur, i would like to thank all my colleagues for their speeches. as i said when presenting this report, we are really at a crossroads in the construction of european taxation. our debate demonstrates this, and i am glad that we can vote on this text this afternoon. i hope it will have the largest possible majority. i would just like to make a technical reminder, because it is clear that every politician can defend his ideals, but i think it becomes problematic when you say the opposite of what is actually written in the texts. perhaps it is a matter of understanding, but as far as competition is concerned, i would ask all those who have doubts to read article 48b (3) again before the vote, which provides that any non-european company which has a subsidiary in europe is subject to the same conditions of publicity. this means that an american or asian multinational company with a subsidiary in europe will have to publish exactly the same information as european companies. so there will be no distortion of competition and i know of no, absolutely no, multinational company with a turnover of €750 million, which has no subsidiary in europe or which could lose a market of more than 500 million consumers. i think that there is a misunderstanding of this article. finally, i hope that i have been able to convince you, with all humility, of the need to vote for the safeguard clause, which is the most transparent, because i really want to ensure that the political world can never again be blamed for future tax scandals. i would like to conclude by thanking all the fictional rapporteurs who worked with evelyn and myself for their work, their perseverance and the understanding and respect they have shown during all the work on this dossier, which is - as you all know - technically and politically difficult. finally, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a special thank you to my colleague evelyn, with whom it has been a pleasure to work.
in writing. civil society is calling for public transparency extending to all subsidiaries of multinationals in all countries. at present, multinational companies still take advantage of the international tax system to arrange for their almost complete immunity from corporate income tax. the imf estimates the loss of tax revenue due to these tax-optimization maneuvers by multinational corporations at $600 billion a year, and $200 billion a year for developing countries alone. in the united states, president trump and the republicans have succeeded in abolishing all forms of tax transparency for multinational corporations. we must not follow in their footsteps.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president tajani has given me the honour of speaking at this ceremony of tribute, because simone veil was a great lady from the liberal and democratic family. she belonged to the generation that preceded me and guided my commitment, the generation that europe has seen the worst of its history, but which has been able to make the best of a destiny shattered by war and deportation. simone veil, born jacob, of an old french jewish family, was 16 when she was deported to auschwitz with all her family. we were only a year away from the defeat of nazism, but the death camps were still running at full speed. only simone and her sister survived that hell, where they saw their father, mother and brother disappear. she'll live her whole life with the number 78651 tattooed on her arm. the holocaust, its horrors and its memory will, i believe, forge the strong and whole personality of simone veil. as a young married woman, she studied law, at a time when women were in the home, and quickly became a renowned magistrate. when she was appointed minister of health in 1974 by valéry giscard d'estaing, no one would have bet a former french franc on this senior civil servant to get the president's flagship promise, i.e. the decriminalisation of abortion, to be voted on. (applause) i would like to thank yet, faced with an assembly made up almost exclusively of men, as she herself would point out, simone veil braved all political dangers to build a majority in the centre under the hounds of the traditional, sometimes anti-semitic, old right. this feminist struggle, this progressive struggle propels simone veil into politics through the open door. however, his ambitions are not directed towards france, but towards europe. as has already been said, in 1979 the members of the european parliament were elected for the first time by universal suffrage, making this election a test of the people's commitment to the construction of europe. it is the auschwitz survivor, who harbors no hatred or rancor against germany, who has been elected. on the contrary, it advocates reconciliation around the shared values of liberal democracy and the rule of law, and it is on this discourse that its list is largely at the top in france. she is joining the liberal group, from which she will be the winning candidate to become the first speaker of our assembly. this was the beginning, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, of a long parliamentary career until his return to the french government in the 1990s. it would be too long to list all the achievements and successes of simone veil, who was to chair the liberal group from 1984 to 1989. parliament had few powers at the time, but it used all its energy to support the major projects of the time: the single european act, the accession of spain and portugal, which thus entered our european family, and also the reforms that were to bring europe out of its torpor, which was then called the 'euroclerosis'. in reality, simone veil never really left public life until her death, and, after making her eternal by making her an academician, france is now wondering about her elevation to the panthéon. but it is right that, in this very room, mr president, here in strasbourg, a place so symbolic of this dual french and european destiny, homage should be paid to this truly exceptional figure, the embodiment of our shared history and also the embodiment of our common future. (applause) i would like to thank
rapporteur. – as agreed with the shadows on this report, i want as rapporteur to introduce an oral amendment on paragraph four – after ‘except for self—defence’, we want to introduce the following: ‘and under no circumstances should private security companies be allowed to take part in or conduct interrogations’.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr timmermans, according to the world health organisation, every year between 20 000 and 30 000 europeans die from asbestos, a substance known to cause cancer since the early 1960s. however, it was not until 1997 that it was banned in europe. meanwhile, hundreds of thousands of lives have been ruined or lost. you will say to me: 'what is the connection with the commission's work programme?' other i just want to say this: when i see you at work, i see that you are still and always the same, that you are in a disorderly way. you're going to say, "no, not at all". but the facts are there. despite growing opposition from our fellow citizens, you persist in wanting to conclude free trade agreements tailored to multinationals, as, again this week, with japan. ten years after the start of the global financial crisis, what do we see? the commission proposes instead to reverse financial regulation by opposing any increase in the capital of banks, at the very moment when, in italy, taxpayers are again called upon to take their wallets to save these same banks. you insist on making our fellow citizens swallow glyphosate, whether they like it or not, and, as you say, we can only ban endocrine disruptors once we have proved their harmfulness, that is to say, as in the case of tobacco or asbestos, once we have established the health disaster. as for your recommendations on work, they are based on a totem: make it flexible, make it flexible and make it flexible. mr timmermans, when you talk about better lawmaking, who do you have in mind? to our fellow citizens or to the capitalists? when you talk about impact analysis, do you mean impact on lives or impact on profits? these rules which you so easily call 'non-tariff barriers to trade', we prefer to call them for what they are, namely protections which should ensure the possibility of a decent life for all our fellow citizens. mr. timmermans, you and i were kids in 1968. what i mean by that is that neither you nor i are bound by that crazy slogan of may, that it is "forbidden to ban". when there is a certain or well-founded suspicion that financial, chemical, agricultural, food or general purpose products are toxic, the only responsible course of action is to ban them.
as usual, once again with my colleague across the street, peter liese. and that is why we are disappointed in these groups that a broad common progressive vision is not being developed. for example, on global warming and the implementation of the paris agreement. you should all agree on that, right? it should be central to our action and to the action of the commission. the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one. the commission's initiatives, which are worthwhile, for example in the field of clean energy, were taken before the implementation and evaluation of the implementation of the paris agreement. that means we have to be more ambitious than those proposals and we have to actually translate the paris agreement into what we are doing here, for example by moving faster on initiatives around the co2 emissions of cars, and we have to do that very ambitiously. in this connection, i would also like to draw attention to the conclusions of our emis committee of inquiry, which has set out very ambitious objectives and new initiatives with regard to the euro 7 standard. because another problem, mr liese, is the health and quality of our air: we had the fraudulent software, and now we find that consumers all over the european union are removing filters from their cars which today make a modern euro 6 car emit more than a euro 3 or euro 4! so i would very much like the commission's work programme to put those kinds of initiatives - climate, sustainability, clean air - at the top of the political agenda.
we in the alde group also support the package of measures which is before us today. and if we want to make europe future-proof, if we want to convince citizens of our european project, then we know that we must commit ourselves to tackling asylum and migration, to the fight against terrorism, but above all to european defence. more than two thirds of our european citizens rightly ask for europe to commit more to european defence! so i welcome the proposals you make here today. i think, frankly, that we have made more progress in the last two years than in the last 60 years. defence was an important point in the founding of the european union, but we have relied on the americans to guarantee our security for far too long. for us liberals, it's very clear: the most ambitious scenario is the only scenario that will help us. the commission proposes three scenarios. for us liberals, a real european defence union, and for me personally: i would very much like to move towards a real european army. this may seem a step too far for many, but i believe it is the most necessary step if we are to ensure the safety of our citizens. mrs mogherini has rightly quoted the figures: 50% of the us defense budget, an output of 15%. there are studies that say we waste between 26 and 100 billion euros a year by not cooperating! so please, let's do it now. also the nato argument, with the statements of trump, with the brexit coming. if we do not take these steps now, europe is doomed. so please, on behalf of myself and the alde group: the european defence union will be established very soon, with headquarters, operations and, as far as i am concerned, a european army. let us then assure our citizens that we can guarantee their safety.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, your reflection paper on the future of the eu's finances is really very interesting. i don't have much time, so i'll just stick to the essentials. i fully share the concern expressed in your document to establish a link between respect for the union's fundamental values and access to the various european funds to support public and private investment. member states which have waived solidarity in one area are not entitled to require solidarity in other areas. i also support - and i quote from your paper - the priority of investing in people. i read: 'a child guarantee, supported by european union funds, could thus be set up on the model of the youth guarantee'. that is new and interesting, commissioner. i am in favour of the creation of a macroeconomic stabilisation mechanism, which your document aptly calls the 'bad day fund'. i support the idea of creating a crisis reserve funded by unused appropriations from previous years and the creation, in the spending programmes, of an unscheduled reserve, which would be available to deal with unforeseen events. finally, as co-rapporteur on this dossier, i fully support the need to implement new own resources in the next multiannual financial framework. these new own resources are essential, as you said, to deal with three realities: the consequences of brexit, the burdens resulting from the new challenges and the reluctance, it must be admitted, of many member states to increase their contribution to the union budget from their own budgets. the options you propose in this area, or at any rate suggest, following the monti report, are relevant: no more rebates, the introduction of an own resources basket, in direct connection with two priority objectives of the union: decarbonisation and the deepening of the single market, and new revenue from european policies. i would add, commissioner, that in the context of the next multiannual financial framework, i am in favour of limiting, by the end of this financial framework, the proportion of gni resources for the budget.
2,889 times. what is it? turkey has been condemned 2,889 times by the european court of human rights. that is the worst result of all countries! that is why we voted in this european parliament last year for a resolution to stop, freeze and withhold european funding for turkey. but a week later, a week after the vote on that resolution, the 2017 budget was voted on in this same parliament. what was the result? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources available to the member states are used to the full. and i have to be honest with you: i was surprised when i saw the budget, the draft budget for next year 2018. what's in it? another 640 million for turkey, again as accession aid! this is not normal anymore! this is not serious anymore. i hope therefore that this parliament will finally be consistent and vote against this budget, together with the nva members of the european parliament.
mr president, first of all, i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, mr mureşan. he is clearly emerging as one of the most talented representatives of the new parliamentary generation. overall, we agree with the guidelines of his report. i'm just briefly reiterating our priorities. firstly, smes, because they create jobs. secondly, the priority given to the younger generations, with erasmus+ and the youth employment initiative. thirdly, a humanistic policy, one of solidarity but also realistic in the face of the massive influx of migrants and refugees. fourthly, support for the european defence fund. fifthly, that at least 20% of the union's expenditure be earmarked for the achievement of the objectives set by cop21. we will see to it that this is the case.
in writing. a few weeks ago, in the committee on gender equality, i had the sad honour of announcing that saudi arabia had just been appointed to the un commission on the status of women. saudi arabia will therefore help protect and promote gender equality and women's rights around the world. it would be laughable if it were not so appalling, so unfortunate, so outrageous! this country that considers women to be minors all their lives, and therefore under permanent male guardianship. this country doesn't allow women to drive. this country, which in march launched the "women's council" ... but without women! let's face it, the huge lobbying by saudi arabia to get this post is only in the interest of buying a "human rights" label to improve its deplorable image in this area. in order for saudi arabia to be nominated, at least five european countries had to vote in favour of the country. europe was complicit in this deception, and in particular belgium and its foreign minister didier reynders. this vote is nothing less than another violation of women's rights!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. if european funds are misappropriated through fraud, then the eu must also get its own weapons to defend itself. that is what the citizens expect of us. different definitions of fraud and inconsistent practices by member states are almost inviting fraudsters to commit fraud and consequently making it very difficult to prosecute. this agreement, this directive, is therefore a major step in the right direction. i am particularly pleased that vat fraud has been included in this directive. it is estimated that member states lose €170 billion a year, more than the total eu budget spent on all policies combined. the creation of a european public prosecutor is also important in this context. european fraud cases must be prosecuted, investigated and punished in a european manner. i maintain that this opinion is good and that this directive is a milestone and that it is not ridiculous or ridiculous to pay due tribute to it at 0.10 p.m. tonight.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, commissioners, colleagues. these are turbulent times. we face challenges which spread far beyond the borders of the european union. we face global challenges which connect us all and require a global response. we face a humanitarian crisis, conflict at our doorstep and a barely recovering economy. this is why we need the summit to be fruitful. talk is cheap, and our electorate wants to see results. unfortunately, leader summits have become better known for updating the family photo than for plotting a strategic course for the next twelve months. leaders need to start looking at what they can realistically achieve at a global level in the next few months, and whilst the eu is willing to take on more and more responsibility on the world stage, the eu cannot start believing that it can solve every crisis by itself. we do not need an eu which thinks that just one policy can solve the migration crisis, but an eu which works with the un, nato, and the g20 to end the funding of terrorism and to punish the barbaric practice of human trafficking. the eu needs to sit at the table and commit to making the eu as global-facing and pro-free trade as possible. the eu needs to champion less regulation and lower taxes, not more red tape and bureaucracy. we need an eu which lives up to its obligations to protect the environment without stifling business, because it is jobs and growth which draw people out of poverty and prevent unsustainable economic migration. it is jobs and growth which bring countries closer together and gives people more self-confidence and respect. that is what we need to better connect us as nations and to help us move forward with confidence, unity and renewed vigour in the coming months.
"blue card" question. what is it? mr de graaff, it is not the first time i have heard you speak in the house on this subject, making accusations against people who work very hard. i think that your statement that there are criminal ngos because they rescue people at sea who would otherwise drown should be deleted from the report. there are indeed people smugglers, traffickers, who must be punished, but we must not ridicule ngos who are doing very good work on the ground as if they were criminals. mr president, i urge that these gratuitous accusations by mr de graaff be removed from the report. let us, as europe, have a genuine european asylum and migration policy, so that we do not have to rely on ngos, but that we are grateful to them for their work.
i am using this geopolitical forum, the preparations for the g20, to make a plea for the revision of the geneva convention. what began as a concept with noble and lofty aims has become totally out of date and outdated by the facts. the care of refugees, mainly from the then communist east europe, has now become a mere industrial mass invasion with cultural uprooting, rape and endless unemployment as its consequences, a dark alliance between a dirty business, between ngos, human traffickers and all under the auspices of the european institutions. stop that geneva convention, replace it with a genuine refugee status with a host in your own region, and, as we see now in syria, return to your countries of origin after the conflict is over.
building a connecting world sounds a little bit cynical when you see what's happening in italy again. you yourself said, vice-president timmermans, that if all the member states had done what we had agreed to do to deal with the crisis, we would not be in this predicament today. it's a real shame we're back there. i say this because many people interfere. i certainly want to support that. but i also say this because we know that in the meantime, we're not going to solve the migration crisis by taking short-term measures, but by effectively creating a connected world. one of the first and most important things we have to do in the g20 is to make sure that there can be, there should be, some kind of united position on the implementation of the paris climate agreement. because if we don't address climate, these are the foreplay, the migration problems of today are the foreplay of tomorrow, and those problems are getting bigger and bigger. i emphasized very strongly yesterday in the commission's work programme that the first thing we must do is set the right example ourselves and i am also looking at my colleagues in the hemisphere. we're working on a number of files, like the clean energy package. let us set as high an ambition as possible, that is our first responsibility. secondly, the united states. we all know, i'm not at all positive about what president trump can and will do, but let's not turn our backs on the united states. let us reach out to those states in the united states that do want to make progress, that are not at all served by trump's policies. i think that the necessary work must also be done in bilateral contacts within the g20. a third point: we have tradable emission rights today. let's not just hold on to that, but let's use it as a connection to put in place some really good pricing mechanism around co2 in the rest of the world. good luck, i should say. i think that more than ever, we need to take these actions on a global scale.
i recently paid a working visit to estonia and i must say that i was impressed by the pioneering role you are playing in the field of digital and, more specifically, in the field of e-government and administrative simplification. you yourself set the example that your taxes can be filed from anywhere. i therefore have high expectations of this presidency, because a presidency so focused on the digital dimension will undoubtedly help us to accelerate the development of the digital single market, which is so important for europe, or at least to accelerate it. i think it is also in the interest not only of a well-functioning digital single market but also of the european consumer to bring together the important ongoing dossiers, such as the geoblocking dossier, but also the dossier on vehicle type approval. good luck with that.
this turkey report is black as a sheet. but we knew this was coming. how many times have i warned you here about the authoritarian course of this regime and said: this turkey has no place in the european union, the means of accession must no longer be directed towards erdogan. eur 640 million next year. money that erdogan invests in rubber bullets to shoot the gay pride, ink to sign the arrest warrants for teachers and journalists, in bullies who turn kurdish villages into rubble. how do we explain to our citizens that the nickel on their pay stubs is the plus on erdogan's bank account? the union's willingness to stop the accession negotiations and funding is at stake for erdogan. over 200 journalists in the cells. thousands of academics, judges and civil servants were sent out of the way. schools and colleges closed... are we still not convinced that this is contrary to all eu principles? democracy is a troublesome ghost from the past for erdogan, which he is trying to drive away with brutal violence and with our money. choose credibility and principles now, and stop!
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, it has been 18 years since i was elected to parliament, 18 years of fighting for a single seat and finally today, this debate in plenary. finally, the resonance that good governance of our work deserves, and this is not for lack of trying. as early as 1981, the zagari report was already advocating a single seat for the european parliament, with a sort of interim status for strasbourg. the arguments have already been made and are well known: eur 114 million is the floor estimate of the monthly transhumance imposed by the treaties; 89% occupancy rate of buildings, which we invest only four days a month; two days a month, or 10% of the time, wasted moving, with disastrous consequences for the climate: 19,000 tons of co2 a year. the paris agreement is crying because of our erroneous actions. i will stop there, i said it, and the arguments are known, as are the positions of the european parliament and, particularly, of the liberal group which i represent here, which are always clearer, always stronger and always misunderstood. the 2006 petition for the single seat: 1 300 000 signatures from all over europe, a genuine european citizens' initiative before the letter, our votes in committee, in plenary and in successive and multiple working groups and, above all, the polls in different countries, including france, for a single seat. the european parliament is the only one in the world that sits far from its nerve centre. we too, dear friends and colleagues, are deeply committed to the imperative duty of remembrance and reconciliation which has made, continues to make and will make our history. but the symbols need to be shaken up, they need to be modernized. today, strasbourg has become the centre of bad governance in europe and elsewhere. but she deserves better, she deserves so much better. why not take advantage of the opportunity that brexit offers us with the transfer of the european medicines agency? simone veil dreamed in her memoirs of a european university in strasbourg: the capital of alsace, the european centre of medicine and biotechnology, would be a magnificent example. it is up to president macron today to make this qualitative leap. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, for years we have been preoccupied by this debate, and everything has been used: parliamentary frivolity, one argument after another... of course, the structural problems of the brussels building are a blessing to you today. i do not think that with this problem, which is temporary and will be solved, you will be able to say that you refuse to make any progress on solving a real structural problem, which is that of the gridlock and bad governance in strasbourg. you're buying time, you're playing the clock. i think it's a little short. i think you could have done better here. the problems in brussels will be solved, if only they are proved, because the secret room where we can read the reports will be open from monday. i will go there and i am not convinced that these problems are of the order of those which have been mentioned.
i'd like to call to think outside the box for a moment. i take note of what the french minister for european affairs said some time ago. and i also recognize that strasbourg is a symbol of peace. it's a pleasant town, too. i've been coming here since 1983, and the city has changed for the better, too. but many colleagues have pointed out that this comes at a great cost and the opportunity that is there because of brexit and the transfer of some agencies to strasbourg is still an opportunity, a moment to see if this is not also a positive socioeconomic story for strasbourg. there is a saying: we want to make strasbourg the unique seat. french colleagues, can you handle this in the city of strasbourg? it means that at the moment no less than six thousand people are working in the political groups and in the administration of the european parliament, six thousand people who have to find accommodation here. it's about 751 members of parliament who have to find accommodation here. it's about 1,800 accredited assistants who have to find accommodation here. it's about extra accommodation for journalists and lobbyists! can the city of strasbourg cope with that? i doubt it!
member of the commission. – mr president, i have listened with interest to all the speakers today but i will not enter into the substance of the issue. as i said at the beginning, decisions on the seats of the eu institutions are not a matter for the commission.
in writing. the proposal to move the european medicines agency (ema) to strasbourg after brexit is gaining support. in exchange for the much-desired eu agency, the monthly move of the european parliament to strasbourg can finally be brought to an end. 80% of meps are in favour of one seat; let's make it work. the monthly move not only costs a handful of dollars, but is also a huge burden on the environment. the end of that shuttle will save up to 114 million euros a year and reduce co2 emissions by 19,000 tons. the fact that the office of medicines is located in strasbourg also has undeniable economic advantages for the capital of alsace: the newly created office will be a newly created office, with a staff of 1,000 highly qualified (permanent) staff and a daily turnover of hundreds of experts.
in writing. year after year, three quarters of meps vote for a single seat in the european parliament. we represent the people of europe, so you can say that an overwhelming majority of europeans reject the wasteful move between brussels and strasbourg. this is what a survey of 1.7 million europeans showed. the persistence of the multiple locations also fuels euroscepticism in the union. no one can account for a waste of 180 million euros a year and an additional emission of 19,000 tons of co2, the equivalent of 4,900 flights between berlin and new york. the strasbourg symbol represents the reconciliation between france and germany after the second world war and therefore the deeper meaning of the union. that is why strasbourg must not be written off. we have a unique momentum to make strasbourg the seat of the european medicines agency. this move provides a new argument, namely that the economic return to the city will be greater than the eur 20 million in economic input that strasbourg receives from the monthly relocation of the parliament. let us take advantage of this momentum and create a win-win situation, both for strasbourg and for the european parliament and the european people.
i am a flemish. i am a flemish patriot, a flemish nationalist, and my nationalism is a very open nationalism. we stand in the world open, convinced and driven like flemings. but i can see that others are locking themselves away, that they do not want to trade with other countries, that they see anything foreign as a threat. and we must remove that uncertainty, with determination and with courage. and also by emphasizing the obvious: our identity, our story, our brand, our quality label. being flemish with all that it entails, all the freedoms, all the rights and duties, all the norms and values. i would therefore like to call on all flemings: please come out of the closet and stand in the window, proud, obvious, casual, like fleming. i would like to wish you all a splendid holiday, a splendid 11 july, from this european parliament. long live flanders, long live the flemish.
rap avis empl. the eu is today taking one of the last steps in the ratification process of the marrakesh treaty. people who are blind, visually impaired or have a reading disability still have very difficult or no access to books and other printed material. the need to make more works and other protected material available in accessible forms such as braille, audio books and large type is great. the proposals on the table introduce a new mandatory exception to copyright in eu law in line with the marrakesh treaty. this will allow beneficiary persons and organisations to make accessible format copies of works and to distribute them in the eu and third countries party to the treaty. the marrakesh convention is of capital importance because across the eu more than 30 million people with visual impairments are finally getting equal access to the printed word. a small step for mankind, a giant leap forward for blind and partially sighted people!
for the ecr group commercial whaling has been banned worldwide for over 30 years, and yet countries like norway are proving to be hard-nosed. norway resumed commercial whaling in 1993. the country sets its own fishing quotas, and they are increasing. this year, almost 1 000 north atlantic minke whales will be caught and killed and exports of whale meat are also increasing. i took the initiative to put this on the agenda because we must continue to address these horrific practices. the whale is an iconic and beloved animal that deserves our protection. whaling does not only undermine the protection of biodiversity and marine ecosystems. it's also against international law. there is no public support for it. i thank you in advance, commissioner, for your reply and i understand that you share our concern. we are, i think, on the same side and our message must therefore be that we encourage you to continue to do everything possible to get norway to respect the global moratorium. our ports must not become, so to speak, accomplices in illegal shipping. i understand from your answer that we need more data and figures on this, that we need more control. i encourage you to work on that, too.
author. liu xiaobo spent 11 years in prison, without a fair trial, without contact with his family, in poor conditions and until a severe liver cancer became too much to ignore. and when he was awarded his nobel prize, his chair was left empty. this man is one of the most admirable people in the world. he gave up his freedom for his activism. the same goes for lee ming-che. he too is a victim of china's repressive policies. he too is an activist who has given up his freedom to fight for human rights. it is time that we in europe send a clear signal to china: release the human rights activists immediately. they don't belong in captivity. two, of course, give them the medical care they need, that's also humane. and thirdly, and this is something i keep asking the european union: we must continue to fight for human rights everywhere. these two men, with their sharp pens and peaceful efforts, have already saved many lives. now it's up to us to do the same for them.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, a nobel peace prize winner is slowly dying in china, released from prison to silence the outcry, now hidden somewhere in a hospital in the north of the country, far from the tumult and protest of the world. liu xiaobo is dying. his liver cancer has spread and beijing continues to refuse his family's request to be treated abroad. but let us be reassured that foreign doctors have just been invited to visit the peace activist's bedside and, of course, president xi jinping's participation, as of tomorrow, in the g20 in hamburg has nothing to do with it. the chinese authorities are cynical and will not allow the godfather of the beijing spring to die with the dignity he deserves. no mercy for lee ming-che, who was arrested in taiwan last march. the activist is paying the price of the deteriorating relations between china and taiwan. a very heavy price. his family has no news of him and fears torture and life imprisonment. defending democracy on social media is a sin in beijing's eyes. so when the 20 most powerful countries of the world meet tomorrow in hamburg to talk about finance, to talk about the economy and to talk about interconnection, it will be up to angela merkel, emmanuel macron, justin trudeau and all the others to remind us that our eyes are also on the fate of lee, liu and all the others.
author. madam president, burundi is a country that is now devastated. since april 2015, after nkurunziza's decision to not respect the constitution, the country has entered a vicious cycle of repression. in two years, 1 200 people have been killed, between 400 and 900 disappeared, thousands have been arbitrarily arrested, more than 40 000 burundians have been displaced, and this in a disastrous socioeconomic situation which is weighing heavily on the entire burundian population. the violence is being perpetrated by burundian security services and militias acting also on their orders. a political landscape with a single party, a media landscape reduced to nothing, a justice system totally at the service of the regime and, as if this picture were not enough, nkurunziza is trying to change the constitution in order to establish a dictatorship beyond 2020. in the background, we also experience ethnic discrimination which is becoming a daily reality. nkurunziza is exploiting the political crisis by turning it into an ethnic crisis. we are asking for several things in the resolution: firstly, the fight against impunity; secondly, making any relationship with the country conditional on an improvement in the human rights situation; thirdly, support from the united nations. we also ask that the efforts of the east african community be supported and that there be transparency in the financing of burundian soldiers in relation to the militia in somalia.
as many of us have said here: the situation in burundi is shocking. and while in the region quite a few presidents are passing the test by seeking a third term, the burundian president goes even further. he'd like to run for a fourth term. that's gonna be the standard now. to do that, to maintain that absolute power, he and his minions are willing to go to great lengths. we 've heard a lot of things here . aid convoys are no longer allowed in, international observers are being denied access. what particularly concerns me is that ethnic cleansing is also taking place. more than 100 tutsi soldiers were killed! i was in rwanda with louis michel and guy verhofstadt at the time. we've seen coffins with skulls, coffins with hands, and coffins with feet. ethnic cleansing is a terrible thing and if you feel that it is going to spill over into burundi, that worries me. we must do everything we can to restore the peace to this country that it deserves. africa needs our support and so we must intervene when human rights are violated and abused. so let's call for an international investigation. let's make sure the burundians get the protection they deserve.
mr president, if i am not mistaken, i do not think we voted on amendment no 74. it was a roll call vote. maybe it's expired?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. violence against women, but also against men and children, is unacceptable, unacceptable. according to the recent study by the eu fundamental rights office, one in five women in the eu has experienced physical violence by someone other than their partner since the age of 15. and women with disabilities are estimated to be at one and a half to 10 times the risk of abuse. these are heartbreaking numbers. the eu must of course accede to the istanbul convention. we must stop violence against women and girls by any means possible. only 14 eu countries, including belgium, have ratified the istanbul convention so far. the member states must of course also do their part. but the eu can do more, for example in the area of victims' rights and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. it is high time that we made the fight against gender-based violence a top priority.
mr president, madam commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the two co-rapporteurs, mrs revault d'allonnes bonnefoy and mrs corazza bildt, on their excellent work. like all of you, i am appalled by the tragic situations that too many women and their children still face every day. while we advocate for human rights, these women who are victims of domestic violence are still too often denied them. how is it that even today we read that one in twenty women aged between 19 and 28 have been raped in europe, that one in three women have been physically abused in their youth and as young adults? it is imperative to react individually but also together in order to define a common strategy allowing equal protection of our fellow citizens throughout the european union. what shocks me today is the behaviour of some of our very conservative colleagues from different political groups who have backed subsidiarity and rejected this text, behaviour which is really conservative, guilty of not progressing towards a better situation than ratification by all the member states of the istanbul convention.
to achieve the goals of the paris agreement, all sectors must make an effort, including the aviation sector. and my delegation has always been in favour of including aviation in the emissions trading system. with the exception of international flights, we were much less satisfied. this exception is bad for the climate, bad for the environment. today, however, there are two new important elements in this dossier which justify a final extension of the exception for international flights. first of all, there is indeed the icao agreement of october 2016 that we want to give every chance of success. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. that way we keep the pressure on the boiler and the stick behind the door. i would like to congratulate mrs julie girling on her thoughtful approach and we will support her report fully.
julie girling summed it up perfectly: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport sector is not affected by the increase in air pollution. so i think we can all agree that aviation inevitably has to make a bigger environmental effort. but of course, we must not do this blindly. the measures now in place ensure that the competitiveness of european airlines is maintained and they create - and this is not much said here - perhaps also some room for those industrial sectors which have to make efforts on the ground and which are faced with this heavy international competition, to perhaps also relieve them. it is also a message to consumers. some say ticket prices will swing the pan. i think we all know that's not the case. there is talk of a 1 to 2% extra cost for travellers, for the tickets. so i think we know that the travellers, the consumers, are convinced that aviation and we all need to make an effort, precisely to make the paris agreement a success. aviation can no longer escape this.
i come from flanders, ladies and gentlemen, and that is a region which is much less forested compared to other eu member states, but we do have some beautiful forest pearls and we know how important they are. in my own town, we have the hallerbos. and the zonian forest, which was declared a world heritage site by unesco last summer, is also close to my heart. the forests are so valuable, we know. they are a source of rest, of recreation, a habitat for fauna and flora. their sustainable management has an economic dimension and contributes to a better climate and air quality. achieving the 2030 40% co2 reduction target requires efforts from all sectors. and my party, the n-va, is also convinced that forestry can and should make an important contribution to climate policy by reducing co2 in the air. we therefore support the ambition to reduce net emissions from forestry to zero by 2030 and then move towards a positive balance, a necessary contribution to a low-carbon society.
i'm the reporter. madam president, our globalised economic system is based on fragmented and mass production processes. most of the goods we consume today are the result of a combination of operations carried out in different parts of the world. sometimes for the better: complementary research, innovation partnerships, resources and raw materials to be sought in a respectful way. sometimes for the worse: cheap, unprotected labour, environmental destruction, tax evasion. these operations are often coordinated by international companies through contractual partnerships or multiple subcontracting. the european union, as the world's leading exporter and importer of goods and services, can - and i would even say must - use its trade policy as a real lever to turn these global value chains into tools for sustainable development for all, and thus contribute to a fairer and more equitable globalisation. at present, the lack of transparency and the dilution of responsibilities throughout this process increase the risks of exploitation of workers, non-respect of fundamental rights and promote unfair competition on a social, environmental and tax level. the report also comes at a time when european trade policy is facing strong criticism from citizens who are calling for fairer and more transparent globalisation. the commission is therefore called upon to take a series of measures to make global value chains more accountable and transparent. to name just a few, i will focus, for example, on the inclusion in trade agreements of a binding but also enforceable sustainable development chapter, as well as the clause against tax evasion and tax fraud. there are also initiatives inspired by conflict minerals legislation or the duty of vigilance of the enterprise within a binding duty of vigilance framework as set out by the oecd, or the establishment of a labelling system that ensures a production method that respects international labour and/or environmental standards. i would like to mention, for example, the initiative taken by italy today to label the origin of tomatoes produced in a respectful manner. many other important elements are also reflected in this report, such as initiatives and the role of the private sector, multilateralism and end-of-life management. this report is the result of long negotiations between the different visions of how to manage this globalisation. we have, i think, struck a good balance in pursuing a common objective, which is to make trade a tool for emancipation for all. a colleague of ours recently quoted the wise words of simone veil, who said: 'the search for compromises must lead us to a solution which is higher than the particular position of each individual'. this report, in my view, illustrates this research. i thank the fictitious rapporteurs, and particularly mr ruas, who is here, for having found compromises that were acceptable to all of us. i hope that many of us will vote for this report tomorrow.
on behalf of the group of the european right i think today is a sad day for all hardworking europeans. today they are the victims of the wastefulness of the european institutions. a year ago, president juncker was here, as has already been mentioned, and he launched the idea of free wi-fi for citizens in his state of the union. now, €120 million of taxpayers' money will be released to give some 7 000 municipalities a free wi-fi station. i have three specific objections to this. first of all, i think it's naive to think that this project is going to start a digital revolution. i think we'd be much better off investing the money in crucial new technologies, like 5g, and in super-fast internet. secondly, the elderly and the average tourist, two target groups that are explicitly targeted, will hardly use a free hotspot. i don't see seniors, who are not mobile, suddenly going to the market square to check their e-mail. tourists, now that we have free roaming, won't leave their little spot on the beach to check their facebook. thirdly, the plan also leads to the enlargement of the transfer union, because high-performing regions will be punished. that's why i say: europe should not focus on giving expensive gifts, but on jobs, security and migration.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to welcome you to the other side of the table and wish you all a good cooperation, ladies and gentlemen. free internet in 6,000 to 8,000 hospitals and parks, public libraries, town halls - i think this is a great idea! we are in a parliament. some say it's bad, and some say it's good. i think what we're doing here is good, every time. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. what's it a signal for? it's a signal that a hotspot only works where there's real internet and where there's fast internet. this means that we have to make a huge effort to have this fast internet all over europe. there are still - especially in rural areas - so-called white spots. there's no internet at all. what used to be roads and electricity, where you invested a lot of money from the public sector, is now the internet, and we have to put a lot of money into it. this wifi4eu is a signal to do so. we must make these efforts so that the digital agenda we have written on our flags in a big way can also be realized. i have strongly advised the municipalities in my constituency to apply for this initiative. it's a good initiative. the bottom line is: let's do it and let's do it unbureaucratically. then everyone gets a little something.
madam president, commissioner, i congratulate you on the initiative and i congratulate mr zorrinho on his report, because the digital divide in the rural world has increased considerably because the liberalisation of the sector has simply meant that private companies' investments have been concentrated first on the cities. the fact that the public authorities, particularly in europe, are now helping to bridge this digital divide is obviously an excellent initiative. why would you do that? because rural areas - and this is more the local elected official speaking to you today - are also areas of life where people have to work. i think of doctors, i think of an orthopaedic surgeon in my commune in anthisnes who does not have access to his patients' protocols. i think of architects, graphic designers and students who are struggling to study today when they receive documents via the internet and they don't have broadband. this initiative is therefore a step in the right direction - provided it is an inspiration to others - and that is why i am naturally also calling on many rural communes to join this process and work with the european union to reduce the digital divide.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, it appears that on 20 july the belgian authorities informed the other member states and the commission about their findings of residues of fipronil in eggs. since then, the commission and the member states have been carrying out investigations and taking all necessary measures to protect consumers. it is now clear that the residues result from an illegal use of the product. while the overall responsibility for the investigations and protective measures remains with the commission and the member states, the presidency of the council has been following developments closely. on 5 september, at the informal meeting of the agriculture ministers held in tallinn, commissioner andriukaitis provided the ministers with an overview of the state of play and of the further actions planned. after this presentation, ministers held a discussion including, among other things, the need to ensure an efficient circulation of information in such cases. indeed, since the first contamination cases were reported, concerns have been raised, including in parliament, regarding possible weaknesses in the eu’s rapid alert system and the speed of information sharing. the question of how we can strengthen cooperation and the exchange of information between countries in order to deal more efficiently with such crisis situations will be further discussed at the high level ministerial meeting organised by the commission in brussels on 26 september, and we are grateful to the commission for taking this initiative. the outcome of that meeting will be presented to agriculture ministers at the october council session on 9—10 october this year. the ongoing investigations and follow—up discussions should give us a clear overall picture of what precisely happened and why, what went wrong and what can be improved. we will need this full clarity for our future debates. the council has consistently acknowledged the importance of food safety, high—level protection of public health and the prevention of food fraud. in its conclusions on the role of law enforcement cooperation in combating food crime adopted in 2014, the council encouraged the commission to continue its work on the fight against fraudulent and deceptive practices along the food supply chain and to develop any further action necessary for high-level protection of public health. furthermore, during the negotiations leading to the adoption of the new official controls regulation that entered into force on 27 april this year, parliament and the council agreed to reinforce the legal provisions to fight such practices. those reinforced provisions do not just include general rules. they also provide for the designation of european union reference centres for the authenticity and integrity of the agri—food chain, reinforced administrative assistance and cooperation mechanisms between member states, and enhanced coordinated assistance and follow—up by the commission. as i already mentioned, it seems clear that the present fipronil contamination is the result of fraudulent activity. there should be zero tolerance for such fraud. however, the infestation of hens by red mites is a real problem for many farms. therefore, we must also make every effort to ensure that legal and efficient ways to prevent and treat that infestation remain available. let me conclude by calling on all of us to support and encourage the actions taken by the commission and member states to ensure the safety of our daily food, to avoid these types of fraud and to resolve them efficiently whenever they occur.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by thanking you for this possibility to provide the house with the latest update on the recent contamination of eggs and egg products with fipronil. let me begin by assuring you that public health and food safety are always considered a top priority for me and are treated as such by the commission. coherently with this approach, the commission took immediately very seriously the fipronil issue. the situation continues to evolve, but i think it is important to clarify right from the beginning the succession of events. in november 2016, the dutch food authority was informed of the illegal use of fipronil in poultry but since there were no analytical results indicating the presence of fipronil in eggs or chicken meat, and also no danger to public health, the source of the problem was not established. tests on samples kept from september 2016 that revealed the presence of fipronil were done only recently and are under investigation by prosecutors from three countries – germany, the netherlands and belgium – to check these historical samples to assess what was known, when and by whom. prosecutors will help to answer these questions. on 2 june 2017, following self-controls by a belgian food business operator, the belgian authorities were notified of the presence of fipronil in eggs and started initiating an investigation to understand the source of the problem. as a consequence of this investigation, on 6 july the belgian authorities initiated a request for information from the netherlands in the administrative assistance and cooperation system. this is a different system, related to rasff. this system allows member states to liaise bilaterally or multilaterally to confirm rapidly suspected cases of fraud and is only actively monitored by the commission when a ‘european commission coordinated case’ is created. belgium initiated a normal case, not a european commission created case, which means that the commission was not an addressee of the notification and no follow-up was expected by the commission. once the belgian authorities had identified the source of fipronil in eggs and the possible extent of the problem, they notified the european union rapid alert system for food and feed (rasff) on 20 july 2017. therefore the commission was only informed of the fipronil contamination on 20 july. but as soon as the issue was notified through the rasff system, the commission took control of the situation, focusing on managing and minimising the consequences of the contamination. having said that, i want to start by stressing two points. firstly, that the risk to human health remains very low and has been successfully contained thanks to the measures which have been taken at european union level. and secondly, this incident is clearly the result of a criminal act resulting in food fraud. this is not to minimise the incident, as it relates to illegal use of an unauthorised substance, which is totally unacceptable, but this is not about a health risk issue. all contaminated eggs have been withdrawn from the market and the eggs from the few farms with acute risk levels have been recalled from consumers. so all in all, consumer safety has not been compromised. nevertheless, it appals me that the criminal actions of a few could jeopardise the integrity and reputation of our entire food chain. those criminals must be investigated and punished. so where are we now, today? the situation evolves every day, as you know; 26 member states and 23 non-eu countries have been affected by the contamination. since the very beginning of this criminal situation i have been systematically in contact with my counterparts in the member states most concerned. i have also asked for certain gaps in information to be verified and for detailed analysis and common views to be presented to me. i spoke with ministers for germany, the netherlands, belgium and austria. in response to the finding of fipronil the commission requested that specific measures be taken at national level; in particular we have instructed via rasff that the following measures be taken. first, on 31 july we shared information on applicable maximum residual levels and the measures to be taken as regards illegally treated farms. second, on 7 august member states were requested to be vigilant with respect to the possible use of other unauthorised substances used to control red mites in poultry establishments. third, on 16 august we reminded all member states that any past distribution of contaminated eggs, egg products or chicken meat had to be timely notified to rasff in order to ensure the appropriate follow-up by the authorities of the country of destination. apart from the immediate risk management actions, the commission has also taken additional important steps. on 21 august, a note on fipronil contamination was shared with our global partners to ensure transparency. the commission has also been in direct contact with a number of non-eu countries in order to limit the impact on the eu’s export capacity. on 30 august, we organised a meeting of the standing committee on plants, animals, food and feed, which agreed on an eu-wide monitoring exercise to investigate the possible use of illegal substances, including amitraz, in egg producing farms. i personally informed the european union ministers of the situation, collectively and bilaterally, in the context of the informal meeting of the agricultural and fisheries ministers last week in tallinn. finally, to avoid any potential side effects on the food chain, we are asking the competent authorities to ensure that contaminated food or animal bypass products do not find their way into animal feed and thus back into the food chain. let me assure you that my services are working hand in hand with those of commissioners malmström and hogan to ensure that the commission’s response remains coordinated, comprehensive and forward-looking. we also met with both the committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, where i was yesterday, and their suggestions, alongside yours today, will inform the ongoing response. now however we need to collectively examine what lessons can be learned and how we communicate and exchange information. this issue will also be discussed by the chief veterinary officers who will meet later this week, on 13 and 14 september. in addition the jrc will organise proficiency tests for official control laboratories in september. with this in mind, the commission is organising fact-finding missions in early october to the four member states where the original contamination occurred to gather information on the actions taken. this incident highlights the fact that we need to strengthen the way the european union networks dealing with food safety and food fraud are used. it is precisely for the reason of providing follow-up at political level that i have taken the initiative to call a high-level ministerial meeting on 26 september where we can reflect and agree on, first, how best to strengthen the way the eu networks dealing with food safety and food fraud are used, and second, how to improve coordination between the administrative assistance and cooperation system and the european union rapid alert system for food and feed. bear with me now a moment while i touch on the eu’s rapid alert system for food and feed which has been subjected to some misplaced criticism of late. the system was created in 1979 in response to the import of oranges contaminated with mercury. since then, rasff has ensured that the commission and member states were able to respond effectively to several crises, including crop contamination after chernobyl in 1980s, mad cow disease in mid-1990s and the more recent detection of e-coli bacteria in sprouts in the summer of 2011. rasff has identified hazards involving mycotoxins, heavy metals, allergens and pesticide residues. when it is used correctly and when it is fed with clear, rapid and reliable information by the control authorities of the member states, this system works. in practice, the rapid alert system for food and feed is mobilised when a member state notifies the system of a danger to public health. as the system’s manager, the commission verifies the notification and immediately communicates it to the other member states, and this is precisely what happened in the current situation. indeed, the use of rasff, in combination with food traceability provisions, has allowed us to quickly find and destroy the relevant food products in the eu. affected farms have been blocked and will remain so until member states are certain that their production is safe. let me be clear therefore, thanks to rasff multiple food-safety risks have been averted before they could harm european citizens. in 2016 alone almost 3 000 original notifications were transmitted through the system. many of these were alerts requiring and resulting in rapid actions. the original fipronil notification has led to nearly 600 follow—up alerts. while it is true that every system can be improved, it is worth stressing here that our analysis should focus more on the efficient use of, and interaction between, rasff and the administrative assistance and cooperation system rather than on their reliability. with this goal in mind, the commission is developing a common platform for these systems and exploring the possibility of a single network of member state authorities. now that we have a new official control law, i think this will help us to be more effective. let me finish by emphasising once more that close coordination and the steady flow of information between all parties is essential, especially in this case. we have constructed the european union’s food system and food fraud systems and networks together; now we must work collectively to maximise their potential and safeguard the highest standards of food safety for european citizens. parliament will be important in this regard and i am keen to hear your views on the matter today.
on behalf of the ppe group thank you, mr president, commissioner, thank you for the explanation. i think that the fipronil crisis has shown us, as you yourself have said, one thing very clearly, namely that there is a lack of information exchange between the various national agencies. we agree on that. that food safety information just needs to be shared automatically and shared quickly. i think we have now lost weeks, perhaps months, before that information could go smoothly from one member state to another, from one agency to another. that early warning system, to put it mildly, didn't work very quickly. that is at least the perception, and it is urgent that it be changed. it is good that you promised last night in our committee and here to come up with concrete measures to help eliminate this. those national alert systems should be directly linked to the european rapid alert system. that's got to be one oiled machine. that is what you say and we count on you to do so and to put that into practice at the european council on 26 september. one more thing, one more point: member states also use different criteria and different timing to inform consumers. this leads to a great deal of confusion among consumers and producers. i think we can do that much more efficiently and we are counting on you, commissioner, to propose and implement concrete measures in that area too, very soon.
the fipronil scandal is a case of manifest fraud. i think it is important to emphasize that in the first place. as in the horse meat fraud scandal of 2013, we are dealing with criminals who, for the sake of profit, are defrauding consumers at the expense of the sector itself. we need to get these fraudsters in their wallets. if you cheat on purpose, you're gonna have to pay for it. secondly, we must learn the lessons of this scandal. i am in favour of a sober debate, not a headless chicken. there's no benefit to anyone from pursuing a lawsuit against a food agency. at european level, the main challenge remains the rapid and effective communication between member states and despite the alert systems, it appears that important information was shared too slowly, too insufficiently. there is a different way to do it, and there is a different way to do it. to restore consumer confidence, we need to punish fraudsters, prevent fraud and deception and redirect the use of the eu alert system where necessary.
i would like to thank the estonian presidency and the commissioner for the introduction. one thing is clear: it's about fraud. criminals, unscrupulous criminals, have deliberately and unwittingly, screwed up the whole thing. they have endangered public health without any moral sense. that's the premise, and they've done it under cover names like chickfriend, poultry vision; the more concealing, the better. secondly: the case has been ongoing for much longer than 20 july, the date on which belgium referred the case to the rapid alert system. commissioner, you said there were traces as early as september 2016. in fact, there are invoices circulating that show that the belgian criminal behind the whole thing already bought fipronil in may 2016, 3 000 liters; later another 5 000 litres; then another 10,000 litres later on. and then we come to that early warning system, which i think is a powerful tool, a good tool, something that we've introduced after previous crises. but everything stands and falls, of course, when information is entered. if certain member states simply hesitate for too long or refuse to provide certain information, then yes, you are in the position of piet snot. if belgium already knows on 2 june that there is contamination in a plant 240 times the maximum residue limit, and in mid-june it already knows that there is a link to the netherlands, but still waits until 20 july to put the whole thing in place through the rapid alert system, then we have a problem. so, commissioner, i expect you to come forward on 26 september with proposals to amend the food regulation governing the whole rapid alert system. that regulation requires member states to act without delay. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are respected. that, i think, is the essence of the matter.
question for the council mrs schreijer-pierik, you said that the netherlands produces a lot of chicken manure and that they do not have enough capacity to incinerate it. they therefore rely on areas that may be more environmentally friendly and have less intensive livestock farming to spread their excess manure. do you not think that your country would be better off investing in sufficient incineration capacity, so that it can deal with the overproduction of chicken manure, rather than relying on neighbouring regions? this may be a matter of responsibility for your member state.
mr president, commissioner, i thank you for telling the facts as they happened. you were right to insist that the responsibility lies more with criminals who should be punished, because the recurrent crises, whether it be mad cow, dioxin, meat labelled 'beef' or horse, fipronil, are food crises that put a stigma on an entire sector that does not deserve it, whereas only a few criminals are cheating. but it is also the responsibility of the member states. it is true that the belgian authorities have dragged on a little: seven weeks between the time they became aware of the problem and the time they alerted the commission... what about the dutch authorities? they've known for seven months. since november 2016 commissioner, should we not ask the national authorities to communicate more quickly? not to change the system, but rather to hold them accountable and, why not, by applying sanctions, so as to encourage them to be more proactive in the future in similar cases of fraud.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. we all know for years and days that north korea has been provoking our international community. we know that they put nuclear weapons first and that they have now made huge leaps forward with their recent tests of an atomic bomb that could even reach across the border, that could even hit the americans. this is only exacerbating the conflict between north korea and the united states of america. of course, when you see the characters of those two leaders, with one of them doing this on twitter and the other doing that on social media, yes, you get a muscle-ball role that doesn't reassure us at all. every week i get questions from ordinary citizens, mrs mogherini, who are really worried, who ask whether there will be another nuclear war and whether we will have a third world war, who ask what we are going to do in europe to resolve the conflict between these two gentlemen that we hear so often, but other countries also play a role, of course. and it 's like you say: we welcome the resolution of the un security council. now, of course, everything depends on how far it will be implemented, how quickly it will be implemented. of course, this whole thing is in agreement with that. but we have seen you do it and i have told you that with iran: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we got iran. i hope that europe now has the courage, the determination, the patience to tackle this conflict as closely as it did. mrs mogherini, if we look back in time, everyone remembers the image of the naked girl running from an atomic bomb. i've been to the exhibitions there. we've seen what that can do. let us now do everything we can to prevent such a weapon from being fired again.
blue-card question. – thank you; i really wanted to put a question to ms mogherini, but she will hear the question and can answer later. it is the same question: i really agree with everything that has been said here – i think a lot of good things have been said – but there is one question i really want to put to ms mogherini and to you. we always talk about those who are vulnerable in migration, but a recent unicef report says that the most vulnerable are the children. we know that europol has stated that 10 000 migrant children have gone missing in europe. what will we do about that? will you support me to have a real action plan on this?
yes, a new political year, a new beginning. it is never too late to come to new insights, even for the commission, mr hahn. i have listened to you very carefully and you are making the right analysis of the bad relationship with turkey. but the only correct conclusion when it comes to turkey, you do not draw. turkey will not become a member of the european union, neither yesterday, today nor tomorrow. even mrs merkel no longer sees eu membership as a good thing for turkey and is convinced that we must move towards a different kind of relationship with that country. that could be a well-defined cooperation on trade, security and migration. there is support for that, but not for accession to the european union. are we going to explain to the european citizen that ankara is still passing the checkout counter to receive many millions of euros in pre-accession aid? no, mr. hahn, i'm not going to. the only correct conclusion is that we should end accession talks with turkey and pre-accession aid.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, personally i share many of your observations and judgements. i think we are all equally concerned about the downward trend in eu-turkey relations, and i fear that it will not be the last time we discuss this here in this house. clearly it is important to remain engaged, to keep channels open and to use these channels to stress that turkey must respect the values on which our union is based and to which is has signed up. so again, yes, as was said by mr faria, to a robust dialogue – but it is not a free lunch. ankara must now urgently take clear steps to improve the human rights situation and to fix contentious bilateral issues with eu member states in its own interest. i welcome the fact that our member states will debate this at the october summit. in any case, in spring 2018 at the very latest, the commission will have to pronounce on our relations with turkey in our traditional country report, and it does not take a lot of political fantasy to imagine what i will have to write as things stand.
in writing. the accession negotiations of turkey to the eu have been de facto frozen for a long time. turkey is distancing itself from european values. there is no question of accession any more. it is a pity that the ties are soured today, however, because everyone loses. i keep hoping this is temporary. the eu and turkey have a mutual interest in remaining good allies in the fight against terrorism, in nato and in addressing the conflict in syria and the refugee crisis.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i would like to say to jean-claude: what a difference to last year. i liked his speech on the state of the union. i think it was full of vision, ambition, for 2019, and quite a difference to last year, but let’s be honest between us, a lot has in fact changed in the meanwhile in the union since last year. in august 2016, for example, it was mr hofer who said that he wanted to take austria out of the euro and the union, and five months later, after his defeat, he said exactly the opposite. he changed his mind and he said no, no, we want to stay in the euro and in the union. and then in march of this year, in the netherlands, it was mr wilders who promised a spring of populism and in what he created, he reaped the opposite. it was the pro-european parties which won the election. and in france, exactly the same, it was emmanuel macron who won the campaign with a pro-european programme, and since then even the front national does not want to exit the euro and the union anymore. even in hungary viktor orbán is piping down. he accepts now the authority of the european court of justice and he said, two days ago i think, on a radio interview that there is no way that hungary would ever leave the union. so on the occasion of this state of the union address, i want to say to mr hofer, to ms le pen, to viktor orbán, welcome to the side of reason, even when we all know that it is not that they have changed their mind, it is not through conviction that they have changed their mind, but it is through fear of losing votes that they have changed their minds now. the only one for the moment who still does not get it is, i think, mr farage. he is still going on. last weekend he called on the german afd to campaign on brexit. i think it is fantastic advice to campaign on brexit. you have to keep up the good work, nigel. i hope they take your advice, but unfortunately i do not think they are as stupid as to do that in germany in the afd. because let’s be honest, it is clear what our citizens want: they do not want to destroy europe, they want to reform europe – but to destroy it, no bloody way. that is the message from our citizens. and that is what i liked so much in the state of the union address this year by jean-claude juncker. let’s not make the mistake of thinking, okay, the war is over, we have won a few elections in a number of countries and now the wind is blowing in the right direction. no, what the people want is not to continue with this europe. they want a reformed european union; 73% of our citizens want more european action on the side of migration; 75% want more european action against climate change. the same number want a european army and, at the same time, even more europeans want european capacities and capabilities in the fight against terrorism. so it is true, jean-claude, that the last three years were not easy, it was mainly crisis management, but i completely agree with you that now is the moment – now or never i should say, as in the song – to build up the european union that the people are asking for and that we together have already been dreaming of for a number of years. and what does this mean? it means that we create a european asylum system so that we can finally get rid of this broken dublin system, because that is the real origin of the problem. dublin is not european. it is national egoism: that is dublin. not dublin as a city naturally, sorry, please do not misunderstand me because otherwise i will have my irish friends against me if i continue like that! a european border and coastguard and a system of legal – indeed, gianni – migration so that people no longer die on our shores, because every dead body that we find in the mediterranean is a scandal for us, for europe; even one person dead in the mediterranean. a european defence union so that it is not the americans and the russians who decide, ms mogherini, in our backyard; which is still the case today. a european fbi – why? because terrorists do not recognise borders. that is the reality, so why do we continue to do so? and then a real government for the euro area so that we can steer the european economy and we can create what, in fact, we are missing – european champions. our competition rules are far too narrow. the fact that we have no unified markets with single regulators is why we have no european champions that can become world champions and compete at world level. but there is one thing on which i have a little difference in point of view with you, and it is the institutional problem. i always think that good institutions produce good policies and that bad institutions create a standstill, stagnation and crisis. and there are a number of examples of that. that is the reason why we in this parliament, and i thank you for your support because it is really very helpful, want also to create transnational lists and a real european constituency. and why do we want to do that? because it is time to lift democracy to a continental scale – europe is more than the sum of 27 national democracies; we are more than that, we are in fact a democracy on a european scale – and also to defend our values and our principles outside the union, but also inside the union. this european democracy is necessary, for example, to withstand alt-right governments such as we see today – also inside, in poland and in hungary – who think that trump with his white supremacy is the example, or that putin and orbán, who jail opponents, are the example. that will never be the example in whatever member state in the european union. and for that reason we have to create this european democracy with a transnational responsibility because, as emmanuel macron said, standing near the acropolis, we need to be the counterweight to all these developments and yes, to autocratic leaders worldwide – a beacon of openness, a beacon of freedom and a beacon of hope in the 21st century. (applause)
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr juncker, as i listened to you very carefully, i tried to put myself in the shoes of all our fellow citizens who can no longer stand it. who can no longer afford to pay the price for a financial crisis they did not cause and whose perpetrators continue to profit from; who can no longer bear to contribute more than their share to the financing of our public services and social protection, while the richest among us still largely escape taxation; they can no longer eat, drink or breathe poisons, on the grounds that banning these poisons would harm business; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. who are tired of having their individual freedoms curtailed and their personal data captured en masse in the name of fighting terrorism, or more prosaically to be flooded with advertisements; and finally, they can't stand to see the future of their children, their grandchildren, compromised by the mad race for the benefit of a few. often these citizens blame europe for the scourges they are suffering less and less, and yet we all know that the governments of the 28 member states bear an overwhelming responsibility in these policy choices. but too often the commission you chair is pushing the envelope in the same direction. of course, we can be glad that the le pen and wilders are still not the majority around them, but we would be wrong to rejoice too quickly, because the anger and resentment of many of our fellow citizens have not disappeared, and i would even say that national chauvinist ideas, mr juncker, are even progressing in your political family - look at austria. when you were sworn in, you told us that you were the chairman of the commission of the last chance and sometimes, from your actions, it might seem that this is the last chance to anchor the neoliberal agenda. however, i know you and i want to believe that you had something else in mind, namely to reconcile the european citizens with the very idea of european integration by putting this project at their service. to seize this last chance requires a change of direction and it is true that much of what we heard today is music to our ears. i am thinking in particular of your proposals on the euro area, and of course of the idea of transnational lists which the greens have been promoting for over a decade. i am not sure, however, that what you are proposing here is likely to cause the uproar we need and so let me suggest to you perhaps what you could have said today. my fellow citizens, many of you are rightly wondering if your democracy is working for you. i therefore commit myself to focusing all my commission's action on the twofold objective of reducing inequalities and reducing our ecological impact within the limits set by nature. our aim will be to ensure that everyone has the opportunity to live a life worth living. and how are we going to do that? i am committed to ensuring that here every action, every legislation, every recommendation from my commission is screened for its effect on inequalities and our ecological footprint and that only those are pursued which will reduce them. the commission will spare no effort to put an end to the fiscal and social competition between member states. cooperation and upward convergence will become the keywords of our action. we will undertake a complete reorientation of our trade policy, which will henceforth have to make access to our market subject to the respect of social, environmental and health standards which we have freely chosen. we will therefore propose to freeze the provisional application of ceta and to review the negotiating mandates for all other agreements under discussion. we will re-establish the precautionary principle as the basis of the internal market and, so that you have no doubt about our determination, we will abolish glyphosate. we'll take it off the market and we'll strengthen the definition of endocrine disruptors. but i am not only proposing a europe that protects, i am also proposing that europe be the instrument by which we build our common future, and for me the only chance for europeans to find their place in a global economy is to become the pioneers of energy, industrial, agricultural and other solutions that will enable humanity to live sustainably on this planet. so instead of being the defenders of the established economic order, my commission will now support all initiatives that commit us to this great transformation. and i am convinced that a europe which is reconciled with itself, a europe in which no one feels left behind, will be able to assume its responsibilities more fully than ever before towards those who knock at our door crying for help. the transition must also be to a more democratic society and - let's face it - our democracies are wounded. when governments drunk with power override the judiciary, parliaments, media and universities. they are threatened when executives allow themselves to put citizens under surveillance or house arrest without any judicial review. they are undermined when, for both security reasons and to control the social welfare recipients, governments collect and store data en masse, except of course for those of the owners of large fortunes. they are perverted when our law-making is subject to the increasingly unseen influence of the money powers. no, my dear friends, democracy is not an irreversible acquis. we must anchor the european union - and you said so, mr juncker - as the guarantor of freedoms, the rule of law and the general interest. my fellow citizens, collectively the european union is rich in outliers and, in fact, much richer than it was when the project was launched 60 years ago, much richer, believe me. we are capable of meeting the challenges we face, but i am telling you frankly: the only way to take back control of our future is together. i think that by implementing such an agenda, mr juncker, you would be seizing your last chance to go down in history, not as the former boss of a tax haven who joined the battalion of europe's gravediggers, but as one of those who got it going again.
president juncker, you made an optimistic speech. it was a little chilly, but that's how we know you. but it was an optimistic speech with elements which we in our group will support with great enthusiasm, such as making the mandate in trade agreements transparent, taking the lead on climate, protecting our industry and ensuring that there is more democracy. but we're still a little hungry. after three years of promises on the triple-a social policy, after three years of talk about social dumping, we have not yet achieved any results. when are we really going to make sure that our people get equal pay for equal work? when will we ensure that our social rights and access to social security are actually enshrined in european legislation? at the end of this mandate, that will determine the balance sheet we draw up and how we as social democrats look at this commission.
mr juncker, we are all talking about a more democratic europe, about winning back the hearts and minds of the citizens. as an mep, i try to keep my finger on the pulse close to home, because that is where our democracy begins. i therefore wholeheartedly agree with what my colleague terricabras from catalonia said earlier. hundreds of catalans colored the streets of barcelona last weekend. their peaceful optimism in deciding their own political future within the eu should please us all as democrats. you know that the political problem between barcelona and madrid is being dealt with in court today, that judges and politicians in madrid are ordering officials to boycott the referendum on 1 october. the media is intimidated, you know that. is this the europe we want? well, we flemish certainly don't. but we must fight for a europe which respects its citizens and their democratic aspirations.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i simply want to say to mr le hyaric that the most important thing is that we can choose our own leaders at european level. i therefore hope that the gue will support the common idea of transnational lists, which are the realisation of this dream of having our say in the appointment of those who lead europe. for the other points, i have only two conclusions. mr de graaff says that things are going badly for the european union; i think things are going badly for the populists and the nationalists in the european union. he is mistaken. the problems at the moment are in his movement, not with the european union. he is even saying that there is no increase, for example, in the number of jobs. well, everyone knows that there is an increase in the number of jobs in the european union. my second conclusion, mr timmermans, is that, hopefully, you have seen here in the centre of this house a broad support for the ambitious programme that mr juncker has presented. you have to take that on board and use it as a tool with our member states and with the council, so that from their side there will be the same support for that ambitious programme.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i get a free minute, it's sales day today, i didn't even know about it, thank you mr president, you are too kind! i just want to say that i see that there is only mr timmermans left and in the end it may not be worse because mr timmermans, i hear all the language of your boss, i hear all that he wants to do, i hear him talking to me about a europe where there will be no second-class citizens. that is what he says, but today, some of our citizens have to continue to swallow products that you refuse to ban in the name of "better regulation". today there are towers that are burning, as in the united kingdom, because we do not want to ban products that catch fire too easily and we do not want to make european standards for these products that are fire resistant, because we will be satisfied with national standards. so i would simply ask the commission to join the gesture of all your legislative proposals to the word of your boss.
mr president, first of all i have to say that i am a little astonished to hear from my good ppe colleague that it is actually climate policy that is responsible for the cheating of the cars in europe. unfortunately, that is not the case. but let me turn to the speech by the commission, and i hope it is not due to the replacement of ms bieńkowska by mr katainen that today the commission is so weak and not serious enough about the reaction that it should give to what is happening. i am sorry to say this; we have had good cooperation with ms bieńkowska in the past and i hope that can continue and that we can be very firm because, let us be honest and look at what happened, for instance, with the volkswagen recall programme. the commission expected it to be completed by autumn 2017; well, that is today. three million cars have not been recalled yet! and it is not only that, it is also the other cars that have been cheating and the differences in the different member states, such as: some of them are mandatory, others are voluntary, some are only for the national car market and others are different. how will the commission make sure that all consumers in europe have the same rights? how will you do that? i have not seen an answer. nor is it about the past alone. we also have to look to the future and yes, we have to care about our car industry but a new era is coming. it will be electrified, it will be sharing mobility, and if we do not make sure that we do that for our industry, if we do not make sure that we have a zero emissions mandate, then cars will be imported from china and elsewhere in the world and our car industry will have big problems, as will these millions of people. let me finish by quoting a former commissioner, a liberal commissioner, who was very good, mr potočnik, in our committee on emissions measurements in the automotive sector. he said that we must stop killing industry with kindness by giving into the calls for less ambition, a longer time to achieve it, and allowing loopholes. let us make sure that we have a future for our car industry and that it is sustainable.
it's been two years since dieselgate came to light. a few months ago, we adopted the recommendations and conclusions of our committee of inquiry by a large majority, and our message was clear: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the community is not worsened. irresponsible member states and a negligent european commission have set public health aside. this is particularly the case for vulnerable road users and children. there are already some positive signs, such as the new improved emissions tests and the low emission zones in some cities. but are we there yet? no, we're not there yet. the reports over the summer of price agreements allegedly reached by various car manufacturers have again shaken consumer confidence. i hope that the commission and the council presidency will be able to indicate clearly how they intend to keep the pressure on the boiler to work together with all the actors to eliminate these structural errors. the protection of human health and the environment is a shared responsibility.
we all agree that dieselgate was a historic low point for the european car industry. it will take a long time and a lot of patience before the confidence of european consumers in the car industry is restored. fortunately, despite all the negative news of the past few weeks, there are also a few positive elements that we should perhaps dare to mention. the real driving emissions test, a much more robust and stringent emission test, has been in force for new models since 1 september, and that is of course positive. in addition, a number of car models demonstrate that it is indeed possible to market diesel cars with nox emissions well below the european standard of 80 mg/km. so it is possible, so let's keep the pressure on. the work is not finished, of course. the national authorities responsible must also cooperate and adapt their tax systems to these new tests, so that the cleanest cars on the road are also given tax incentives and the lists are adjusted. let us also try to streamline a little more all the different arrangements around the low emission zones in all those cities in europe - which are of course good. you, commissioner, can of course play a part in that. today we are faced with a jungle, a jumble of 200 different vignettes and emission standards. it is our task to bring them into closer harmony in the interests of all consumer motorists.
the images of grenfell tower are etched in the collective memory. unfortunately, the human suffering caused by fire is a daily reality in the european union. every year, some 70 000 europeans are admitted to hospital with burns and there are 5 000 incidents a day. we cannot solve all the problems from within the european union, but we can make sure that we tackle them within our sphere of competence. i would like to propose two things which have already been mentioned here. first, we need to improve testing procedures. the construction materials must be tested in realistic conditions and we must also focus more on toxicity testing, because it is often the toxic substances released during combustion that pose an additional threat to human health. secondly - and i am glad the commission is announcing this - there must be a platform where member states can exchange best practice.
on behalf of the group of the european right it 's now or never . it is vital that we send a clear signal from europe. people with disabilities must be able to participate in everyday life without difficulty. i therefore call on those who share this view to vote for the løkkegaard report tomorrow. a well-defined, forward-looking list of products and services should put an end to products and services that are not accessible. i think of e-books, televisions, telephones and so much more. the new rules also allow sufficient flexibility for manufacturers and producers. they will be able to choose how they want to make their products more accessible. and that approach goes hand in hand with innovation. my colleagues, let us not risk creating unrealistic expectations that we cannot meet. we are not going to get results and we are going to disappoint a lot of people. we can make important progress here. let's do that then.
there are some 80 million disabled people in europe and some 150 million elderly people. any legislation that improves the accessibility of products and services is a step forward that benefits millions of people in europe. i therefore welcome the løkkegaard report, although i think it should have been a little more. i like to break a lance for more ambition. for example, inspiration for this can be found in the united states. there, the americans with disabilities act created a real cultural shift. not only the government but also private companies of all kinds see accessibility as an opportunity rather than an obligation. i think, for example, of apple, which launched its latest iphone yesterday. apple understands that responding to the needs of people with disabilities can be a competitive advantage in a hyper-competitive market. and there are many more examples of this. i hope that tomorrow's vote will be a meaningful step forward, a step towards a world in which people with disabilities and the elderly can participate in everyday life without facing barriers that impede participation.
the european commission - as we heard from mr juncker this morning - has decided to accelerate the capital markets union. it is obvious that among the many threats listed by the commission, brexit is also mentioned. with 750 000 employees in the financial sector and a gross value added of £81 000 billion, the city of london is one of the main players in this capital markets union. we believe that this threat, as they call it, or at least a challenge, must be adequately addressed before the eu's over-ambitious plans are pushed through in a high-speed train. that is the main problem with this report. we also believe that it is not esma but the member states that should take the lead in developing the existing social and venture funds. the further unification of monetary and economic life runs counter to the very nature and essence of what the european continent is: unity and strength in and through diversity.
"it's a feast in ostdunkerke, and it's a feast in hell". carnival in hell: that's what the fishermen say when the weather is bad. and when i see what is on the table in this european parliament, i am not entirely satisfied. i live by the sea on the flemish coast. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. they are in a difficult situation, also because of the decisions being taken here in europe and also because of the forthcoming brexit. at the same time, just as farmers love their land and their animals, so fishermen love the sea and the fish. they are also well aware that they must cherish it and that they will have to make the switch to a more sustainable fishery. but it can be done without too complex a plan. let's do it that way. let us work out a fair, flexible and simple system and let us also give the recreational fishermen their fish.
in writing. in the european union, 66 million people aged 25 to 64 have not completed the first cycle of secondary education. these shocking figures reveal the fact that many people are in difficult situations, especially financial ones. some of them live in a form of social exclusion on a daily basis. these are the people who are the priority target of the new skills strategy for europe. every journey, every experience is worthwhile! the achievements of all other forms of learning (formal, but also non-formal and informal) must be recognised and the value of lifelong learning must also be recognised. the european union must build bridges between people and between different policies. only a comprehensive approach, combining education, training, employment, youth, health and social empowerment, will benefit all europeans.
author. tensions are rising sharply after last year's elections and the fairness and outcome of those elections may indeed be called into question. the opposition is silenced, there is a travel ban, there is repression, killings, arrests. the country is really in a political conflict. social and political tensions are rising very fast. we must send a clear signal from the union. we want to see cotonou respected. we want peace to return. so we must appeal to the government to allow peaceful opposition. but that also means that we will ask the opposition to conduct peaceful opposition and also to stop their acts of violence. any country within the european union which has good relations with gabon and can exert its influence should do so. only by being strong together as a union, as president juncker said yesterday, can we make a difference in the field of foreign policy.
author. mr president, madam high representative, last april, three young laotians whose names ms lochbihler has just mentioned were sentenced to staggering sentences for posting negative comments against the government on social media. 20, 16 and 12, those are the numbers we're going to remember today. so many years in prison for merely expressing their opinion of the government of their country. the three young men were even forced to admit to endangering the national security of their country during their closed-door trial, according to the amnesty international report. once again, laos is showing a lack of respect for the fundamental rights of human beings. how can we accept that a country applies such sentences just for words that do not please the government? it is high time that laos granted un special agencies, as well as representatives of humanitarian organisations, full access to its territory by allowing them to have contact with political prisoners and religious minorities. laos needs to become more democratic, it may take time but it is essential that this happens, alongside the economic development of this country.
- a writer. without democracy there are no human rights and without human rights there is no democracy. this is very clear in laos today. freedom of expression, freedom of association, freedom of assembly: they're not real. that is convenient for the lao people's revolutionary party, which is holding the country in a stranglehold. no other parties are allowed. the lao people's democratic republic does not tolerate criticism, removes opponents, oppresses religious minorities and uses the weapon of media and internet censorship. and in a very special way, we call attention to the fate of three brave people: mrs thammavong and mr phimmasone and mr chaithad. they have been sentenced to long prison terms and heavy fines for addressing and wanting to address the problems in the country and for dreaming of a better future for the next generations. critical voices have no place in prison. we therefore call on the laotian government to release them immediately and unconditionally and to comply with its obligations under international human rights conventions.
author. mr president, 48 years in prison for the three of them. almost half a century. this is the stunning sentence that was handed down last march against three young laotians who were found guilty of posting negative comments on facebook against the regime, one of the most repressive in the region. in fact, very harmless negative comments to us western democrats. they denounced the human rights situation in the country, as well as deforestation and excessive corruption. trial in camera, so no defense, ruthless verdict. it is the human rights situation in laos, a country which is never discussed in this house, which is never discussed at all, that we are denouncing here. in fact, it is a very discreet dictatorship that this unjust trial has just brought into the spotlight. madam high representative, our question is both simple and very complicated: what are we doing? what are our actual means of pressure and are we willing to use them?
the reports are sickening. thousands of rohingya are killed every day, driven from their homes, children are being crushed. there's an ethnic cleansing, a genocide going on. this is happening in 2017! i regret that some colleagues even dare to dispute that. the rohingya are trapped like rats. international organizations cannot get to them, and even if they want to flee, they cannot get away. this is being looked at by someone who has won the nobel peace prize, someone who has won the sakharov prize. we have to ask ourselves what we expect from that person and whether we can take those titles away. but more importantly, of course, is that there be action, that the people be protected. we cannot do this as europe alone, but we can use our influence in the world to exert pressure and work together to ensure that the persecution of the rohingya finally stops.
mr president, commissioner, more and more often we are seeing a decrease in rainfall in spring, which means more drought in the heaths and in the woods. when you add a heat wave, fairly high temperatures like we have experienced this summer and strong winds, you obviously have fires that break out, especially around the mediterranean. in addition, the simultaneous fires are an additional difficulty in fighting fires. i have often heard of the solidarity fund, and i am right. but in today's conditions, even fire-fighting equipment in well-kept forests cannot prevent fires from spreading when there are very strong winds, tens of meters, even hundreds of meters. besides the solidarity fund, which intervenes when it is too late, when it is necessary to compensate the victims, could we not think of a mixed private/public fund which could, for example, integrate town halls, insurance companies and also a series of actors to have a prevention fund which could better equip the most sensitive areas, for example with reserve firefighters - even though i know that this is very expensive - which could reinforce the already existing teams on the ground to better fight fires, especially when there is a simultaneous declaration of fires.
mr president, i disagree with the proposal because it is the role of parliament to steer the whole process, as we have to approve the outcome of the negotiations at the end. in order to be able to do that after the negotiations, we need to act in advance, and that is what we are doing – especially because, in this resolution, we put all the emphasis on citizens’ rights. it is the role of parliament to defend the rights of citizens, not only our european citizens but also the uk citizens living on the continent. now is the right moment – just before the next negotiation round and before the european council takes a position.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the question of endocrine disruptors is one of those issues that haunts many of our citizens, who fear that europe could allow the marketing of poisons that pollute what they eat, what they drink and what they breathe. it seems to me therefore absolutely appropriate that, after the very clear vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, we should have a debate on this in this house. we know how much 'science' is used in a more than questionable way to justify decisions whose primary purpose is to promote the interests of the companies that market these products. so i suggest we discuss it here before the vote.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to support the proposal and emphasise that i fully agree with what mrs ska keller said, except for her conclusion. it has indeed demonstrated the need for a much wider debate. this is why the title we are proposing includes fundamental rights. fundamental rights are also what will be discussed, and i think it is best to have a title that is as broad as possible, rather than being confined to a single point.
in writing. today, within the european union, there is still a 12% gap between the employment rates of men and women. the reasons for this inequality are many and varied, but they require comprehensive and ambitious measures. this is not only a disgrace to modern democracies like ours which stand for the principle of equality, but it is also an economic aberration! indeed, according to the oecd, "the promotion of gender equality and women's empowerment could lead to considerable economic gains in oecd and g20 countries". improving the situation of almost three quarters of women by 2025 could correspond to an increase in global gdp equivalent to that of the euro area, or €12 trillion. measures such as equal pay for equal work, gender balance in the private and public sectors and the promotion of gender equality are all in the right direction, but they are only the beginning! it is high time that our countries, our leaders, take responsibility and effectively fight gender inequality!
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all, i have to say – and i am addressing my words to mr fitto also – that i deplore the fact that we have come to a resolution saying there is no sufficient progress. our idea – and i think michel barnier’s also – was that by october we would see sufficient progress. but mr weber is right in his analysis of the situation on the other side of the negotiating table: there is a lack of clarity; there is even disunity. there is opposition between hammond and fox, and opposition and divisions between johnson and may. it is difficult to make sufficient progress and it is difficult to take the steps towards the second phase of the negotiations. so i deplore the fact that we cannot put before the plenary a resolution other than today’s resolution. on the other hand, it does demonstrate the unity among ourselves – and i hope, mr fitto, that we can keep that unity in this house, and even that you can join it when we vote in a few moments’ time, because that unity is absolutely needed. parliament and council – not parliament only, but parliament and council – for once, and i have never seen it before, i have to tell you, in my political life, are going beyond national differences and considerations of party obedience, and are really defending, together with the negotiator, the interests of the citizens in all 27 member states. so my call to you, and to everybody in the plenary, is to join this unity: let us keep this unity. i have three worries – three points that i think need to be addressed in the debate. the first is northern ireland. i have to tell you that i went to northern ireland. i had never been in northern ireland before, i had never been in belfast before, but i went there. i had thought: ‘yeah, it’s been 20 years now since this has been on our television screens and the problems are solved. it’s a bit like berlin: the berlin wall has disappeared, and everything is going well.’ so i can tell you it was a shock to come to belfast, because the reality is that the problems are not over. there is peace, due to the good friday agreement, but there are still these tensions. there are fences that are 12 metres high – today in the 21st century! i have to tell you that keeping this good friday agreement is key. it is a ceasefire. it is a little bit of a guarantee in a frozen conflict. the worst thing what can happen is that we lose the peace that europe has brought there, to northern ireland, with the efforts that we in the european union have made. i stood next to memorials where you see pictures of young people aged 15 or 16 who died in a conflict based on nationalism, based on extremism. so, to ensure that the violence does not return is, i think, an absolute priority for this house. (applause)and that means – and this is a question i would put to the negotiator – why not attach the good friday agreement as a declaration to the withdrawal agreement that we are going to secure? and, of course, let us not return to a border there on the island of ireland because then the violence will certainly return. my second worry is about citizens’ rights. you will be aware of the so—called deportation letters that were sent out by the uk authorities a short time ago. there have been excuses by the uk government, saying that it was a mistake, but i have difficulty believing that. why do i say that? well, when it comes to collectively securing the rights of eu citizens living in the uk, the uk authorities tell us it is not possible: they don’t know them and they don’t know where they are. yet, when it comes to sending a deportation letter, they find their addresses! so i want to say – in all honesty and very calmly – that i do not think we can accept a situation in which three million of our citizens would need to ask for settled status in britain, with the huge administrative burden that would entail. our proposal is very simple: let us recognise this collectively; let us give eu citizens living in the uk the same rights that they have now. and let’s do exactly the same for the uk citizens living on the continent. (applause from certain quarters ) i am asking myself why we are still discussing this. this can, in fact, be solved immediately by recognising their rights – recognising the rights of all citizens. lastly, on the financial settlement, i will not repeat what has already been said. we are fully in agreement that you cannot pay with 27 what has been committed by 28. to conclude, it is true, mr fitto, that ms may made a number of clarifications in her florence speech, but not enough – let us be honest – for even you to say that there is sufficient progress. so what i hope is that, in her address tomorrow to the conservative party conference, she will bring further clarity so that, on that basis, concrete proposals can be put on the negotiation table before michel barnier. finally, i hope that the ecr group too will show massive support for this resolution in the vote at midday. (applause)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear british citizens, my fellow european citizens, the clock is ticking. you know where we greens, and the european free alliance, wanted your country to be: to remain at the heart of the european union. but the majority of those british citizens who voted decided otherwise. while we accept the result of the referendum, this decision will produce no winners. not only the business we do with one another but also the interests of both uk citizens and citizens of the eu 27 will be harmed by the separation. british citizens come to see me every week, to alert me to the damage that will be inflicted on your healthcare system or on the quality of research in your top universities, where so many eu nationals are working day in, day out. above all, both british citizens in the eu 27 and uk citizens on the continent have been thrown into total disarray, and europeans in the uk have started experiencing administrative vexations before brexit has even started. if we want to limit the inevitable damage that will be caused by this lose-lose situation we should waste no more time, and negotiate in good faith. but make no mistake about it, no deal by march 2019 would be the worst deal for everyone and, firstly, for our respective citizens. allow me at this stage to point to two contradictions in the position of your own prime minister. the first concerns ireland. how can she say, on the one hand, that there will be no border and, on the other hand, that she will take the united kingdom out of the customs union, the single market and the jurisdiction of the european court of justice? this will create a border, and i do not know where to place it while at the same time respecting the good friday peace agreement. the second contradiction is this idea that in order for britain to become global it needs to cut its ties with its closest neighbours, with whom it shares history and geography. i believe that, rather than being an impediment to britain being global, the european union is the only way for it as a european country, and one of a number of former imperial powers, to have any influence in a world where it represents barely one percent of the population. in the 21st century, more than ever, size matters. let me conclude with a few words on democracy. as your prime minister explained, the decision to leave the european union is a statement as to how you want your democracy to work. i take exception to the idea that only if the uk leaves the eu would decisions that affect your daily lives be taken by people directly accountable to you. who adopts eu law? on the one hand, this european parliament was elected by, and is accountable to, the very same people who elect your national parliaments. on the other hand, the council is 28 governments who are accountable to their citizens via their national parliaments. in other words, every eu law is decided by people who are directly accountable to you sitting at the table and taking part. but let’s be frank with one another: what seems unacceptable to some is that, in certain cases, britain might be outvoted. that, i am afraid, is a rule of democracy, and one that your own government has no qualms about invoking by remarkably overruling the pro-remain majorities in scotland and northern ireland. if democracy can be had only at the level of the nation state, i know many regions which would immediately aspire to become one. (heckling) indeed! and if a democratic union is possible, mr farage, between england, scotland, wales and northern ireland, then it can certainly be possible between european nation states. a majority of the british voters instructed her majesty’s government to negotiate brexit. let us respect the democratic vote and do just that, without further delay. but if we want to be fair to those same citizens, let them, or at least those people who have been elected to represent them, have the last word on this story. when confronted with the result of that negotiation, who knows what they might ultimately decide?
i would like to warn our british friends of what is happening. they must not underestimate the adversary they face. that is a european elite that is out for revenge, for retaliation, for a kind of punitive expedition; at least a strategy that buys time and allows the remain strategy to gain momentum. that is what is happening and that is why this whole procedure is being slowly but surely turned into a kind of chaos at the moment. the parliamentary procedure which, in my view, should have nothing to do with this - because it should simply be a transaction between two executive levels - is part of that. i've known verhofstadt for 35 years. he's the man to make a mess of the brexit process, with all sorts of sidelines like threatening the citizens, talking about money and talking about northern ireland. don't let that happen. make sure you have a good plan b. i say to our british friends: a good plan b for the independence of your country.
i think it's very important that we move forward with the brexit negotiations. ambiguity creates uncertainty, and that's not good for anyone: i am not saying that the commission should be unable to do so. it is indeed important to have clarity about the rights of eu citizens in the united kingdom, about the financial obligations of the united kingdom, about the border between northern ireland and the republic of ireland. but it's much more important to have a good brexit deal at the end of the ride. i therefore warmly urge you not to keep the two phases artificially separated at all times. at the end of the ride, there will be one deal on the table, and it won't be two-part.
madam president, citizens' rights and the irish question are among the two main concerns. it is surprising to note here the weakness of the british government, which seems neither to know what it wants nor to accept the result of a referendum which it wanted. it is the weakness of a government that is divided, in which boris johnson, an irresponsible spoiled brat, continues to wreak havoc. the attitude of mr farage just now, who spoke of spain to avoid debate, is beyond description. his electoral success, he can't handle it, because he plunged his people into confusion and ignorance. the british people deserve better. as for you, mr barnier, mr chief negotiator, i commend you for preserving the unity of the european union and for putting the interests of the citizens first, which should be the main concern of any political leader. keep going, because you are truly, as they say in london, the right man in the right place.
mr president, commissioner, a great deal has been said, so i shall confine my remarks to the difference in legal treatment, to take a few examples. in 2016, a bavarian court approved the marriage of a 21-year-old syrian man to his 14-year-old cousin. the court found that the marriage was valid because it had been concluded in accordance with syrian law. at the end of 2015, the netherlands, on the same principle, recognised child marriages when they had been registered in the country of origin. in germany too, the federal government introduced a bill in the council of ministers a few months ago which prohibits marriage by minors, raising the minimum legal age from 16 to 18. in france, both spouses must be 18 years of age, but marriage to a minor may be permitted for serious reasons, such as pregnancy. the important thing is to try to move towards harmonisation. by voting for this resolution, we will try to apply uniform legal standards throughout europe in relation to child marriage and, if possible, its prohibition, as the un special rapporteur on the subject has pointed out.
750 million girls worldwide, child marriage. 15 million girls every year. that number is terrible. it is happening in developing countries and, ladies and gentlemen, i have visited them. pregnancy in a delivery room, babies dying, young girls suffering from fistulas and subsequent rejection. i saw them being carried away, too. child brides, pregnant, dying in their birthbed. that is what is still happening today and that is what we have to focus on in the developing countries. as my colleague mr goerens said: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. but we must also dare to look into our own hearts. we must also look at what is happening here in europe, as mr tarabella said. where do we recognize these child marriages? how can we protect children here from being married off? let's go together for zero tolerance.
in writing. – to avoid acceleration of further uncontrollable climate disruption, we must stay strongly committed to the full implementation of the paris agreement. we must be clear that this agreement is irreversible and will not be renegotiated. this clarity and certainty to all actors is crucial to build trust and help solidify confidence in the global commitment to climate action. in that sense i deplore the opening commissioner cañete made to the trump administration to ‘chart its own path’ within the treaty and to come back on the terms under which they agreed to participate previously. such a back step is dangerous and could open a pandora’s box, since other parties to the paris agreement might start to consider weaker contributions as well. this is contrary to the paris agreement itself that states in art.4.3 that ‘each party’s successive ndc will represent a progression beyond the party’s then current ndc and reflect its highest possible ambition, reflecting its common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities’. current ndcs will still lead to a global warming of 3°c. parties should do more, not less. the eu also has to raise its ambitions. the facilitative dialogue in 2018 is an excellent opportunity to do so.
i very much regret that we are only now debating this problem. more than a year ago i asked the commission a question about customer complaints against ryanair and about non-compliance with consumer rules. then i received a reply from your services that nothing was wrong. on 4 july this year i asked you again to take action against airlines which make it almost impossible to lodge complaints. again the answer came that you would look into the case. now that thousands of consumers have been affected, i hope you will finally take action. in the wake of the ryanair case, you have already said in the press that airlines must respect european rules, because they already exist. it is first of all up to the member states to enforce these rules and it is up to the commission to draw the attention of the member states to them. i would therefore urge you to put this to work and to remind the member states - and therefore also the companies - of their responsibility.
it has been said many times here, but the way in which ryanair has dealt with passenger rights, which has been brazenly trampled underfoot, is truly unprecedented. and that the company has only decided, after long hesitation and after much pressure from the media and the political establishment, to offer its customers compensation is really cruel and unacceptable. it's been said a hundred times here: the european rules provide that passengers are naturally entitled to compensation if they are not informed in time of the cancellation of the flight. the belgian minister for consumer affairs has already launched an investigation into ryanair for unfair commercial practices, and i think the european commission cannot help but follow suit. you and your colleague have indeed sent a letter to ryanair, but we are convinced that more urgent action is needed here and that ryanair should be called to order. finally, another point which has already been raised here but which we might wish to give some additional attention to. we must also work to improve the functioning and accessibility of the national mediation bodies so that they are more accessible, faster accessible, easier to access for passengers who have been harmed; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that all consumers, all passengers, are entitled to what they are entitled to under european rules, in a simple and accessible way.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i want to speak directly to the head of ryanair. mr o'leary, imagine that you have booked a flight, say with ryanair, and have booked a nice hotel in tallinn, paris or london, or have a very important business appointment, and suddenly you are told, the day before the trip or on the day itself, that this flight will not take place because it has been cancelled. i believe, mr. o'leary, you would swear like captain haddock. and so did all those who had to learn about it. we are talking about 400 000 people, and there are 300 000 more. in my small constituency, many citizens have called me in anger to protest against this, and i have been asked: 'what is europe doing about this, or what can i do as a citizen or as a person affected?' the answer is the 2004 regulation. this is a regulation defining the rights of citizens. these rights are good, the passengers must demand these rights. it is important to say that the short-term nature of the cancellation was and is an insolence, and that cannot be the case. the cost of these cancelled flights has to be paid by ryanair, and you, mrs bulc, have to look at mr o'leary's fingers. while the freedom above the clouds may be limitless, the audacity of such planning must be limited. and that's what you're dealing with, mrs. bulc. look at his fingers, and i can only advise any customer to exercise those rights. the customer is sitting on the longest lever. if everyone exercises these rights, we can prevent such things from happening again in the future.
mr president, commissioner, it is clear that the development of low-cost airlines has opened up air transport to millions of europeans and, as a result, has generated thousands of jobs through the development of certain airports and their region. in my region, charleroi, the airport is one of the greatest economic successes of belgium in recent years, and this has been demonstrated to a great extent. but the present situation requires us to reaffirm the protective principles defined by europe, which must necessarily accompany this development. firstly, the rights of passengers must be fully protected. the rules are clear: any airline that cancels a flight must inform each passenger of his or her rights, including the right to compensation under certain conditions. therefore, commissioner, i think you should take the initiative to facilitate this compensation procedure and control the process. the clear example of ryanair shows that this does not work. secondly, the social rights of the crew must be fully respected. this is particularly the case with the recent judgment of the european court of justice on the national jurisdiction in matters of labour law. again, the device must be secured. we are of course counting on you, commissioner, to change both of these elements.
mr president, this question of the definition of endocrine disruptors is essential. who reported in 2013: 800 chemicals alter the human hormonal system. these are 800 substances that are responsible for or suspected of increasing a whole range of diseases: certain cancers, diabetes, obesity, infertility, as well as various disorders related to brain development. this means that the public health issue is a major one, but member states are divided on the issue of identifying these criteria. the compromise reached at the beginning of the summer is the best proof of this, with its plethora of exceptions. in going beyond its powers, and bas has explained it perfectly, the commission has excluded from its definition of pesticides those which are specifically designed to target the hormonal systems of insects and plants with considerable damage to those around them which are not targeted. the endocrine society, which brings together 18,000 researchers and clinicians worldwide, is expressing its deep concern. citizens in europe are mobilized. we are therefore calling for a new definition of endocrine disruptors tomorrow, a definition which will actually protect public health and the environment.
in writing. endocrine disruptors, substances which disrupt the body and cause adverse effects, cannot be authorised under any circumstances. unfortunately, under pressure from some member states, the european commission has, in the text which is to be submitted to us, gone far beyond its mandate by adding a derogation authorising pesticides. the reason: the purpose of these products is precisely to prevent pests from reproducing. but what about human beings? so after the glyphosate saga, now comes the endocrine disruptor saga? no, i'm not going. in both cases, the precautionary principle must continue to prevail! that will be the meaning of my vote, as it has always been. let's just drop the design-disruption clause. let us ask for the withdrawal of the implementing regulation and for a new proposal to be tabled without delay. once the text is adopted, i hope, the european commission will have to withdraw its draft and revise its copy in negotiations with the member states. and we will prove in passing that, no, "brussels" does not decide everything.
the 1998 directive was the first european law on passenger ship safety in the eu. the aim is not only to ensure that the safety of passengers on board passenger ships is not endangered by exceeding the maximum number of passengers allowed, but the directive also requires that search and rescue operations after an accident should be efficient. this directive is now being updated. i followed up this matter in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and tabled a number of amendments. i am glad that many of my proposals have been incorporated in the final version adopted by the committee on transport. the obligation to communicate the nationality of a seafarer to the master of the vessel was introduced alongside data protection principles. this will help to provide reliable information to relatives more quickly in the event of an accident. therefore, the identification procedures were simplified. identification always takes time, and so the sooner the better for anxious relatives.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i hope for two things for this european council. the first has been already echoed by other colleagues, namely that there can be a breakthrough in the migration package. in fact, if there is one role the european council can play, it is on that because they have to give political direction. so a conclusion by the european council, where they push forward the package as it has been introduced by the commission is what we need now, because we can continue to complain about dublin, which is not a european system of asylum, we can continue to complain about the lack of legal migration ways in europe, and we can continue to complain about the bad management of our outside borders, but the proposals are there. we need a european council which in fact now steers the ministers of the interior responsible in that direction. so that is my first wish. my second wish for this european council is to further take up the work on the reform of the european union. my fear is that – you know how it is – there are elections in france, elections in the netherlands, elections in germany and then it is like– i cannot say a pudding, because that is a british word i think – a soufflé, that is maybe a french word, and then suddenly we go back to business as usual. business as usual for the last 18 months before the european elections. that cannot be the case. i think that president juncker made an enormous effort on this reform of the european union with his state of the union speech, i think that president macron made an enormous effort with his important intervention on the future of the european union, and we hope to see other leaders express themselves on this. i do not even see big differences. the whole discussion about the difference between the macron speech and the juncker speech is that one is saying we are going to do it in one circle and the other is saying that we are going to do it in two circles. but on the content, we agree and not only do they agree, but also this house because let me recall that, at the beginning of this year, we adopted three important reports on the future of the european union which were completely in line with president juncker’s state of the union speech and which were completely in line with the proposals of the french president. (applause from alde and vert groups ) so it is the moment – and that is my message to the council – to pick this up and not to lose the momentum because it is true what manfred weber said. it is not the end of nationalism. it is not the end of populism. it will be the end of nationalism and populism if we are capable of reforming the european union, changing the european union and breaking the deadlock that exists. in that sense, i think there are doubts – the liberals in germany, will there be an obstacle, yes or no? – but i can tell you one thing. i know the fdp. it is a genuine pro-european party still anchored in the legacy of hans—dietrich genscher, in favour of a european defence union, in favour of european transnationalism, and in favour of european capacities in investigation and intelligence. if there is a difference in the point of view on the eurozone, we know that there are rules to be applied in the eurozone and we want a new governance of the eurozone. well, the one is not in contradiction with the other. you need both of them. you need a new governance to have a sustainable eurozone and to apply these rules. so my last wish – and this is not for the council president but more for us – is what is the role we are going to play in this? it is this house that has to take the lead on this reform and this debate on the european union. so my plea to you – and i know that you are in favour – and also to the plenary is let’s organise here, every session, this debate on the future of the european union. secondly, let’s ask, through our committee on constitutional affairs, to have regular meetings with the national parliaments because we are not going to reform the european union without the help of these national democracies and these national parliaments. finally, let’s put the three institutions together – the commission, the council, the parliament – in such an endeavour. (applause from the alde group)
, on behalf of the green/efa group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last summer, on a hill in southern burgundy, i met some 20 young hungarians who told me of their dismay at a society, a europe, which is becoming increasingly polarized, cut in two by seemingly impassable fault lines, which divide even the very heart of families. i think they were right, because little by little our union seems to be being conquered by this cancer of the mind, which would like to reduce our societies to an opposition between 'them' and 'us', like a landscape without nuances, frozen, in black and white, the realm of real and virtual walls which, when they are not made of concrete or barbed wire, are erected by words or actions. in such a world, we are constantly being asked to choose our side. there are many examples. remember the euro crisis, which divided europe into creditor states, by definition virtuous in everything, and debtor countries, necessarily guilty of everything. on the question of posted workers, there would be the nasty member states who profit, and the nice member states who are victims of social dumping. after the terrorist attacks, i remember a french prime minister saying that to explain was already a bit of an excuse, or here, that to refuse the widespread surveillance of our society would be to become an accomplice to the killers. finally, any call for europe to take up its responsibilities to do more and better in welcoming migrants is immediately denounced as an intolerable appeal or a threat to our identity. ladies and gentlemen, what happened last sunday in barcelona is the result of this binary logic, which means that you have to choose your side. faced with the clear dissatisfaction of a majority of catalonian citizens with the status of their region, the madrid government has chosen denial. over the years, this obstinate refusal to engage in dialogue has led to unilateral but peaceful actions, none of which, absolutely none, can justify the violent repression we have seen. and let's not get it wrong, because you're gonna ask me what the connection is to the council? do not be mistaken! what is happening in catalonia at the moment is not just a spanish matter, it affects the european union at its foundations, because what is the european union if not a conscious and determined decision to resolve our conflicts and disputes through dialogue, negotiation and compromise rather than through violence. is not our motto "unity in diversity", a diversity that we choose to see as an asset, rather than a handicap? all this is now being called into question in the spanish constitutional and political crisis. that is why, mr juncker or mr timmermans, that is why, mr tusk, you cannot remain spectators. who can understand the commission's silence and inaction? who could understand, mr maasikas, that the european council will meet next week ignoring a crisis which, far more than brexit, can damage the very spirit of european integration? if this is an internal matter, mr timmermans, it is an internal matter of the european union. if there is a need to intervene to help restart the dialogue between spain and catalonia, it is up to the european union to do so. and there is an emergency. we should not wait for further unilateral steps, which would make a negotiated solution even more difficult. ladies and gentlemen, the credibility of the european union and its project is at stake here.
i had prepared for the many digital challenges facing europe, but today i cannot help but strongly condemn the european union's long silence on the violence we all witnessed on sunday. violence can never be the solution to a political conflict, never. i therefore call for a dialogue between madrid and barcelona with international mediation. commissioner timmermans, you have human rights in your portfolio. you cannot but condemn a member state which uses violence and shoots at its own citizens.
as regards the measures to control illegal migration flows, i would remind the heads of government that the deployment of, for example, belgian naval vessels should no longer serve to facilitate illegal migration, but should instead be aimed at preventing and deterring people from embarking on a dangerous crossing. the starting point should be that asylum seekers are received in their own region. reception in one's own region leads to more efficient use of available resources and thus facilitates return to one's own country. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration. development aid and partnerships must be linked to the willingness of these countries to take back rejected asylum seekers and illegal immigrants. today, people in flanders who have worked all their lives survive on a gross pension of 1,100 euros, or even just 900 euros, while an average of 1,300 euros per month is needed to take in an asylum seeker. mr. president, we're out of money. it's time to stop immigration.
mr president, i have a question to put to you as president. the debate on the european council is on the agenda today. i have heard one intervention after another on catalonia and i think catalonia is very important, but that is on the agenda this afternoon. so i would like to call for a debate here today on what is now on the agenda and that is the european council. and there are important things on there. i hear a lady here today pleading for european defence. i am glad that the epp is finally taking the alde position on this. but i do not hear you say anything about the necessity of a pact on migration. that's priority one. i think we as a union must act strongly. one european asylum application, strict control of the external borders and above all: the commission has already taken action to combat trafficking in human beings. i want it to be about that.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i have to tell you first of all that i am a big admirer of spanish democracy, especially since that dramatic date of 23 february 1981. that was the day that colonel tejero attempted his coup d'état. javier cercas, in his famous book ‘anatomía de un instante’, describes how, under the threat of tejero’s pistol, three spanish political leaders stayed upright in their seats, refusing to hide under their benches. they were santiago carrillo, the historical leader of the communist party, adolfo suárez, the first prime minister of democratic spain, and his deputy, general guttiérrez mellado. despite the shots, not one of them blinked, an act of courage and determination that anchored forever democracy in spanish souls. spanish democracy was born under the pistol of the putschist tejero, so no one among us has to give a lesson in democracy to spain. (applause) now, 36 years later, spanish democracy has to surmount itself again – to surmount this deep division and to overcome this existential crisis. it has to do so not by believing that the judiciary can solve the problems on its own, and certainly not by using deplorable violence, even though it is based on a court ruling. in other words, this cannot be done just by relying on the power of the state. no, what we need is a renewed political vision, an inclusive dialogue, a vision that the future and the interest of all people living in spain lies in a multicultural, multilingual, federal state embedded in a multicultural, multilingual, federal europe. it is true that you cannot go against the law and it is also true that you cannot govern without the law, but it is even more true that you cannot solve such a deep division only with the law. you also need to listen, to try to understand each other, to have dialogue and to talk with each other. that is the only way to find solutions, and that is the real strength of good politicians and of statesmen. to my friends in catalonia, it is not in the interests of your citizens to pursue separatism at all costs. that the referendum was against the constitution is not my main point. the point is that this referendum simply lacked basic democratic legitimacy. you knew very well in advance that a majority of catalans would not participate and would stay at home, as the majority of them are against separation. it is not by accident that you did not even install a minimum threshold. so the result of this referendum was already known before it began. what do you call this? manipulation? deception? moreover, to declare independence based on the outcome of a defective referendum is totally irresponsible, not so much for spain, not so much for europe, but for catalonia itself. it will cause a fatal fracture in your society, a fracture that may be impossible to heal. who is going to profit from this gamble? the anti-europeans who, as we know, want to destroy our union and who have already started to abuse your cause and violate our treaties today. (applause)i urge all sides to stop the escalation and to go and sit around the table. the spirit there, around that table, has to be the understanding that the future of more than 70 european nations, the future of catalonia, the future of my own flemish community, lies not in brutal separation but lies in deep cooperation – cooperation inside federal structures in a federal europe. look a little bit – if i can ask that – to your own basque countrymen. look at what they have achieved, how they have developed their country, defeating terrorism and reinventing themselves, proud and autonomous. (applause) finally, let me say that in politics it is not shameful to make compromises. the opposite is true. i have done it all my life and i am still alive. but, moreover, when you have to make a choice between the steps forward of a compromise or the standstill due to purity, then choose the way forward, however small the steps may be. in the words of barbara tuchman, in her famous book – whose title is applicable today – ‘the march of folly’: ‘don’t throw away the greater for the less, and don’t pursue the unworkable at the sacrifice of the possible’. (applause)
mr president, commissioner, i do not think it would be desirable to include the stability and growth pact in the treaties, at least not without a fundamental change to the pact. if the tscg is to be replaced by a treaty which encourages the economic and social convergence of european countries and, more particularly, of the eurozone countries, it can only be done by avoiding, of course, the adoption of measures such as those which have led to the intensification of austerity. at the moment, let us admit it, the commission is only analysing budgetary data, but no overall vision is envisaged. however, it would be much more relevant to take account of all indicators, whether social, environmental or economic, and not just budgetary ones. by taking only part of the data into account, the tscg prevents member states from investing and, as we all know, without investment, no economic recovery is possible. this simply means fewer new jobs and more precariousness for european citizens. the amendment of the tscg is therefore an essential condition for providing quality jobs to the greatest number and combating growing poverty in the european union. the fact that the budget is seen as an entity disconnected from the lives of europeans has, as you know, created unacceptable inequalities in europe instead of providing solutions to reduce them. so have the courage to end austerity. we can see the damage every day. the return to public confidence requires a major change in social and economic direction. i think it is about time, commissioner.
i would like to thank mr lehne for the work he and his colleagues and their many collaborators have done to deliver this accounting report. we do hear some good numbers. 3.1 percent is a nice figure, better than last year, even lower than the lowest figure ever, from 2009. but i agree with mr de jong's questions. the note which mentions the 5% reserve, the commission's reservations: i would like to have that clarified during the discharge procedure. now, everything can be better. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european social fund is a good one, but we know that the vast majority of the funds are managed - 80% of the funds - in a shared management system, where the member states and the regions are responsible. the annual report shows that an extra effort is already being made to recover funds. this is undoubtedly being done under pressure from parliament, but it can be done better. i have a question for mr oettinger: how can we together - the commission and parliament - force the member states and the regional authorities to take greater responsibility for ensuring that the margin of error is effectively below 2%? i think, mr oettinger, that we must work together on this, parliament and the commission, and we must remind the member states and the regions of their responsibilities.
it's already been quoted here: the error rate is falling, but there are still more than 4 billion euros of european subsidies that are not being spent properly. so we have to be even more efficient with tax money. that is why i propose that we move towards even better and clearer european rules. the aim is to make it easier to assess the final impact of expenditure and thus to set better priorities. secondly - and this has been mentioned by colleagues including staes - it is important that the member states also take their responsibility: they are responsible for 75 per cent of the money spent on behalf of the european union. finally, we must ensure that only expenditure with european added value is made. if i see that we are still going to spend 12 million euros on free interrail tickets, i think that unfortunately we have a long way to go.
, on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, i am convinced that the european parliament will bring an unprecedented added value to the protection of the union's financial interests and i am particularly pleased that vat fraud has been included in the competence of the public prosecutor's office, despite certain limitations, which i regret. although we have no power of approval on the matter, parliament's concerns have been satisfactorily addressed. the situation was of course a shadow: some member states decided not to participate, thus pushing the others to embark on enhanced cooperation. however, i would like to recall that the fight against fraud against the union budget is a shared responsibility: that of the union and that of the member states. we are talking about european taxpayers' money here. i therefore find it particularly regrettable, indeed shocking, that member states, some of which are among the largest recipients of european funds, can evade their moral and political duty to do everything possible to combat fraud. i believe that serious consideration should be given to linking the allocation of european funds to the obligation to comply with this duty. it is inconceivable to me that the financial interests of the union do not enjoy a uniform level of protection in all member states. fortunately, we can still be pleased that no less than 20 member states have decided to go ahead to protect european public money. this is a crucial step in european integration and in building our area of justice. i very much hope that the public prosecutor's office will soon be able to demonstrate its effectiveness and that its powers will in future be extended to cover other crossborder threats faced by all european states, such as crossborder crime, terrorism and organised crime as we know them today. it would be the minimum to extend the competences to these subjects. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. i have only very, very partially understood the scope of this question. it wasn't a question, it was... i don't know... he referred me to belgium, he thinks belgium is one of the 20 countries that have therefore joined together to do this enhanced cooperation, so i did not understand the scope of the question, really, so i apologize to the speaker.
the european public prosecutor's office or eppo is responsible for combating complex cases of fraud. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. this is equivalent to the entire annual budget of the european union. some member states, such as belgium, are leaders in the fight against fraud. other countries let you drink. the new eom will be able to oblige these member states to launch fraud investigations. of course, we can't argue with that, but there is a but. at first, despite ongoing negotiations, we did not know what crimes the eppo would prosecute. after it became clear that the focus would be on large-scale fraud, it was decided to set up a new agency. but the treaty required that the eppo be integrated into eurojust, the european judicial cooperation unit. unfortunately, it was decided to operate the eppo alongside eurojust and olaf. not very efficient, but given the importance of anti-fraud, we'll settle for this.
author. mayeso isaac, that's the name of the last known victim. an innocent 12-year-old boy, kidnapped, sold and murdered, presumably for his hair or his bones, in the superstitious belief that it had magical powers. that's what's happening right now. for the past nine months, malawi has been hit by another wave of atrocities against people with albinism. at least two have been killed and seven others are reportedly being discriminated against and persecuted. as a colleague has already said, we know that this is only the tip of the iceberg. we've already seen reports of 600 people being discriminated against, persecuted and killed. one in every 20,000 people in africa is affected by albinism. so it's our goddamn duty to protect their human rights, too. just because they look different doesn't mean they should be killed. ladies and gentlemen, let us not adopt the attitude in this european parliament: "it's far from our bed, it only happens in africa". no, we have to make sure that this superstition stops in 2017. and we can. we need to provide better education. we must ensure that criminal organizations that trade in human body parts because blonde hair is said to have magical powers are dealt with and punished. we must ensure that children with albinism are protected and that discrimination is eliminated. colleagues, let us ensure that the human rights of everyone on this globe, regardless of their skin colour, are protected.
in writing. after the european farce about spain's brutal violence against the peace-loving catalans, one can ask with what credibility the eu defends human rights. yet it remains our duty to speak up for the fate of persecuted political activists anywhere in the world. that is why our delegation supports this resolution. the persecution of crimean tatars by moscow continues unabated. today we add two of their leaders and a journalist to the list of political prisoners. ilmi umerov, akhtem chiygoz and mykola semena stood up for their people, culture and future. enough to sentence them to harsh punishments after a sham trial. imprisoning old and sick opponents is putin's cynical means of maintaining the illegal annexation and cultural assimilation of crimea. it is time for russia to withdraw all political convictions and release all political prisoners. finally, the sanctions against russia must be further extended and the judges involved in these sham trials must be sanctioned.
, on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the maldives: sunshine, coconut trees, white sand beaches, turquoise waters and hotels like paradise. the postcard is idyllic on the front, but on the back, it's sharia law that dictates its law. the death penalty was reinstated three years ago, including for children. president yameen's regime has the "right" to execute only those sentenced by a majority. there are many cases of intimidation and murder of journalists and bloggers who defend freedom of expression: ismail hilath, yameen rasheed and all the others. lawyers were suspended for daring to call for the rule of law and mohamed nasheed, the first democratically elected president, was sentenced to 13 years in prison. the maldives is also one of the largest suppliers, proportionately, of jihadist reinforcements to the islamic state, and i haven't even mentioned women, with the public stoning of adulterous women, early marriage and rape. the list goes on and on. under the beach, it's hell! so you might as well know that when you click and book your vacation. a million tourists a year is a massive deterrent when diplomacy fails.
the proposal for a regulation under discussion today aims to ensure the functioning of the internal market for fertilising products, while ensuring that ec-marked fertilisers meet the requirements of protection of human, animal and plant health and environmental safety. while fertilisers are obviously crucial for agricultural production, their use can also have a negative impact on the environment and food safety, especially when they contain contaminants. at present, fertilisers are regulated at european level by the 2003 regulation. however, the latter only covers a part of the fertiliser market, since about 50% of all fertilisers on the european market are excluded from its scope. the existing regulation mainly concerns conventional fertilisers, so-called 'inorganic' fertilisers, which follow a linear economy model, since they are extracted from raw materials. the proposal for a regulation, on the other hand, initiates a shift towards a circular economy, as it aims to increase the reuse of raw materials that are currently disposed of as waste. putting organic fertilisers on an equal footing with conventional fertilisers can reduce waste and the environmental impact of fertilisation and agriculture. it is estimated that the recovery of nutrients already present in the european union, for example in the form of waste, could replace about 30% of the inorganic fertilisers currently on the market. this has been mentioned previously. this is a very technical issue, with a complex division of powers between the various committees involved. my colleagues and i have worked together to produce a text which i believe is well balanced. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr ţurcanu, who succeeded mrs gall-pelcz, who had done an excellent job, and my other fictitious colleagues for their cooperation. i therefore hope that tomorrow's vote will confirm the achievements we have made through the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. however, at the moment i am concerned about the possible reopening of the nitrates directive, which was a red line for my group from the outset and which, by common agreement, was not to be considered in this report. the 'nitrates' directive comprises two main elements: the principle of balanced fertilisation and the obligation to limit the use of manure, which avoids intensive livestock farming and promotes a rational agriculture. this is neither the place nor the time to rush to amend essential legislation to combat soil pollution. i would add that if the nitrate amendment were to pass what has been proposed at various stages of the dossier, i would instruct my group to vote against the whole of this report. i don't think we should take that chance. as regards the difficult question of cadmium thresholds, the compromise supported by my group in particular seems to me to be the most balanced solution, since it allows the precautionary principle to be applied in this area, while giving industry time to comply with these new requirements.
mr president, my party, the nva, is pulling hard to make our economy more circular. a level playing field between organic and inorganic fertilisers can strengthen that cycle model. flanders has been working on the biological cycle for 25 years. in 2015, over 800,000 tons of biowaste was converted into high-quality compost, which i like to call black gold. in addition, 2.2 million tonnes of other biowaste streams were converted into organic fertilisers. today we can incorporate these flemish best practices into european legislation by opting for ambitious european end-of-waste criteria for bio-waste. biowaste is a valuable resource with a lot of economic potential, but today still a third of it is lost in the garbage bag. we need to turn the tide by separating bio-waste and recycling it. this will enable us to replace a large proportion of the non-organic fertilisers. my delegation also supports the ambition to reduce cadmium gradually.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the use of these substances, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. for example, the substance acrylylfentanyl is a mouthful of a substance 50 times more potent than morphine. since the summer of 2016, the substance has killed 40 people. and yet, chinese manufacturers continue to sell it online. it is also legal in some member states. over the past decade, the number of variants of psychoactive substances at european level has increased dramatically. for example, in 2015, on average every three days a new substance was reported in the eu ews. the problem is that the current european system is outdated, because it is only aimed at classic drugs. it is also not a question of taking action quickly, hence the proposal for a directive which will be put to the vote tomorrow. under this new directive, counterfeit drugs are no longer excluded from the common european approach to the fight against drugs, with the ultimate aim of avoiding problems in police and judicial cooperation in the union. the new directive will significantly reduce the timeframe for rapid and effective action, making the eu's early warning system much more efficient. everyone agrees that dangerous designer drugs should be banned and removed from the market. but today any dangerous substance that europe wants to ban must go through a cumbersome legislative procedure. precious time is wasted. for example, tomorrow parliament is due to give its opinion on the substance furanylfentanyl. dealers get a free pass in the meantime. people get seriously ill or even die. and when the substance in question is finally banned, a new variant is already on the market. this is how we fight the beer dock. with these rules, we want to put an end to this. it is high time we tackled the harmful drugs that make big money.
in writing. whistleblowers are essential in a democratic society; however, they are often threatened with legal proceedings and reprisals in the workplace. national laws differ from one country to another and are often inadequate. we are calling on the european commission to come forward with a legislative proposal to ensure the protection of whistleblowers at european level by the end of the year. the paradox today is that whistleblowers are threatened, persecuted and prosecuted, while at the same time those who do are relatively protected. warning whistleblowers are the sentinels of our time, and when they serve the public interest, they must be properly protected.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all, i want to thank president tusk for his intervention, and also for the publicity he has made for my hashtag campaign. thank you. i am a proud european, so you are also an adept of it, mr tusk. and i have to tell you, after the state of the union of our president of the commission a few weeks ago, we got a speech at the sorbonne by emmanuel macron, and we now have your agenda for the coming european councils. i have to confess that each time i have heard these proposals – this state of the union, your agenda – i have felt an enormous excitement. the same eagerness that i felt when i was a young boy and was browsing through the colourful catalogues my mother received at the end of every year – the 3suisses, was that in france? i think also in luxembourg it exists. i think it is the otto in germany. the shiny things in these catalogues seemed always so far away, dreams on colourful paper, and to be very honest, that is rather what i am feeling today again – that we have great plans, that we have huge ambitions, but are we really ready now in this european union to make the radical changes needed to make it happen? because, mr tusk, there are a number of structural flaws in the european union that we need to solve. the first, as we know, is the unanimity rule that is still applied in the european union, and especially in the council, which has been blocking progress for decades now. the european arrest warrant has taken more than a decade to implement because of the unanimity rule; with the european patents we had to wait more than 25 years because of the unanimity rule; the same is happening for the energy union – we do not have an energy union because of the unanimity rule; we do not have a fully-fledged banking union because of the unanimity rule. the americans were capable in nine months to react to the financial crisis by cleaning up the banks, with an investment programme of usd 900 billion and with quantitative easing of usd 1.2 trillion, and we, after nine years, are still debating all this because of unanimity. maybe it is a good moment to recall that, because with the posting of workers the council has taken a position for once. why? because they did not apply unanimity. for once, they have voted in the council and have reached a position. so that is the first thing to do. are we ready? there is a proposal by jean—claude juncker to massively use ‘passerelles’ to solve the problem. are we ready to finish this unanimity rule inside the council and inside our institutions? the second flaw is structural weakness: we know that there is a long, endless list of things, of doubts, of earmarks, of exceptions in our institutions. are we ready to finish this europe à la carte instead of continuing it as we still do? finally, the third disease we need to cure is what i call the ‘potemkin syndrome’ of the european union: that we always make beautiful plans, but without creating the necessary instruments, the necessary tools, or the necessary budget to make it happen. schengen without the border and coastguard; the euro without the treasury; foreign policy without a european defence community. so the moment of truth, mr tusk, is coming on the day – which is coming very soon – when we will decide on the new multiannual financial framework. are we really ready to implement these ambitious plans of jean-claude juncker, of emmanuel macron, and of your agenda? then it is necessary that we also be ready to open this financial framework and to give more than the former 1%, which is ridiculous if we want to fulfil all the ambitions that we have today. it is not really even 1% if you deduct from that the contributions that we received from the member states and are going immediately back to the member states; it is only 0.14% to protect our citizens against external threats, to protect our citizens and our borders internally, and at the same time to also organise the currency union. with 1%, sorry, that is not possible. to those populists and nationalists who are always saying ‘oh, this european superstate’, to have a budget of 1% and then talk about the european superstate is ridiculous and makes no sense at all. but that is the moment of truth. the moment of truth will not be the whole list of summits; the moment of truth will be when we discuss the money – when we discuss the budget, and when we discuss the new multiannual financial framework. that brings me, finally, mr tusk, to the remark you made on the composition of parliament and the announcement that there will be an informal summit on it on 23 february. fantastic! maybe there are other things that i could organise to have an informal summit about, but you have to know that the legislative initiative for the composition of the parliament is of this parliament and not the european council. i have to tell you that. (applause from the house)what i expect is for the european council to back the proposal that will be made by a huge majority here in the house. that is what i expect! it will be a proposal based on the reduction of the number – that is a fair point. it will be a proposal that finally puts justice in the system with degressive proportionality, so that we do not take all five years to restart the work. and it will be – if everybody is of that opinion – a proposal in which we create a european democracy with transnationalists securing the spitzenkandidaten. if i may give you one little piece of advice – do not open again the spitzenkandidaten. we decided here in 2014 that it is an enormous achievement of european democracy. it is because of the spitzenkandidaten that we have our president, jean-claude juncker, here, and we will not accept any more changes to this system and this achievement of european democracy.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr tusk, it is always a pleasure to welcome you, and i am serious, because we are all convinced here that the consolidation and deepening of the european project will not be against the member states but with them, and you are the president of the council. that is why, after what was probably the best state of the union address given here by president juncker in september, i was looking forward to hearing you speak here about your vision for the future of europe. i must confess to you that i am disappointed, because what you are offering us is not a programme for the leaders but a calendar of meetings with the subjects you want to deal with, a calendar like the one that our parliament or the commission has been publishing for years without anyone making a fuss about it. and so, big news - cheers - the european council is starting to organise its work. who knows, maybe he'll make his arguments public soon? but beyond the mockery, i want to point out the increasingly striking contrast between the institution you preside over and the one i have the honour of belonging to. i would like to take the example of asylum and migration policy, the main topic of last week's summit, during which you reaffirmed - and this was obviously expected - the option of a fortress europe, ready to make the most infamous agreements with the most odious regimes, or even warlords, to ensure that none of these unfortunates ever again set foot on the territory of the european union. but, mr tusk, since no fortress is impenetrable, a number of our member states continue to face the challenge of migration - i am thinking of course of greece, italy, spain, malta and bulgaria - and they are left alone to face this challenge. i am of course referring to the dublin regulation. in june 2016, the european commission, chaired by mr juncker, made a proposal to correct this unfair system. last week, after a lot of hard work, led by cecilia wikström, here, parliament improved the original text so that the member states now have to take on the challenge of migration and the reception of asylum seekers in a way that shows solidarity. i was in the council's press room last week and i went to listen to you at the press conference. i must admit that i was surprised to see you say that the council would take up the problem in december, with the idea of perhaps reaching a conclusion by the end of the first half of 2018, that is to say two years after the commission's proposal and eight months after the agreement reached here in the european parliament. quite frankly, when i hear about "leader's agenda", i think the term "follower's agenda" would be much more appropriate. i should like to continue by mentioning the fight against unbridled tax competition. here again, while the commission and parliament want to move forward, the council you are chairing is the guarantor of a stagnation whose only beneficiaries are those who should be the biggest taxpayers - i am thinking of course of multinationals and the rich. you will tell me that on another thorny subject - the question of posted workers, which has been poisoning the european debate for years - the council was able to reach agreement last night. i welcome that, but it is on a text that is much less protective than the one adopted by parliament under the leadership of mrs morin-chartier and mrs jongerius. you can be sure that we will defend our text to the hilt, which is not primarily aimed at protecting the internal market, but at protecting workers from exploitation. mr. tusk, i see you're interested in this... i see that you are interested, mr tusk, but please continue, there is no problem. the parliament brings together people from the same countries and political families as the council. so explain to me how it is possible in this parliament to deal with such complicated subjects as those you are dealing with and to reach agreements that are both ambitious and supported by very large majorities, something that often proves difficult, if not impossible, in the council. and i dream of heads of state and government determined to rise to the top. they would be guided by the conviction that in the 21st century there is only shared sovereignty and that their mission is to protect the well-being of all and not of a minority. armed with their courage - because, after all, they are the ones who have the supreme political authority in each of their countries - they would know how to give the necessary impetus to overcome national selfishness and political meanness whenever necessary. instead of being the embodiment of the strength of the passive, they would be the ones who would push the commission to show even more speed and ambition in bringing innovative solutions to the challenges of this century. i am thinking, for example, of the digitisation of the economy. how can we avoid creating a "cyber proletariat"? i am naturally thinking of the question of the ecological transition of our societies, which should be the union's main strategy. it would be the council that would challenge parliament to move faster to reach an agreement so that we could negotiate. so let me conclude by quoting a compatriot, jacques brel: 'dreaming an impossible dream, ... trying, without strength and without armor, to reach the inaccessible star, that is my quest.' that is our quest! don't tell me, mr tusk, that it is vain.
i thank you, madam president. my mailbox has been full of messages about catalonia and turkey lately. last week there was that summit of european heads of government in brussels and there was talk about turkey and the fact that mr erdoğan cannot join the european union. a good case. finally, i should say. it's okay to be a little more than that. but catalonia, catalonia, not a word has been said. in europe, however, many expensive words are used about freedom of expression, about political refugees, about democracy, about respect for the rule of law. european politicians are often the first to teach the world lessons. - keep your finger up. but today the rule of law is under attack right under our noses in the european union. people are being politically imprisoned here in europe. and not a word about that. no word in the conclusions of the european council. no word on the agenda of this parliament in strasbourg this week either. i am glad that mr tusk has made a statement in very veiled terms. but for the rest, it is still mainly very selective indignation. and yet it shows the hypocrisy of these european institutions. there's only one word for that: what a shame!
president, with the somewhat bombastic term 'leaders' agenda', mr tusk has here explained its most important principle: the preservation of the unity. let me say that it is a totally outdated and sclerosized view, that preservation of the unity. the new era i am advocating is one that is opposed to centralisation and bureaucratisation and that goes back to the origins of european cooperation, namely the starting point of identity and cooperation based on subsidiarity. the differences which are the strength of europe must take precedence over this strange, somewhat strange unity. i therefore oppose, on behalf of a growing number of peoples, the acceleration which you have called for here after the french, dutch and german elections. you forget that there are now austrian and czech elections too, which all illustrate one thing: the power of the new age. you must not resist. you must be part of it and you must have less european union instead of more.
president tusk, commissioner, proud to be a european! i'm a little worried. a proud european, you know. but i would be even more proud, mr tusk, if we could move faster and much further. you said: "if we want to go fast, we have to go alone". no, i would like to move forward quickly and with all of us, towards a more secure europe, with strong external borders, with a european defence union, - as far as i am concerned - a genuine european army, towards a genuine european asylum and migration policy, ladies and gentlemen, the dublin reform, attention to child immigration. i didn't hear that today. ten thousand young migrants are still missing in europe, in deplorable conditions in camps. we have to do something about that. and, ladies and gentlemen, many have said here that this turkey does not belong in the european union. ladies and gentlemen, let us use this moment and brexit to reform europe, to a smaller commission, away from the unanimity rule and, of course, with one seat in the european parliament.
on behalf of the group of the european right i think everyone agrees that europe's priorities are indeed jobs, security and migration. on migration, we are waiting for commissioner mogherini to finally take action on the conclusion of the readmission agreements, which have been discussed for a long time. on security, we need more european cooperation. i'm thinking about taking on cybercrime. after all, half of all crimes today are cybercrimes, and for many europeans this is a major concern. we must also work more closely together on defence. the industrial development programme for european defence is a good example of this. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances is a very important one. i also hope that the commission will make more money available for european research in the proposals for the new multiannual financial framework. because 1 euro invested in this will generate an economic value of 11 euros. so that sounds like a good investment to me. let us concentrate on these matters and not on matters that no citizen is aware of, such as a european finance minister or transnational lists.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate our two rapporteurs, siegfried mureşan and richard ashworth, who have done - we all agree - a remarkable job. i shall not repeat what has been said before me, and very well, by the chairman of our committee and by several speakers. i would like to limit myself to welcoming some of the progress that i consider significant in the draft budget for 2018. i would like to welcome the increase in the appropriations allocated to defence research. this is an urgent necessity in the present state of destabilisation of our eastern and southern flanks and we must move towards a european defence union. i welcome the reduction or reallocation of the pre-accession aid currently available to turkey. it is time to show mr erdogan that his authoritarian drift is intolerable and that he must stop insulting european leaders. i welcome the increase in the resources devoted to the fight against terrorism, which is what the citizens of all our countries have asked for. europol in particular needs more staff and more operational funds to improve coordination between the police and security forces of our member states. finally, i welcome the fact that the resolution before us expressly calls, on my proposal, for the creation of a financial assistance mechanism for victims of terrorist attacks. our financial solidarity cannot be limited to the consequences of fires, earthquakes and floods. in a europe that wants to be a europe of values, the blood that flows deserves at least as much attention as the water damage.
turkey and the european union, it's not exactly a love affair. on the contrary, it is perhaps at best a relationship of understanding because turkey is where it is and in these uncertain geopolitical times that is a relevant consideration. at the same time, i really think it's time to be honest. is it important that turkey does not slide further? is it important that turkey does not choose russia? yes, that is important. but does this mean that turkey should become a member of the european union for a while? no, i'm not going. no, i'm not going. it is time we acknowledged that and we have to do it consistently. that also means that we must stop giving erdogan pennies under the european label of accession support. but what am i determining? the european budget will also provide erdoğan with another eur 589 million next year in the form of accession aid. we need to get that out. we have to stop that. the citizens expect more from us. we have to give them that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals. that is the end result of a thorough exercise, an exercise in parliament's monitoring and control of how the money of the european budget, and therefore of the european citizen and taxpayer, has been spent over the past year. were the correct procedures followed? can you confirm how much money was spent? and moreover, did the resources used ensure that the citizen got what he paid for? the starting point of any good and proper discharge should be that everyone who spends money from the european budget should be monitored in a transparent way as to how it was done and also whether it was done in a responsible way. in accordance with the treaties of the european union, the european parliament is responsible for this exercise. the council shall make a recommendation to the european parliament. unfortunately, since 2011, the european parliament has been refusing to grant discharge to the council, on the grounds that there is a power struggle between parliament and the council, and also on the grounds that parliament has the habit of asking all the institutions to which it is required to grant discharge questions, both in writing and orally. the council takes a purely legalistic view and considers that the european parliament should only grant discharge to the commission. that's not in line with practice. parliament asks questions to the commission, asks questions to the secretary-general of the european parliament, asks questions to the economic and social committee, to the committee of the regions, to all the agencies. the council, on the other hand, refuses to answer our questions. the council is therefore refusing to engage in dialogue. it has to be said i admit it: there's been progress. the council is increasingly presenting information on its website, which is helping us to find out little by little what is happening with the budget of the council, the council of ministers and the european council. the council of ministers has not yet adopted a decision on the budget. let 's face it . only dialogue will lead to a solution in the end. i therefore met the secretary-general of the council at the beginning of my mandate as rapporteur. mrs gräßle, chairman of the committee on budgetary control, did the same. we wanted to know what the contours were of a modus vivendi, of improving relations between parliament and the council when it comes to granting discharge. after long and extensive discussions with my shadow rapporteurs, in close consultation with the chairman of the committee on budgetary control and in close consultation with the coordinators of all the groups in the committee on budgetary control, we have reached an agreement. that agreement was presented to the conference of presidents last thursday and since then we as the committee on budgetary control have had a mandate to negotiate with the council of ministers, myself as rapporteur, mrs gräßle as chairman of the committee on budgetary control and in the presence of klaus welle, secretary-general of the european parliament. what are these contours? what's the warrant? the council and the european parliament have different roles in discharge. the european parliament gives discharge. the council shall deliver an opinion, shall make a recommendation to the european parliament on the discharge. the second. the recognition that the council and the european parliament must do so on the basis of correct facts and correct information. the third. we ask the council to say that they will reply to the written and oral questions put to them by the european parliament. in return, we in the european parliament say: if you, the council, have questions for the european parliament, we are prepared to answer them in a form of good reciprocity. the result of this mandate and of the negotiations should be that the tension between parliament and the council is resolved and that we can deal with each other in an open and transparent way, so that the citizen also learns during the discharge exercise how the 540 million euro which the council spends annually is being handled. i hope, mr president-in-office, that our offer will be one which will enable us to enter into dialogue, to finally resolve our conflict and to resolve a dispute between the council and parliament in a proper way.
- i'm the reporter. president. - i shall be very brief. i think it was a fruitful debate. the council has clearly seen that there is a consensus in this european parliament. we want to move forward. we have a warrant. i think we're being generous in what we're offering. i understand that the council is seeking to engage in dialogue. i hope that this will lead to an agreement so that my successor, who will have to deal with the discharge for the past year, will succeed in making a favourable recommendation to parliament. i really hope that dialogue will lead to a solution to this conflict which, as mr sarvamaa said, must not remain a "chance".
member of the commission. – mr president, the investment of this commission in a more social europe has many facets. there is the principle of equal pay for equal work at the same place, which has yesterday been embraced by a large majority from east and west in the council, but this commission has also reinvigorated the promotion of workers’ health and safety. the protection of workers’ health and safety at work has therefore also been included as one of the principles of the european pillar of social rights which was also embraced yesterday by the council, to be proclaimed in november by the three institutions the fight against occupational cancer is also a matter of priority for me personally. cancer kills more workers than any other work-related disease and causes many families enormous suffering. i am pleased that the council and the european parliament have reached a timely compromise on our first proposal to update the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens at work. this agreement between the co-legislators confirms the strong political commitment by all the european institutions to fight against work-related cancer. it should also pave the way for the second and third batches with a view to continue enhancing the protection of workers. i would like to thank once again the rapporteur ms ulvskog for her commitment during the interinstitutional negotiations. this indeed enabled us to reach agreement on this file at first reading. it is only fair to say that the negotiations were not easy. for parliament, one of the key points in the discussions was to include reprotoxic substances in the scope of this directive. in the end, a fair compromise was reached with the council. the deal was a review clause which says that ‘not later than the first quarter of 2019 the commission shall assess the opportunity of amending the scope of this directive to include reprotoxic substances’. i can assure you that the commission will deliver on this clause. this, however, as you all know requires comprehensive analytical work. another difficult element in the negotiation was the exposure limit values to chromium vi, respirable crystalline [silica] and hardwood and softwood dusts. in the end, an agreement was reached in line with the results of the scientific research and the discussions we had with the social partners. thank you for all your work; i think we can be happy about the results and we will continue to cooperate further.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, tomorrow we will indeed vote on the revision of the directive on carcinogens and mutagens. it's going to be a big step. not so much because it is a priority for the commission, but mainly because every year between 100 000 and 150 000 workers are diagnosed with occupational cancer. we cannot accept that workers destroy their health or lose their lives in order to earn it. first of all, let me thank the commission very much, and in particular commissioner marianne thyssen. while new substances have been developed, it will have taken us ten years to review this directive. the commission's proposal puts an end to this deadlock. the institutional agreement to be voted on tomorrow combines ambition with pragmatism. ambition, because it sets high standards for professional exposure. pragmatism, because it provides for transitional periods to allow companies to adapt and comply with the new rules. i would have liked to see reproductive toxic substances covered directly by this directive. that was not possible, but i am glad that the commission and the council have taken note of this call from parliament and will decide on it in the coming months. finally, i would like to stress two points. at the beginning of the year, the commission tabled a second proposal for the revision of this directive. i hope that the commission will not stop on such a good path. this directive should be reviewed regularly in the light of scientific and technological developments in order to advance and improve the protection of workers. in any case, and in the same spirit as the rapporteur on this first package of measures, we will continue to work with you in this capacity, madam commissioner. i also welcome the social partners who are proactively negotiating sectoral agreements to better protect workers from carcinogens, in particular the nepsi agreement which i believe is really a signpost agreement. in the field of health and safety at work, the key words for me must be 'prevention and consultation'.
president, ladies and gentlemen, the new digital entry and exit system, known as the ees, is intended to make it easier to track who is entering or leaving the eu. because everything is digital, it should be smooth. this will certainly benefit tourism to the eu. the ees shall record the date, time and place of entry and exit of travellers. for example, visa holders who stay longer than they are allowed in the eu are more likely to run into trouble. the ees is also important in the fight against terrorism. the system will allow identifying foreigners who have destroyed their documents or whose passports have been stolen. it's also a detection tool, because suspects can be traced through the point of entry or through their fingerprints. the key now is to keep all databases up to date and to share information effectively. that is why the n-va fully supports this proposal. the security of our citizens and the prevention of illegal residence are absolute priorities for the n-va.
madam president, commissioner, my group - and i thank my colleague, angelika mlinar, for having said so right away, despite her personal reservations - is in favour of the agreement between the european parliament and the council. in our view, the reinforcement of the identification of persons entering and leaving the schengen area is a necessary corollary of freedom of movement within this area. with the help of the entry/exit system with automatic gates, we hope - and this will undoubtedly be the case - to reduce waiting times at border controls, and to improve the quality of these controls by making it easier to detect document fraud and identity fraud. this will allow us to automatically calculate the length of stay allowed for each traveller and to check whether it is being respected. of course, i am aware that following the opinion of the court of justice on the pnr agreement with canada, it was legitimate to raise questions about the compatibility of certain provisions of the entry/exit system with respect for the charter of fundamental rights. these questions, i repeat, were relevant and legitimate. however, i believe - and the overwhelming majority of my group agrees - that after the analysis of the conclusions made by our legal service, we can proceed calmly to the approval of the agreement reached.
madam president, commissioner, a european union without internal borders is of course only possible with strong, smart external borders. that is why i can only applaud this new entry-exit system. the system of stamping passports at the borders, the long queues, will be over, and we will be able to give the bona fide travellers quicker access to the territory. but what i also want to stress is that we can use this system to stop and track the travellers, the illegal migrants, the terrorists, much better. we will encourage the exchange of information and, above all, we will ensure that strong external borders will enable us to maintain our present system of free movement within the european union. we shall be supporting this wholeheartedly.
in writing. the new border control system for travellers to the schengen area allows us to strengthen the protection of the external borders and close the gaps in the network. until we know who's entering our borders, we can't guarantee the safety of our citizens. this automated system replaces the manual stamping of passports. the enhanced border control system records biometric data (fingerprints and facial scans) and entry and exit data of the more than 50 million travellers who travel to the schengen area each year and compares this information with data from europol, european and national databases. it allows for the immediate arrest of suspects with false identities at the border. we are thus making it impossible for terrorists to enter the schengen area unnoticed and then move from one member state to another without being detected.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, #metoo has brought us many shocking stories, from all sectors and unfortunately also from this parliament: masturbating at the desk, to the women sitting in the elevators, ...these are stories that should not exist in 2017. the difficult part, of course, is that it often involves power relations. because what do you do when your boss is on you, but you love your job, you have a loan to pay off, and you have kids to raise? i think and i hope that the #metoo that broke the taboo will bring about some things. first, that women straighten their backs, say "no", "no" right away, use their knees when necessary. secondly, men realize that they're going too far and say, "not me", "i will not do this". finally, madam president, i would urge - i always thought the european parliament protected its workers enough, but i fear we do not do enough when i read these stories - so let us take action and protect the victims here in parliament. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
blue-card answer. – i don’t think i said it here, but i told it to a journalist who wrote it very harshly, and more harshly than i said it. i only said that here in the parliament you have a mix of cultures and some cultures are more open and warm, and more open to touching people. other cultures have different opinions on that. i never wanted to stigmatise any culture. it happens in every culture, it happens in every sector and it happens in every place. the only thing i wanted to say is: maybe some cultures have to think a little bit more before they touch a woman.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). we do not want boat refugees to be automatically brought to the eu. we do not want to see illegal entry into europe rewarded with residence rights and benefits. by the way, pushback was possible in the mediterranean before 2012, but in 2012 the european court of human rights put an end to it. this is how the dogma of the right to asylum in europe was born. it is therefore virtually impossible for frontex to monitor the european borders and stop the influx. in addition, the european parliament recently decided to oblige the member states to transfer 200 000 refugees from the middle east each year. it was also decided that in return no pressure should be exerted to conclude a take-back agreement. this means that illegal immigrants and/or criminals cannot be sent back either. the vote on this in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection was not entirely in line with the rules, with thanks to the left, which is always so adamant about respecting those rules. and that while germany and austria are voting to introduce an absolute maximum limit on the reception of refugees - something the nva has been advocating for years and also an idea that is constantly dismissed as impossible by left-wing politicians, but now it is entering, albeit only in national politics for the time being. fortunately, we can still count on the member states to provide us with a more realistic view of the situation.
i would like to thank mr hökmark for his efforts in drawing up this report. i also thank the other shadow rapporteurs for their positive and productive cooperation. the result is a clear compromise that can be supported by a large majority. every year, we spend a lot of time analyzing our economy and trying to figure out how we can do better. the main outcome is the country-specific recommendations. i would therefore ask the member states to implement it. of course, there are many different views on many measures, but a high debt burden is a risk and a mortgage on the future. we must ensure that our children and grandchildren do not have to pay the bill for this. we don't have to spend less, we have to spend differently. we need to invest more in research and innovation to remain competitive. modernise the economy, reduce administrative burdens and reduce the burden on labour, in order to attract more investment, which will stimulate growth. investing in innovation will secure jobs and prosperity for the future. countries that are doing less well, either in terms of budgetary performance or in terms of competitiveness and productivity, need to make more efforts. emphasis should be placed on education and skills. and financing for companies and smes needs to be improved. on the other hand, member states that do well should certainly not be punished. finally, i would like to emphasize the following: the basis of an economy is a healthy balance between income and expenditure, and therefore a healthy tax system. this is the responsibility of the member states. the semester is a document that gives a broad picture of our economy. employment is part of this, as are many other aspects. in future, economic and monetary affairs should remain the basis of the report.
mr president, the loss of confidence in the european market following the 2008 crisis, but also the reduction in public spending, have had a direct effect on european growth, which today remains slow and, as you said, mr commissioner, is not inclusive growth, given the great disparities in europe today. in the case of employment in particular, although there has been an increase in the employment rate, it is clear that this increase has not affected all countries or all regions of europe. it is particularly noteworthy that it is accompanied by more precarious jobs and has not reversed the unemployment curve for young people. today, some regions of europe have a youth unemployment rate of over 30%. then it's true that we must offer better. we have put forward a few proposals: first, to increase public and private investment, which creates jobs in regions that are not benefiting from the effects of the recovery; secondly, to give importance to education and training in the context of the european semester; third, strengthen the 'youth guarantee'; fourth, to stress the importance of collective bargaining in improving the purchasing power of workers; fifthly, to combat income polarization and to strengthen social protection systems. and finally, work on work-life balance. all this must be possible through discussions in the employment, social policy, health and consumers council (epsco), which i believe should be associated with the european semester.
when banks repackage a lot of loans to then sell them to other financial players, we call that securitization. very complex, but very important. for example, if you watch the movie "the big short", it explains very well how that effectiveness was part of the basis of the financial crisis in the united states. a good movie by the way, a highly recommended one, oscar winner too, a movie with ryan gosling and with christian bale. but we must be careful with these financial tricks, these techniques, and that is why i think it is really important that the european parliament should propose measures to make this easier and, above all, more transparent. that is the only way to ensure that our financial system becomes stronger, becomes more stable, and at the same time we can ensure that sufficient resources are still being pumped into our economy and in particular into our smes.
mr president, on 17 december 2003 the european parliament took a major step forward in protecting the environment by adopting this directive on environmental liability. protecting nature and biodiversity while focusing on innovation, on the technologies of the future, is clearly in the dna of our parliament, it is clearly in the dna of european liberals. it was my friend and former dutch liberal colleague, toine manders, who was the rapporteur at the time and who was in the process of putting this community system for the prevention and repair of environmental damage on the water table. whether it's gmos and the risk of unintentional contamination of conventional or organic crops, or the carbon market, created in 2005 to reduce greenhouse gases, the polluter pays principle applies every time. in its 2016 implementation report, the european commission acknowledges that while the 2004 directive is effective in repairing environmental damage and encouraging prevention, it has not yet - to put it diplomatically - realised its full potential. as mrs girling has pointed out, this is a question of observing the application of the directive, and as our rapporteur has said, there is sometimes a gap between theory and practice. mrs ferrara, who has done an excellent job - i want to thank her - spoke earlier of a non-homogeneous and superficial application. i wrote down his words. this is true for damage to protected species and natural habitats. it is known how the 'habitats' and 'birds' directives can be circumvented by some member states. the same is true for damage to water resources. another category covered by the directive is soil pollution, which can have serious consequences for human health. here again, there is room for improvement. progress which - it is important to say - can also be achieved through prevention. a very recent example: we voted here two days ago against the renewal of the glyphosate programme. i do not want to reopen this debate and i do not want to go back to the carcinogenic nature of the substance, but to its impact on the soil. simply avoiding it would therefore be the most environmentally responsible approach, namely prevention. in conclusion, i would say - as others have said here - that we can of course strengthen environmental law, but for me the urgent thing is to apply the polluter-pays principle concretely and fully in european policies and also - this is our paragraph 29 - it is important, and this is what mrs ferrara proposes - to set up this european fund for the reparation of environmental damage, because the victims are counting on us.
for the greens/efa group mr president, on friday 17 november a summit will be held in gothenburg devoted exclusively to the question of social europe. our fellow citizens are a little bit nervous to hear about this social europe without ever seeing its achievements in a very credible way, as competition remains the dominant model between social systems and between tax systems. i think it would be quite counter-productive for this parliament not to be interested in this summit and, in particular, before it takes place. of course, we can debate this at our leisure when the facts have been established, but i think that if this parliament wants to show a little bit of maturity, it is up to it to indicate the directions that this summit should take. that is why our group is asking for this debate to take place this week. it can also be held afterwards, but it is absolutely important that we can give our orientations before the summit meets.
for the greens/efa group mr president, one does not prevent the other. when the european council meets, we discuss it before and we discuss it after. i think that for a summit of this importance, this is the least we can do.
it is good that there are common criteria so that people who want to work in inland navigation or who want to develop in such a profession can have their skills recognised more easily. the eu qualification certificate can then open doors where in the past there were different separate schemes. in flanders we have grown thanks to our waterways and it is time we rediscovered the possibilities of transport by water. 80% of flemish farms are located within 10 km of a navigable waterway. the european inland waters are also still under-exploited. as a sustainable alternative to road transport, inland waterway transport can also contribute to reducing the environmental impact of transport. i have seen firsthand how entrepreneurs in flanders are working in the sector, responding to the strengths of inland navigation with innovative solutions. but future growth depends on the availability of qualified personnel. now the average age is 55. in order to make inland waterway professions more attractive, the new directive is therefore welcome in my view.
the figures have already been mentioned by the commissioner: every year, 25 500 people die on our european roads and 135 000 are injured. this is a tragedy for the people involved, for the families and for our society. the safety of road traffic and the reduction of road fatalities are also our top priorities. as this report rightly points out, the integration of intelligent driver assistance systems in vehicles can certainly contribute to this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i have questions, however, about expensive european studies on binding targets for road checks or, for example, for european intervention in cycling infrastructure, which are asked for in the report. such initiatives, such decisions can be taken better by the competent authorities in the member states, at national or regional level, where they better meet the needs of the specific context and road situation and the needs of the road users there. flanders, the nation i represent, will provide the proof. the flemish minister for transport is succeeding in reducing the number of road deaths year by year. so tailored policy works. let us therefore work with the member states and the regions to build a safer europe that really saves lives.
in writing. i am in favour of new road safety devices becoming standard equipment. we would like to see driver assistance systems such as speed control, automatic braking systems and lane keeping assistance systems made compulsory on all new vehicles. the figures speak for themselves: 25 500 people die on european roads and 135 000 are seriously injured on our roads every year. the european parliament therefore votes in favour of technologies that make driving safer. among the proposed measures, we would like to see the mandatory detection of so-called vulnerable users such as pedestrians, cyclists and motorcyclists; helping drivers avoid them would save many lives. more specifically for trucks and buses, we would also like to see front, side and rear cameras installed as well as curve assist systems which are very useful in reducing blind spots.
we are going to debate the rule of law in malta and poland, human rights and democracy in far-off somalia, sudan and madagascar. but spain and catalonia, apparently, are taboo. civilians don't understand that. they see police brutality against catalan voters. they see leaders of a democratic, peaceful civil movement being imprisoned, teachers being prosecuted for the content of their lessons, elected politicians being put in jail for rebellion and threatened with sentences of up to 30 years. citizens know very well that this is not in line with democratic principles, with the fundamental rights and freedoms that we share together in the european union. eu leaders are silent, look the other way, or worse, in the case of juncker: support the repression. i believe that there will come a time when history will judge juncker, tajani, timmermans and so on harshly. there should be no political prisoners, and certainly not in the european union. we must not be silent. i will not be silent and rest until the catalan political prisoners are released.
for the greens/efa group madam president, 2008 the ubs scandal, 2013 offshore leaks, 2014 lux leaks, 2015 swiss leaks, football leaks, that is the hsbc scandal, 2016 the panama papers and the bahamas leaks, 2017 the malta files and now the paradise papers. you have counted correctly, ladies and gentlemen, with these ten scandals, the vast majority of our citizens are victims, their loyalty card is full. what will they gain from the eleventh, can they hope for a fair taxation? assuming nothing here is illegal, which is doubtful, is it still legitimate? one thing is certain: tax injustice is not the product of a natural phenomenon, but rather the result of deliberate political choices. they are not unaware that for the last 30 years, the elected political majorities in europe have made our taxes less and less progressive and have been competing with each other for creativity in creating the gaps in which the profiteers of the system can burrow. but why, why, why, even today, those who govern us, as here in france, emmanuel macron, continue to pass tax laws that benefit the richest? of course, there are some who would like to lick the hand that feeds them, or perhaps will one day feed them. but above all, there's this delusion that making the rich richer and protecting mega-corporations benefits everyone. in reality, all this only strengthens their ability to extract a rent from our societies and the planet. this is why tax administrations are reduced to a dry regime, this is why accounting transparency for multinationals and for the beneficiaries of trusts, foundations and shell companies is still not the rule. this is why the harmonisation of corporate taxation is not progressing, and why tax havens continue to flourish, including within the union. and who is to blame for all this? finance ministers who will only act under pressure and on condition that the fundamentals of the system are not called into question. i would like to give them a warning here, because tax evasion not only worsens inequality and undermines our public services, it seriously undermines our democracies, because the trust on which our society is based is eroding more and more every day, because of your refusal to act. it will sooner or later come crashing down, unless, of course, and i conclude, madam president, that you, the ministers of finance, find the courage to abandon your toxic beliefs. that is what the overwhelming majority of our citizens are asking of you.
question for the council madam president, i listened carefully to our colleague mr rosati, and i want to say that in terms of legality, i fully agree with what he said. i just wonder why, in the context of the panama papers commission, he and his group did not support a whole series of amendments that would have made all of these things illegal. why, in the context of our colleague mr rozière's report on the protection of whistleblowers, did he and his group, the epp, table a whole series of amendments which do not protect journalists?
tax evasion is a criminal offence, tax avoidance is not. in principle, everyone has the right to pay as little tax as possible, as long as he stays within the legal limits. and perhaps that is why we should amend the legislation as you propose, commissioner. but the crux of the problem is that while every individual and every company has the same rights, they do not have the same opportunities. a small and medium-sized enterprise in my region of west flanders cannot afford appleby's services. that's what i call class fiscality. some feel that the super-rich and the multinationals should retain the right to continue to slip through the net's maze because those profits trickle down to the average man, because that money does end up there. but that's outdated, the facts prove it. we have to make the political choice for fiscal justice, and if we make that choice, we have to do it together. but for that, we must all be involved, all the member states of europe. i was really astonished this weekend to hear dutch prime minister rutte announce that the dividend tax would be abolished. in one breath he added that the netherlands did not want to end up like belgium, and i quote: "an economic desert that has only one multinational left". the mistake is that this is a sovereign decision of one member state. of course, that's not the case. it's short-term thinking. it is blindly following the logic of multinationals, and the latter are the only real winners. how much outrage must there be before everyone realizes that this class taxation is eating away at the foundations of our society?
mr president, commissioner, it is clear that the tax practices of the richest and of multinationals are truly disgusting. by defying all fiscal and social justice, they only feed all populisms. the ultra-privileged are depriving the vast majority of our citizens who pay taxes of better schools, better health care and the creation of hundreds of thousands of jobs. it's completely unbearable and you have to beat him up all the time. i think that austerity, like tax evasion, is not a fatality. it is only a question of political will. as you said, the absolute necessity of a public country-by-country report for companies is a prime example of this. it will bring the necessary transparency to their profits and tax profits where they are made. lack of course is its direct and necessary corollary. the council's responsibility for bringing this progress to a rapid conclusion is therefore immense. but i wonder how long the governments of the member states, and my own belgian government first, will continue to swim in hypocrisy in the face of this shameful, illegal and immoral behaviour. commissioner, we need you to make a difference.
in the digital age, consumers are increasingly faced with the challenge of ensuring that they are properly protected. however, a secure online environment is crucial to strengthen their confidence in online shopping. today, figures show that only 38% of consumers feel it is safe to shop online across borders. so we have to play it short to take the fight to the criminal web dealers. the strengthening of the capacities of the national competent authorities, combined, of course, with crossborder cooperation, will make it easier for the member states to fight this battle. and it's necessary, because these criminal web dealers can move their operations from country to country all too easily. that's why we need to involve all the actors in the process: the commission is also proposing to introduce a european alert system for consumer organisations to raise alarms and to improve information and compensation systems.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i will begin by giving you a number: 37. this is the percentage of websites that do not comply with european consumer protection legislation. the revision of this legislation on cooperation between national authorities responsible for enforcing consumer protection legislation is a welcome development, as national authorities will now have expanded powers adapted to the digital society, adapted to their times, to put an end to the too many online violations of these rights. i would also like to congratulate olga sehnalová, as has already been done, on her excellent work as rapporteur on this subject and i particularly welcome the following progress: real investigative powers for national authorities, the creation of penalties and consumer compensation, the establishment of an alert mechanism and the strengthening of the role of consumer protection associations in this process.
mr president, 730 people have been killed on belgian roads, 4 200 seriously injured. behind the numbers, which are terrible, there are so many tragedies that parents and families experience each year. in europe, more than 25 000 people die in or as a result of driving. this trend is declining - we have said this - but a pressing question remains: how can road safety be improved? the lebrecht koch report on improving vehicle safety, which we have just adopted this afternoon, contains some interesting proposals, for example: the obligation to install intelligent driving safety systems in every new vehicle. it is obviously not enough, we must go further, this is what the organisers of the conference held last friday in brussels on the lisa car project (light and save car, light and safe car) are asking for. it is essential that europe engages with car manufacturers in the production of lighter and less powerful cars and establishes a regulatory framework that genuinely protects the environment and the physical integrity of all road users.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that i am a little disturbed, even worried, by the intervention of our s&d colleague, who seems to minimize the confusion caused by the situation in malta. the cowardly and despicable murder of daphne caruana galizia demands that the european union and beyond the international community act in a determined and urgent way to put an end to illicit financial flows and tax havens. the work of whistleblowers and the media is essential to reveal the scale of tax fraud and evasion. their protection must be legally guaranteed and strengthened throughout the union. i am of course very pleased that we voted in favour of a general protection mechanism at eu level, but we must go further and put in place a legal status for whistleblowers, which could, if necessary, give rise to compensation. one thing that particularly troubles me, mr ferrand, is that - and i regret this - malta has chosen not to participate in the european public prosecutor's office, which brings real added value in protecting the financial interests of the union. once established, it would enable us to strengthen financial fraud investigations and would be able to handle independent investigations. while the protection of the union's financial interests is a shared responsibility of the union and all its member states, i find it shocking, unacceptable that member states can evade their obligations to fight fraud, knowing that they are receiving european aid. i think that the benefit of this aid should be conditional on the participation of these countries in the european public prosecutor's office. i have known you, mr ferrand, and the s&d, to be more vigorous when it came to denouncing the failings of the state in relation to human rights.
madam president, commissioner, my mother was murdered because she, like other journalists, stood between the rule of law and those who violate it, but she was also targeted because she was the only person who did so. this is what happens when the institutions of a state have become incapable. the last person standing is often a journalist. other these are the words used by the son of the maltese investigative journalist daphne caruana galizia, who was killed in the explosion of her car, to describe the murder of his mother. the time you have decided to give me here in this house i wanted to dedicate to her and to all those whistleblowers who risk their lives for what they believe is right. and the fight of this maltese journalist was just, she served the public interest well. in the spring, a well-known american magazine named ms caruana galizia among the 28 personalities who are moving europe, describing her as an entire wikileaks, as a single woman on a crusade against the lack of transparency and corruption in malta. i agree with the statements made by the european commission on this subject, and i too am appalled by this murder. i ask the commission to move beyond mere posture and to act. this vile murder in malta must be the last, let us hope. we look forward to the european commission finally proposing legislation to protect whistleblowers, as the european parliament has suggested in several petitions. finally, we must realize that daphne's disappearance is an attack on freedom of expression, an attack on those who fight for good governance, an attack on all those in europe who fight for more justice. they wanted to kill her to silence her, to make sure that we continue to raise her voice and continue the fight for cleaner practices. justice must be served.
a few weeks ago, i was in eastern ukraine. the immense damage, the stories, but most of all the faces of the people were impressive. sometimes full of confusion, but often full of expectation. from here, this conflict seems over, but for the people there, it's no less true. the russian aggression and repression remain a daily reality. the integrity of other eastern partners is also still under threat. we can expect the eu to play a more active role in this area, because these conflicts also threaten european security. we also need to be honest with our partners. europe is built on the pillars of democracy, the rule of law, solidarity and a well-functioning free market. the power of oligarchs, repression sometimes and corruption are fundamentally opposed to this. yes, progress is being made and visa liberalisation for moldova, georgia and ukraine is the result. but we must ensure that all agreements are implemented. they are not commitments to effort, but commitments to results. the midfield is a key player in this. it must be able to play its full role without being short-circuited. let's get a strong message to the eastern summit. a message of support and partnership, but also of reality and commitment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. if you want to be successful, it is also wise to be realistic in your approach. and that's exactly what we are in this case. we are very ambitious when it comes to international trade and we should be. i come from the flanders region, a small region but a very ambitious region, a very open region, self-confident as well. it is the third most open economy in the world, the logistical gateway to europe. as a region, we must be open because we have to sell our products, our knowledge, worldwide. that is why we are always very cautious when it comes to measures which could be used to promote protectionism, when it comes to measures which could impede trade. so our principles are clear. we're very strong on trade. we're also being realistic. we are realistic and we realise that the globalised economy does not work perfectly, that the playing field is not always fair. goods are being dumped on our european market at artificially low prices, and sometimes of poor quality. and there can be no support for that international trade unless we ensure that we have measures to deal with that effectively too, so that that trade is fair and correct. and then you need instruments that ensure that that fair trade is protected and that you have a level playing field. that is what we are putting on the table here today: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are fair, that fair european competition can be played out in europe and worldwide.
madam president, just a year ago the commission came forward with a first proposal to amend the european anti-dumping law. thanks to the hard work of our colleagues, but also thanks to a common front between the companies and the trade unions, we have succeeded in amending this legislation with a major trilogue. so in the future, when countries or industries resort to unfair practices, the european union will continue to have the possibility of taking calculated anti-dumping measures against third countries. but now - and this is a step forward - social and environmental standards will be taken into account in the assessment of significant distortions. the burden of proof will not be on the industries. the commission will therefore be evaluating and producing a number of reports, and this is also to be welcomed as a year. it is therefore a victory for the future of european industry and we must be able to celebrate its victories. now the fight is not over, because there is a second legislation, the trade defence instruments, which it is important to be able to renew. so we call the council because today there is a certain reluctance on the part of the council to change these trade defence instruments. we know that without this review we will not have the necessary efficiency to be able to protect some sectors of our european industries properly. it is therefore essential that the council act on these matters.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, i would first like to thank and congratulate mr ponga on this dossier and this excellent report. africa and europe are neighbouring continents, and i think that is often forgotten. we are bound by a common history, sometimes painful, sometimes perspective, we share common cultures and languages and i think - i have been arguing for this for a very long time - that africa and europe must forge a common strategy and a genuine and ambitious partnership that definitively abandons paternalism and turns its back on unacceptable forms of neocolonialism, which still too often trample on the heads of some decision-makers. we need a genuine political and economic partnership. this would be beneficial for both europe and africa. the best way would be the economic development of africa. this is why i have always defended the economic partnership agreements. africa is in dire need of a vibrant market economy which could create prosperity by exploiting its immense resources and which could also lift millions of citizens out of poverty and in particular, as one of my colleagues said, the millions of young people who are unemployed and without prospects. but if africa needs market economies, it equally needs strong states that guarantee an equitable distribution of this wealth that would be created. too often, even where there is growth - sometimes even, there was a time, double-digit growth, i think of latin america - poverty does not disappear, because it is concentrated in those who create it selfishly, it must be said. the state must therefore play an important role. we must also become political partners in the geopolitical space. i think it is time to finally meet our financial commitments to developing countries to support policies to support renewable and alternative energy. we need to transfer technology and knowledge, but i really believe that in recent years europe may not have paid enough attention to bonding and really forging an alliance with africa.
i am actually very pleased that we are here tonight to talk about the eu-africa strategy. and as many colleagues have said, i think africa must take matters into its own hands. africa is a fantastic continent: beautiful people, beautiful nature, but unfortunately also full of challenges. a poor continent, a continent that has been hit by many wars, a continent that faces many challenges and has a fantastic explosion, enormous growth. the youth will increase enormously, the population will increase. i think it is good that europe is finally paying more attention to a good strategy. i would like to call for europe to commit itself to ending the conflicts. for me, that's really priority one. two , you 're not . to ensure that the young people in africa have opportunities, education, health care, infrastructure, to ensure that they can get involved in politics, for example, and lastly, very importantly: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for the fight against trafficking in human beings. we know from europol that 90% of asylum seekers reach europe through people smugglers. let's bet on that.
author. investing in nature and biodiversity must be at the heart of a smart, sustainable and inclusive europe. protecting biodiversity is not only necessary for nature itself, but is essential for our well-being and prosperity. for example, one in six jobs in the european union depends on nature and the added value of natura 2000 is many times greater than the costs of management. the erasure of the biodiversity strategy will cost us 50 billion euros a year. stopping biodiversity loss must be a political priority. the birds and habitats directives are a crucial link in this story and must be fully implemented. this is the key message of the biodiversity report that the european parliament adopted in february 2016 and for which i was rapporteur. at the end of 2016, the commission finally removed the uncertainty about the nature directives. the commission also decided that the directives were fit for purpose and that the focus should be on their better and faster implementation. the action plan for nature, people and the economy, which the commission proposed earlier this year, is undoubtedly a step forward. but at the same time, the plan is inadequate and insufficient to meet the biodiversity targets. without additional effort, we'll miss our 2020 appointment again. the environment committee has a number of clear and specific questions and it also wants to send a strong signal about what can and should be improved. the action plan contains only one reference to the biodiversity strategy. how will the commission respond to parliament's more general calls for the 2020 targets to be effectively met? moreover, the action plan only covers the period up to 2020. it's not going to say anything about the period after 2020. what strategy does the commission consider necessary for the period after 2020? funding is also essential. how will the commission ensure that adequate funding is available, also in the next multiannual financial framework? does the commission intend to introduce a traceability mechanism for natura 2000 expenditure in order to improve the transparency, accountability and effectiveness of eu funds, as recommended by the european court of auditors? the action plan also fails to respond to important initiatives which parliament has been calling for for some time. i am thinking of the creation of a transeuropean network for green infrastructure, an eu initiative for pollinators and measures against illegal bird killing, to name a few. when will the commission make its proposals on this subject? finally, the coherence between biodiversity policy and other areas such as the common agricultural policy, as well as cohesion policy, remains a major challenge. how does the commission intend to increase this coherence? how does the commission intend to integrate natura 2000 and wider biodiversity measures into these areas? how does the commission intend to monitor the impact of the common agricultural policy on biodiversity? we expect not only concrete answers from the commission but also a clear commitment. a lot of valuable time has been lost and the clock is ticking. for the health, well-being and prosperity of future generations, we must do everything possible to protect nature and biodiversity. it goes without saying that this requires the commitment of all the actors. biodiversity is everyone's business. if you leave the green theme in blue, you will be catapulting europe into the iron age.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to ask mr legutko why he doesn’t stay for the debate. (mr legutko left the chamber)why are you leaving, mr legutko? because i have something to say to you. i have to say something to you. your attack on mr lewandowski i find outrageous. (interjections from the floor)if there is one sensible, reasonable, colleague of ours, sometimes even a little bit boring, then it is mr lewandowski. and to say that he has lost his senses, well, i think it is the polish government that has lost its senses and not mr lewandowski. (applause) mr president, on saturday 60 000 fascists marched in the streets of warsaw – neo-nazis, white supremacists – and i’m not talking about charlottesville in america, i’m talking about warsaw, poland, 300 km more or less from auschwitz and birkenau. well, i have to tell you, i thought that it should never happen in europe, and that it should never happen also in poland; certainly not in poland, because we do not have to give lessons to poland. that’s not the point. it’s the place where, before magna carta, before habeas corpus, there were free cities, a beacon of creativity and of freedom. it is the country that liberated itself from two authoritarianisms, from fascism and communism, and they did it alone. and at the same time it is also, since their entrance into the european union, a country that was really at the heart of central and eastern european democracy, and moreover also of economic growth, before germany. so there is nothing to say about poland – we are not attacking poland. what we are attacking and what is being said is that over the last two years there has been a government, and behind that government there is a personality, mr kaczyński, who thinks that he can copy someone – and i apologise to the ppe group – namely mr orbán, who also thinks that he has to establish illiberal states everywhere in the european union. to copy mr orbán is, i think, not in the interests of poland and polish society and polish citizens. and that is the point of our intervention today. and unfortunately, in this case, we will ask you, mr president, to activate article 7 – and not, i have to tell you very clearly, to punish any polish citizens. that is not the point. my proposal is even that, when we have sanctions, the european money should go directly to polish cities, to polish civil societies and to polish citizens, because we can never allow polish citizens to be the victims of this reactionary agenda of the polish government and of mr kaczyński. (applause) (the speaker declined to answer a blue-card question from ms gosiewska)
mr president of the european union, are you not ashamed to call the polish people to account here? that proud european people has shown us the way to the exit from communism at a time when you, mr timmermans, as a good socialist, probably still thought that the empire of the soviet union and its satellites should be respected. the proud polish people are once again teaching us how not to play into the hands of the european union. at the same time, the spanish kingdom is treating the catalan people in a brutal and medieval way, with methods reminiscent of the way the spanish inquisition in the 16th century wanted to keep the netherlands, including my own flanders, under spanish rule against their will. aren't you ashamed, ladies and gentlemen? i'm a follower of william of orange. for god's sake, stop this hypocrisy, shame on you and get the hell out of here.
commissioner, i have followed the presentation of the second mobility package with mixed feelings. yes, there are some interesting proposals. but i'm not convinced that the package provides enough leverage to meet our climate commitments. by 2030, our member states must drastically reduce emissions from the transport sector. without the technology, we can't do that. the commission should therefore have proposed stricter co2 standards for 2025 and 2030. i therefore regret that you have not made the most of the only instrument you have to encourage investment and innovation. these investments are essential if we want the eu to be an innovative economy that can compete with other major economic powers. but i told you: the commission has also made a number of interesting proposals, for example on the competitiveness of combined transport and a sound infrastructure for alternative fuels. only through a modal shift and a switch to green cars will our mobility become cleaner. the ball is now in the court of the european parliament. the glass is half full as far as i am concerned, and i want to get on with this package as soon as possible because i see room for improvement.
the commissioner said that the commission's proposal was a good one, but that it was not enough. i have seen this in practice in my work on biodiversity policy, waste legislation and emission standards. we must therefore increase our efforts to improve implementation, otherwise our strict standards will turn out to be mere paper tigers. the new eir instrument launched by the commission can play an important role in this and deserves all the support. of course, everything can always be better. the commission's environment committee has made a number of recommendations. firstly, the eir must not be a purely technical instrument. she also has to feed the political discussion. for example, a fixed item on the council's agenda on the implementation of environmental legislation would be a step forward. secondly, it is essential that regional and local authorities are fully involved. as a flemish mep, i cannot stress this enough. finally, i would like to make a further contribution to the exchange of best practice. we need to not reinvent the hot water system over and over again, but to make full use of existing expertise and innovative solutions.
on behalf of the group of the european right thank you, mr president. i fully agree, ladies and gentlemen, that greater equality and upward convergence must be a priority. great inequality hurts us all. it is a drag on economic growth and employment. but the way in which this report proposes to tackle inequality is wrong. first, the answer to inequality is not ever-increasing europeanization. the rapporteur wants, for example, a european minimum income scheme, a european unemployment scheme, a european directive on work-life balance, and so on. the report does not respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. when member states are faced with the problem of social cohesion, they cannot - especially given the scarcity of resources - take sufficient account of the needs of their own citizens. the inevitable consequence of this is that we are alienating the citizen from europe even further. do we want that? secondly, i regret the repeated condemnation of atypical work. no, we absolutely must not create working arms. but having a job is still the best guarantee against poverty. atypical employment contracts allow people who otherwise would not be able to work to get a job. creating flexibility in the labour market creates opportunities and i am a strong believer in giving people opportunities, of course in combination with a good social safety net where necessary. finally, i regret that the youth employment initiative fails to help young people to find work in a structural way and leads to the opposite. it is a very important step towards the creation of a european employment strategy, which is a key element in the european union's strategy for employment. we need just focused and fundamental solutions to boost job creation and growth. i regret that the report has taken a different path. thank you, sir.
in writing. on friday 17 november, the presidents of the european commission, the european parliament and the council will sign a proclamation to establish the european pillar of social rights. equal opportunities, better access to the labour market, fair working conditions, increased social protection and inclusion are the different objectives that the european commission and the member states will have to pursue together. if the signing of this proclamation is a first step in the right direction, it will have to be accompanied by legislative initiatives at european and member state levels, as well as new financial means to achieve these objectives. otherwise, this foundation will find its place in the cabinet of beautiful promises. i am therefore pleased that parliament has voted largely in favour of this report on combating inequalities, which in my view contains many initiatives to be implemented within the framework of this european pillar of social rights. now let us turn these promises into concrete actions to improve the well-being of all european citizens.
the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of negotiating the agreement on the european union. three and a half long years. our farmers have always been told: this crisis is temporary. it's the fourth damn crop we can't export to russia. it's not temporary anymore. it's structural. it's time to change the shoulder gun. the fruit growers have a structural problem. but you, commissioner, also have a structural problem if you want to keep your promise to support farmers. i think we should open our wallets to compensate our farmers for the damage they have suffered. they're the victims. we must also focus on structural solutions. because it is not the will and the labour of our farmers. the commissioner: many farmers are very happy. there are dramas. i do a lot of field trips. a lot of companies are on the verge of bankruptcy. farmers live in poverty. and what 's worse: in my area, many commit suicide. in our case, 60% of the conference peers went directly to russia. we cannot make up for that with small exports to new markets. i therefore ask you, commissioner, to move from temporary measures to solid structural measures. i'll help you with that. i hope that after this debate parliament will adopt a resolution in which we insist on real compensation for the damage suffered. i also urge an action plan for new markets. i would like you to speak to commissioner malmström about a real action plan to promote our fruit. we europeans can be proud of the best fruit and vegetables. let's promote that, too. i know that the european council is imposing sanctions on russia, but i would like you to speak to mrs mogherini to improve our agricultural relations with russia. thank you.
the russian boycott has indeed dealt a severe blow to the fruit and vegetable sector. for our flemish growers - and i am thinking in particular of the perennial growers - it is a disaster. in order to absorb this initial shock, to guarantee income for farmers and to ensure continuity, crisis support is absolutely necessary. but a structural solution is not. especially when we know that a resumption of exports to russia is not for tomorrow. you mentioned the figures, commissioner. so far, 1.7 million tonnes of fruit and vegetables have been bought up for many tens of millions of euros. i must say, and many people agree with me, that i find it difficult to accept that for that money quality products end up as compost or animal feed or are not harvested. that is a matter of concern to everyone, and first and foremost to the growers themselves. i therefore prefer that we devote our resources to exploring new markets, to introducing and promoting strong quality labels, to selling our fruit rather than destroying it, and to thinking about alternative models that do not encourage overproduction and waste. there 's only one condition for that: the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to provide a single market for the whole of the eu, with the cooperation of all parties - politicians, growers, exporters, processors and consumers.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, farmers are the victims of this embargo. the european intervention was welcome, but often insufficient to cover the costs of high-quality production, with the conférence peer in mind. it costs more to produce a porsche than, with all due respect, a lada. secondly, a market of 130 million consumers doesn't just replace you. pigs keep growing, dairy cows keep producing milk, and the growth of lettuce, potatoes or apples is not just going to stop. the result: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem. for pears, for example, this rises to 25 percent. whether it is ukraine, russia or brexit, the farmer is always being presented with the bill. fortunately, our farmers are creative. some have invested in other varieties. it has been tailored to a growing middle class in asia and south america and the increasing demand for fruits and vegetables there. it worked. this year, for the first time, more than 10 million kilograms of belgian apples reached the indian market. but it is also of the utmost importance that we learn from our mistakes. if 40 percent of your exports go to one country, like russia, you know you're taking a risk. however, not all sectors learn at the same rate. the pork quota that went to russia is going to china today. we are giving one country the power to plunge our pig sector back into crisis with the snap of a finger. my suggestions to you, commissioner hogan, are therefore clear. please continue your structural policy, because yes, mrs vautmans, there is indeed a structural policy. continue to support exports, but take into account the needs of each sector. evaluate trade by sector and then open new outlets by sector. learning to diversify and invest, that's my credo.
member of the commission. – madam president, i thank all of the speakers who have responded to the questions initiated by mr siekierski. in relation to the russian embargo, you can hear from the members of the committee on foreign affairs here this evening – for which we are grateful that they attended, including the chair, mr mcallister, and the rapporteur, mr preda – that there is a difficulty in relation to lifting the embargo and the russian sanctions are going to remain in place. this is going to have a knock-on effect of retaliatory measures on the russian part in respect of farming and agricultural products. i do not see any political sign that this policy on russia that we have in the european union at the moment is going to change politically. if it changes, it changes everything, but we have to be realistic that politically it is not likely to change in the short term. mr valcárcel siso was not reflecting on what i said in my contribution when i outlined all of the measures that are being taken within the budgetary framework available. eur 490 million has been allocated in the last three years. i have extended the measures until the end of june 2018 and we will review the situation again then. we have increased the rate of aid for the withdrawal of products from the marketplace since last july under the delegated acts. these are the issues that we have been improving. on ms petir’s notion that we need to have a crisis fund outside of the budgetary position, we have had a crisis fund of eur 1.5 billion mobilised for all sectors outside of the existing cap budget. i am sure you noticed this in relation to all of your sectors in terms of your farmers. this was a significant amount of additional money that ms georgieva – the vice-president of the commission at the time – and i were able to mobilise for the farming community, and member states were able to do more on top of that. i take note of the fact that we have not sufficiently replaced the markets that were available in russia from the fruit and vegetable sector. we have not been able to achieve the type of market options around the world to replace that particular market for fruit and vegetables. therefore, there are no initiatives on promotion to target the food and vegetable sector which i am prepared to look at. i do not want to give anybody the impression that i have not been doing anything in relation to the marketplace. i have been to china twice on trade missions, japan twice, canada, mexico, colombia, saudi arabia and iran last week, vietnam and indonesia, and i have been promoting all european products, including fruit and vegetable products, on trade missions and to companies throughout that time. i am probably the first commissioner to get outside the office and into the marketplace to try and replace some of the markets that were lost at the time of the russian embargo, and i am very happy to be able to do so. in relation specifically to structural solutions, i certainly hear what ms vautmans has said in relation to the belgian situation – that structural solutions are required. but in addition to the measures that i have already outlined and that we are implementing, i will certainly be prepared to consider what the belgian government is prepared to do in terms of state aids, in terms of modifying the rural development programme, for example, if it wants to look at structural solutions. in response to other members here that have mentioned that, certainly if there are structural proposals that we can look at, we will look at them in the context of modification of our rural development programmes. that is an option that is open to them. it is an option to look at state aid provisions within the ceilings of eur 15 000 per farmer as well. we are allocating and promoting fruit and vegetables in various ways, not just through our promotion programmes, but through our school schemes as well. an extra eur 50 million in addition to the original cap budget was mobilised last year, arising from the decision that was made here to promote our school schemes, which include fruit and vegetables. i had the pleasure of visiting pc fruit with ivo belet mep and tom vandenkendelaere mep. i was looking at the excellent work that pc fruit is doing there, looking at options and varieties and new consumer tastes and patterns in order to find new markets. some of the markets that we have had in the past, the products perhaps may not be suitable anymore in relation to these particular consumer markets, and we have to look at options and consider helping in the research area with companies like pc fruit in order to develop alternatives in terms of consumer tastes and to promote those types of new products. i agree that we have not solved the problem in relation to fruit and vegetables arising from the russian embargo. i respect the sentiments that have been expressed in relation to that here tonight, but i am also being open about the fact that solutions are not going to be easy, particularly the ones that involve removing the sanctions, which had the consequence of stopping the export of our products to the russian market. but i do not accept, mr marias, that i did nothing. you know i did a lot for your country as well over a period of time. maybe i will give you the full details in relation to what i did for greek agriculture in the last three years, including in the fruit and vegetable area, and you might be surprised.
in writing. the support measures for fruit growers should remain in force until a diplomatic solution is found with russia. we thank commissioner hogan for his working visit to the fruit test centre in the limburg area. the commissioner also confirmed that the aid measures would remain in force for the coming years. the aid measures are beginning to bear fruit. the commission has indeed worked to tap into new markets in mexico, india, japan and canada. we fully support this approach, but we also ask the commission to step up the pace to strengthen the position of flemish fruit growers. we also call for support for investments in the context of the fruit sector's shift towards innovative and sustainable fruit varieties. innovation and research in the fruit and vegetable sector are crucial in view of the upcoming negotiations on the eu's new multiannual financial framework. as european christian democrats we do not want the agricultural budget to be cut back, but rather to see more money allocated to invest in sustainable and innovative farming techniques. we hope that the other political parties will support this strategy.
author. last month, somalia was hit by two horrific bombings, leaving 400 dead, hundreds injured and dozens missing. i am glad we are addressing that this morning. all too often, terrorist attacks in africa are a minor footnote. so today, let us offer our condolences to the victims and their families. somalia is a country that is already having a very difficult time. it suffers from drought, malnutrition and conflict. over a million people have been displaced. what worries me most is the increase in violence and extremism, including among children. we must do something about it. we must take steps to fight impunity so that perpetrators are punished. we also need to focus on the rehabilitation of child soldiers. children are meant to play, not fight. we have to stop child soldiers from being recruited by criminals. we have to see if the displaced can return, because more than a million people in somalia have been displaced. let's bet on that. finally, we must, as europe, fulfil our humanitarian commitments. let us work together to make somalia a country where children can play, grow up healthy and have food. thank you, sir.
in writing. our delegation regrets the heavy toll taken by the attack in mogadishu on 14 october. somalia has been strangled by extremist violence for years. attacks, executions and kidnappings dominate the daily life of the people. but with this latest attack, the brutality reached an absolute low: 358 innocent civilians were killed and many hundreds were injured. we must never become accustomed to terror. nor in somalia. we therefore call on the international community to help the country in its fight against terrorism and thus pave the way to peace and stability.
author. madam president, mr commissioner, with one year to go until the presidential and legislative elections, all the elements of a pre- and post-electoral crisis are present: the seizure of all levers of power, the suppression of freedoms for non-governmental parties, a lack of good governance with a very high level of corruption and embezzlement of public funds, arbitrary imprisonment, harassment of journalists, including investigative journalists, and human rights and environmental defenders, failure to respect the principle of separation of powers, state interference in judicial affairs, extrajudicial executions, popular justice in the face of impunity of certain public security officers. mr jordi solé has already mentioned the case of clovis razafimalala, and i shall not go into that. there is another case, that of mr ravela, who was given a two-year suspended prison sentence just for daring to ask for proof that a chinese mining company had been granted the mining and environmental permits necessary to continue its activities. this resolution is very timely indeed. she couldn't be tough enough.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, we must speak the truth. the budget proposed for our vote is tight, if not narrow, particularly as regards commitment appropriations. the budget for 2018 is only 282 million higher than in 2017, with a total amount of 160 billion in commitments, which is significantly lower than inflation. however, the combined efforts of our president, mr jean arthuis, our two rapporteurs, mr siegfried mureşan and mr richard ashworth, and commissioner oettinger, to whom i extend my sincere congratulations, have led to substantial improvements over the original council proposal, which explains why my group voted unanimously in favour of it. like my colleagues, i particularly welcome the additional resources allocated to research, young people and smes. i also welcome the modest but real increase in the resources allocated to the youth employment initiative and the unilateral commitment by the commission to table an amending budget in the event of increased needs. i welcome the additional resources obtained to meet the objective of devoting 20% of the current multiannual financial framework to the fight against global warming in accordance with the international commitments that have been made. i would also like to welcome the additional resources that have been obtained in the fight against terrorism by strengthening the operational capacities of europol and eurojust. similarly, by providing more resources to easo, the 2018 budget strengthens one of the key instruments for the implementation of a genuine common policy on asylum and migration management. i also welcome - as do many of our colleagues - the increase in appropriations for the stratcom programme, the european union's strategic communication programme for third countries. at a time when free and democratic information is threatened by fake news and propaganda from certain foreign powers, it is important and essential to react. finally, there is a reduction in appropriations which i want to publicly welcome. this is a reduction of 105 million and the setting aside of a further 70 million in the preaccession appropriations for turkey. it is legitimate and urgent to make it clear to mr erdoğan that the european union does not subsidize authoritarian excesses or attacks on the rule of law and freedom of expression. that said, i would also like to express publicly some of the more personal reasons for my dissatisfaction. i particularly regret that a proposal put forward on my initiative by the parliament's delegation was not accepted in the conciliation. it was a joint statement by the three institutions asking the commission to consider proposing new legal and financial instruments to help victims of terrorist acts and their families. i also regret that it does not take better account of the real needs of certain institutions, for example the court of justice of the european union. on a budget of 160 billion, i find it difficult to understand the refusal to approve the 1.5 million appropriations requested and justified by the court, or 0.000009 % of the total budget of the union. in conclusion, madam president, the experience of recent years leads me to believe that the current multiannual financial framework is a corset that freezes the distribution of resources in favour of existing policies and makes it more difficult to make room for new policies. it is therefore urgent and necessary that the future multiannual financial framework should allow for greater flexibility both within and between the headings, and should relax the conditions for mobilising the flexibility instruments. such a change is necessary, with new own resources, to face the future. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is 'blue card'. i have no intention and no one here has any intention of milking the british cow. you've paid your share, as we all have. and if you have listened to me correctly, i did not advocate an increase - i would say an unjustified increase - in the budget of the european union, since i accept and ask my group to agree to an increase in the 2018 budget compared to the 2017 budget, which is below inflation. so if you don't mind, i'll spare you the remarks.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his statement on the state of play on the energy union. i think it is always interesting to take some time for that, and in my time today i just want to convey one message. i want you to pay a lot of attention to the strong message this parliament’s committee on industry, research and energy gave yesterday. we had a very important vote on two very important files. there was a clear majority, supported by nearly all groups in the house, to raise the level of ambition on the deployment of renewable energy in our union to a target of 35% by 2030 –that is 80% above the target in the commission’s proposal. our high level of ambition on renewables takes fully into account the recent spectacular cost reduction in solar panels and offshore wind. the international renewable energy agency (irena) has calculated that the eu can double its renewables share from 17% to 35% in 2030 in a cost-neutral way. if we accelerate our energy efficiency policies renewables can even deliver a higher share of remaining energy demands. this was also voted for yesterday with a less broad majority, a smaller majority. we voted for a 40% target on energy efficiency. i would like to ask the commission to pick the side of parliament because up until now the commission has come up with too weak proposals because of the situation in the council. now we have the opportunity, dear commissioner, to take up full responsibility and ambition and take the side of parliament.
"yemen is one of the worst places on the planet to be a child today", said the unicef regional director. the strategy game of the big players in the region, iran and saudi arabia, is also the horror of the small ones, the citizens of yemen. it is good that international pressure is being increased to put an end to the blockades, the famine, the health crises and the human rights violations. but it would be much better if we took responsibility at home as well. when do we stop the arms deliveries? i am ashamed to say that i am looking at my own member state first and foremost: in belgium, arms exports are the responsibility of the länder. the walloon government supplied eur 576 million worth of arms to saudi arabia in 2015, the year that country started its war in yemen. wallonia, the belgian state which blocked the trade agreement with canada, approved 25 new arms deliveries last month, worth €1.8 billion! do you understand that? i did not! i'm ashamed and i'm angry. this hypocrisy undermines the credibility of our member states and of the european union!
the rapporteur. as 3 december is the international day of persons with disabilities, i would like to be able to discuss in this house my report on the implementation of the european disability strategy in this plenary session. i want to thank all the shadow reporters and the secretariat very much for wanting to meet this deadline with me. it's so important that we keep thinking about constraints and keep inclusion on the political agenda. after all, people with disabilities are not the sexiest agenda item, and very few politicians like to talk about it. and this is despite the fact that one in six people has some degree of disability. that is 80 million europeans! can we really afford to ignore this large group of european citizens? i am speaking of citizens, because that is what they are: european citizens. they should therefore be able to enjoy the same rights as everyone else. the right and freedom to go to school, work, go out to dinner, go to the theatre or the cinema. the right to travel abroad and enjoy their leisure time with family and friends. people with disabilities should not be treated as second-class citizens because of their disability. mr. president, i would like to ask everyone to please keep in mind that not every person with a disability is as fortunate as i am. they are not always able to tap into their full potential, take the job that they want, live where and how they want or even marry who they want. the eu is effectively one of the most advanced and richest regions on the planet, yet it is not inclusive enough. we unfortunately still manage to exclude so many of our citizens on a regular basis. the result is that we are losing out on valuable skills and potential labour force in the process, while they are more than ready and willing to contribute to our society when given the opportunity. let's not forget that money is lost due to inaccessible infrastructures, goods and services. therefore, the european disability strategy 2010-2020 is an essential tool in ensuring all our citizens are able to form an integral part of our society and contribute to our society. we need a post-2020 strategy to follow up and it needs to be both bold and effective, because if we don't get it right who will? it's time for action. let us all work together to make the european union more inclusive.
i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and the other members for their constructive input in today's debate. we all agree that europe must become more accessible in all areas that are really important to all of us, and therefore not just to people with disabilities, but to all of us. that means accessible education, employment, training, public transport, you name it, zoning, shops, media, the internet, goods and services. i would also like to mention erasmus+. we must not forget that the european union and almost all the member states of the european union have ratified the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. but that's not enough. there must be action. here in this house, many fine words have been spoken about equal opportunities, equal rights for disabled people and also about the importance of inclusion for every disabled person. many member states recognize this, but let's face it: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. in the united states, people with disabilities can go to school, they can get a job, they can get help to walk into a store, they can go to the bank. they can go to the cinema, to a museum, to a sports stadium; the list is endless. they can do so without barriers. but if we look at europe, the situation is sometimes crying foul. a lot of people can only dream of this place. the european union is a great example of this. not accessible! why this backwardness here compared with the united states? i think we should be more ambitious. people with disabilities still face many obstacles in europe. in the united states, they have long since been eliminated. why can't we do this here? why are those barriers still there? - aren't these people part of it? i think we should be brave enough to face the problems. you know that december 3rd is international day of persons with disabilities. so here's my question to you: put yourself in those people's shoes for a day. blindfold yourself, put earplugs in your ears, borrow a wheelchair and then come back and tell me why people with disabilities still face so many barriers. we can make a difference for them in europe. not just words, but actions! the adoption of my report will enable us to insist on its implementation in the member states and in the council and the commission. i think we must send a clear signal to the commission, the council and the member states that everyone counts. people with disabilities are also full citizens of europe!
the measures we are voting on tomorrow will really make a difference to farmers today. firstly - and this is very important - the member states will have the opportunity to give young farmers a boost. and that's what's needed. the number of active farmers is declining. there is no future for the farmer without young farmers. so more money for beginning farmers can really make a difference. second important point: the position of the farmer in the food chain. no fair price without a stronger position for the farmer. the agreement now allows the creation of producer organisations in all sectors. in the fruit and vegetable sector, we see that this approach really works. thirdly, and to conclude, there is this concern: the commission has already made a number of proposals. if the definition of an 'active farmer' is made optional, this would open the door to the misuse of the european agricultural cent, and undermine the agricultural policy. agricultural land used as a recreational area does not deserve a penny of aid. young, active farmers deserve it.
the european parliament, the council and the commission have adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment by the placing on the market of certain dangerous substances. moreover, emissions are also increasing. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the paris agreement and its implementation in the medium term. flights within europe have been covered by the european emissions trading system since 2012. for international flights, that exception to the rule still applies. the text before us is to extend that exception for the very last time. we are giving the global icao agreement every chance of success, but we are not writing a blank cheque. the clear end date for the international flight exception keeps the pressure on the icao boiler and a stick behind the door. i would like to congratulate mrs girling on her thoughtful approach. the nva delegation will support the agreement in its entirety.
i think we can all agree that we need to make every effort possible on climate. at the same time, we must ensure that the european aviation sector, which is an important part of our economy, remains competitive. i am very aware of the importance of airports to the local economy and to the national economy, as i come from zaventem. i therefore insist that we must always strike a good balance between our environmental ambitions and the preservation of the competitiveness of our aviation sector. the aim must not be to reduce the use of the 21st century means of transport. that's why we need to invest in r&d that makes the aviation sector more efficient and greener. i therefore support the following: the revenues generated from auctioning of emission allowances should be used to invest in research. following the example of the clean sky programme, this investment in research will give our aviation industry a long-term competitive advantage and will be a new weapon in the fight against climate change.
as a member of the eu-kazakhstan parliamentary cooperation committee, i welcome this debate. cooperation between the european parliament and the central asian states is important in order to promote political dialogue and economic and cultural interaction. the eu-kazakhstan partnership agreement of 2015 contributed to international and regional peace, stability and economic development. moreover, cooperation is structured around international obligations. kazakhstan is a strategic partner in the energy sector. the eu is kazakhstan's most important trading partner. however, work remains on democracy, despite recent positive developments in constitutional and administrative reforms and kazakhstan's cooperation with the venice commission. this is why this agreement is so important, because human rights and the rule of law are at its core. we also note that through international human rights instruments, but also through funds in the period 2014-2020, more than 1 billion euros will go to central asia for, among other things, improving the rule of law.
tax evasion is a criminal offence, tax avoidance is not. in principle, everyone has the right to pay as little tax as possible as long as he stays within the bounds of the law. the crux of the problem is that, although every individual and every company has the same rights, they do not have the same opportunities. an sme in west flanders simply cannot afford appleby's services. this is what i call class taxation. the panama papers and then the paradise papers revealed the extent of this. now we have to make the political choice for tax justice, and we have to do it together. the recommendations put forward by the pana committee are necessary, but as long as the member states do not follow the logic of fair taxation, the fight will continue with one arm. the commissioner also mentioned it in his introduction. the commission and especially the council must be involved. as a government, it is important to establish a legal framework without legal loopholes and with transparency as the main guiding principle. but a government must also know its limitations. we're not gonna win anything with a manhunt. nor is it a political game between member states. ladies and gentlemen, our reputation as a european parliament is at stake here. i therefore urge everyone to be aware of the impact that our recommendations will have. we must be ambitious, but we must not lose ourselves in unrealistic, populist proposals. the member states must be convinced and not pitted against each other. if we fail to do so, the member states will blindly follow the logic of the multinationals and they will be the winners in the end.
mr president, the masks are finally falling off. the first step was last tuesday, when the member states approved a list of tax havens that was completely distorted: no sanction, no eu member states concerned, no precise monitoring mechanism for switzerland, jersey or the cayman islands, for example. the united states, on the other hand, is not even mentioned. the second stage is unfolding before our eyes. we see a right wing that wants to weaken a text that contains, finally, consistent proposals to combat the scourge of money laundering and tax evasion. the third stage is the attitude of some member states in their internal politics, starting with my own country, belgium, whose right-wing federal government is dragging its feet in implementing in practice several anti-money laundering provisions relating to beneficial owners. so there is indeed a deep hypocrisy among conservatives between the indignation that follows every leak and the weakness of the acts that are put forward. so i hope that everyone will vote for all the elements of this text, otherwise those who vote against will be responsible for the next tax scandal.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, first of all, congratulations to the two co-rapporteurs, mr bullmann and mr fernandes, on the quality of their work. the funding agreement was an incredible obstacle course, the outcome of which i welcome. unlike mr kölmel, i would say that the juncker fund is a good instrument, although it needs to be improved. he pursues good goals and produces good results. in my country belgium , the volume of financing is currently €1.2 billion, which should ultimately generate €5.8 billion of additional investment. sixteen infrastructure and innovation projects have already been approved and more than 4 400 smes are expected to benefit. a good instrument that pursues good objectives and produces good results deserves to be extended and improved. i therefore welcome the decision to extend the juncker fund for three years, i welcome the target of 500 billion for total investment to be leveraged and i welcome the improvements to the initial mechanism to make it more efficient. the addition of new sectors eligible for efsi funding will enable more innovative smes to benefit from it in the fields of agriculture, climate change, cultural and creative industries, and the social and solidarity economy. the improvement of the advisory and assistance system will enable the fund to respond more effectively to the realities on the ground and to support projects in all regions of europe. the commission will also assess the impact of the new rules on the investment commitments of the eib and the eib group. in short, my group will vote for this report with conviction.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, it is very nice to see a full house here. it is a very important moment because, once you vote in favour of the extension of efsi, it means that you will raise its firepower up to half a trillion euros by the end of 2020. it is a significant tool for improving europe’s competitiveness and for increasing the number of jobs. i must say that the biggest challenge we still have with efsi is the lack of awareness. (the president called for silence)many companies, many regions, many municipalities and authorities have never heard of efsi, even though we have been communicating massively. if you look at the countries and regions which have benefited the most from efsi you can see that local authorities, and also private banks and meps, have been actively promoting the opportunities which efsi can offer. i can give you some examples of very active meps. i am sorry not to mention them all but, for instance, ms spyraki from greece, mr kelly from ireland, mr gualtieri from italy, ms kaili from greece and ms maydell from bulgaria have organised a significant number of events promoting efsi opportunities for local entrepreneurs and local authorities. i encourage you strongly to promote this good example. the second point i want to make is that efsi has not created a division between east and west. (the president called for silence)if you look at the list of the countries which use efsi most, estonia, bulgaria, greece, portugal, and spain are the first five, then you have finland, latvia, lithuania, italy, poland, france and croatia. so, efsi can be used everywhere but it depends on the activism of local authorities and entrepreneurs, and also meps, as to how well informed people are of the opportunities. i would like to stress the importance of combining efsi opportunities with structural funds because this would further expand the opportunities for cohesion countries to use efsi. my final point is that, since efsi is a demand driven fund, it is not the medicine for all diseases. we have to make sure that companies working in the circular economy field, in artificial intelligence, in agriculture and forestry, and in energy efficiency, to mention just a few areas, use more efsi financing, because it can give better opportunities to invest in new innovations. i would like, once again, to thank this house for the fruitful cooperation. commission statement as a result of the political agreement between the european parliament and the council on the financing of efsi 2.0 an amount of eur 275 million will be redeployed from cef financial instruments, which represents a reduction of eur 225 million in comparison with the commission proposal. the commission confirms that the financial programming will be revised to reflect the corresponding eur 225 million increase of the cef programme. in the framework of the annual budgetary procedures for the years 2019-2020 the commission will make the appropriate proposals to ensure an optimal allocation of this amount within the cef programme.
in writing. we are voting today on the interinstitutional agreement which aims to double the duration and the capacity of the european investment plan to provide assistance. this flagship initiative of the juncker commission was launched in late 2014 to evolve the eu's policy priorities after the financial crisis by focusing on a boost to investment in europe. today's vote aims to pursue it in such a way as to increase its impact to €500 billion by 2020 (and €630 billion by 2022). i would remind you that since autumn 2015, support of eur 250 billion has been provided to more than 500 000 enterprises, thus creating 690 000 new jobs. i welcome the fact that in this new version the criteria for additionality have been strengthened, so that projects which would not receive any, or only a small amount of, funding can be selected. it remains to focus it even more on those member states which need it most. i also welcome the opportunity to support innovative projects in the cultural industries and in the economy and social infrastructure. i can only stress the need to invest again and again in the social sector! it's an emergency.
we have heard a long debate here on the situation in afghanistan. we held that conference last year and we all see that the situation has not really improved. europe is one of the biggest donors, so we have an important role to play there. colleagues, two or three weeks ago i spent an hour and a half talking to a young afghan refugee boy who had been smuggled into europe by human traffickers. the story of his journey - if i must tell it here - is through bone and marrow. smuggled in the trunk of a car, spent days in turkey over the mountains, children murdered on the way, adults murdered. we should be betting on these people smugglers. we need to make sure we can fight it. moreover, we must of course ensure that the situation in afghanistan is normalized and that people can build their lives in peace with good economic support. that is our responsibility, colleagues.
organized, coordinated and systematic, are the words used in a report by the un human rights office to describe the attacks by the burmese army and buddhist groups on the rohingya. since august, ethnic cleansing has driven 620 000 rohingya to flee to bangladesh. they left behind burned-out villages and murdered relatives. the declaration of intent between bangladesh and myanmar on their repatriation is a step forward, but it also raises questions. and, mrs mogherini, you referred to it in your own statement: how will the repatriation proceed? where will these people be resettled and how will they be received in a country that has left them behind for decades? can you do that in a... in a dignified way? look, there's only one real human solution to this crisis. provide the rohingya with a legal and secure status by giving them a nationality. we cannot accept that people have to live as outcasts because of their religion or their background or whatever. i sincerely thank you, mrs mogherini, for your efforts. and i ask you to continue to care for the fate of these people.
mrs mogherini, you are right to say: "we must link this horrible situation to stories and faces". well, i'll give you one: shadi babiran, a 16-year-old girl, was killed. one day the army will enter the village. they kill the people, they burn the houses down, and she's kidnapped along with other girls. you've heard those stories, too. raped for hours, kicked until she passed out. that girl's childhood has been taken from her. actually, it's too quiet for me anyway. the un says nothing. our nobel prize winner is not making a sound. and i think europe is too quiet, too. you said: i was there, there is an agreement, but the european council did not pay any attention to it. i think we should do more. there's a genocide going on. let's get some real action. enforce the arms embargo, advocate for the removal of land mines, ensure that the guilty are punished. let's make sure the kids there get their youth back.
i am very pleased, mrs mogherini, that in the year of the 60th anniversary of the treaty of rome we are able to take very concrete steps forward in our common security and defence policy. and let's be honest, this was necessary, desperately necessary, because if we just counted, we, the 28 countries, together, spent 45% of the us defence budget with an output - you said it yourself - of only 15%. then we all know that we can do so much more and so much better when we do it together. in the last two years, we've made more progress than in the last 30 years. this is of course the result of the security challenges at our borders, but also of the election and the statements of president trump. of course, brexit will also play a part. i am particularly pleased, mrs mogherini, with pesco. we say in our country: "the sleeping beauty has awakened". investing together, researching together, developing together, deploying together. that is what europe can and must do. very concrete projects with 25 countries together. but we would not be alde, and i would not be i, if i did not want to be even more ambitious. mrs mogherini, i have said it many times here: "i have a dream". i have a dream that within 10 years we will have a european army instead of what are probably 27 national armies. i hope you'll help me pull that cart. go for it! you have our support. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. let me first and foremost, of course, reply that i still greatly regret that your country is leaving the european union and that i am also convinced that the new, young generation in britain will want to come back to europe within ten years. i am convinced of that and i hope so. and secondly, what i say to those neutral countries is very, very simple. we are going to be working with 25 of the 28 countries on very concrete projects that will also benefit their security.
247 executions in the first half of this year, including 3 women, 3 children and 12 public executions. the un report on iran reads like a thriller. the last name to be added to the list of people awaiting execution is that of ahmadreza djalali. doctor, european citizen, father, husband. he was a doctor. he is also known in my country for his guest lectures on medicine at the free university of brussels. sentenced to death on the basis of dubious evidence. his lawyer failed to file an appeal that makes his execution enforceable. i quote the rector of the vub today in the flemish press: "as a passionate doctor and a driven expert in disaster medicine, he had only one motivation: saving people's lives. today, his own life hangs in the balance. and there is no physician that can save him". that is why, mrs mogherini, i am making this urgent appeal, an emotional appeal: use all your influence, use the levers you have to save this man's life! the nuclear deal with iran must not blind you to the horrendous human rights violations, because that would amount to culpable omission and complicity.
since the nuclear deal, it has remained practically deafeningly silent on the numerous human rights violations in iran. i want to talk about the numbers here today. since last 4 years, executions have doubled. in 2016, we're talking about 567 executions. i would like to mention one name today, that of a doctor and visiting lecturer at the vub in brussels, ahmadreza djalali. he's one of the people currently on death row. his lawyer has not filed any objection and his death sentence is now enforceable. today, all the universities of flanders have called for his release. mrs. mogherini, i'm taking advantage of this moment to ask for your help. help us free our professor and doctor. please help us! - thank you. - thank you.
on behalf of the alde group it seemed like only yesterday that president trump promised us that he would solve the conflict in the middle east. he made it sound like it would be "easy". he said: "i will be a great solution", he would provide a great solution. what he's doing now, of course, is the complete opposite. he is making a statement that is in flagrant violation of international law. he has sown fear, division and hatred. he has, as we say, played with a match by the powder keg and i am a little afraid that his statements and his decision have put an end to the peace process. that should motivate us more than ever to take up our role. i agree with you, we need a strong and united europe. our role is more important than ever to return to the two-state solution, to advocate respect for human rights, to find a negotiated solution. but, mrs mogherini, we have been debating this for months and you yourself say: "yeah, i need to find the key to start that car". well, i have a few very specific questions for you. but you should know that the alde group really wants to support you and encourage you to play your part in this. we must ensure that this conflict is resolved once and for all, that a negotiated solution is found. you say very clearly: "look, we want to play our part. we want to play a bigger role". what does that mean, exactly? what will we do if the us continues on this course? how are we going to bring this up with our "friends in the united states", as you said? what are we going to do about the human rights violations, the settlements, the reclamation of the destroyed property? i've talked about this before, how are we going to deal with it? mrs mogherini, i wish you a lot of courage, a lot of strength, a lot of strength. let's hope that in 2018 we can achieve peace in the middle east. it may be a distant dream, but you can count on us.
mr president, what more can i say that hasn't already been said since the us president's announcement last wednesday? first of all, let us repeat, even though it has been said and repeated tonight, that we condemn in the strongest possible terms all acts and all calls for violence against the jews in these last days. i have two other convictions, both of which are equally profound. yes, jerusalem has been the capital of israel for over 60 years, the alpha and omega, the jewish horizon for 150 generations. there's nothing to say except to rewrite history. so in this, president trump is only reminding, even restoring the truth. in this, and in the main, he is right. now, about the form and the timing, unlike many here, i don't have a crystal ball and i don't know if, after the moment of emotion, this american decision will be violent in the long run or if it might have a chance to move the lines. it is clear that american diplomacy is in danger of losing its status as mediator for the next few years, and it is probably the europeans' duty and privilege to invent new ways of reviving the peace process. i think we need a better balance, mrs mogherini. european equidistance is far from being accepted as such in israel. a new tempo around tracks that are known, always the same in the background, from the clinton settings to camp david. it is hanukkah tonight, mr. president. a great hanukkah to the millions of jews around the world, who are lighting the first candle to celebrate - i conclude - the light and the victory of the spirit over violence, a beautiful punctuation for our debate.
madam president, madam high representative, although i am one of those who believe that yesterday's meeting with benjamin netanyahu should never have taken place in this context, i thank you in particular for your firm attitude towards him. i will, however, have three questions, both in relation to this meeting and in relation to mr trump's statement. after mr trump's unilateral and irrational announcement, which is more than regrettable, it is reprehensible because it flouts international law, are you, madam high representative, prepared to play the role of mediator to relaunch peace talks on the basis of un resolutions? i think the european union has the tools - we have spoken of the association agreement - it has the strength, but above all it has the political responsibility for peace in the middle east, but also for living it together in europe. secondly, apart from the colonization ideology of the netanyahu government, supported by mr trump, the policy of destroying palestinian infrastructure, financed by the european union and the member states, demonstrates the arrogance of the current israeli government. are you prepared, madam high representative, to demand compensation? finally, the third question: do you agree that the association council cannot meet until we have some progress on the part of israel?
i would suggest that we dare to draw conclusions from the utter disaster in libya, and two conclusions. one, we must recognize our own responsibility and two, we must put our own interests first in foreign policy. i'm sorry, mr. field, but it's not really possible to separate immigration and foreign policy. the european union and the european coalition have themselves caused the libyan mess by misunderstanding alliances and by applying wrong principles. the principle of putting self-interest at the centre of foreign policy should be introduced as an important principle. when we are making foreign policy, especially in mediterranean affairs, we must take into account the immigration impact of the measures and actions we are taking. if we could learn that lesson, then we've at least got one more advantage from the whole libyan crisis.
- a writer. i fully agree with what christel schaldemose said. this debate is not about banning kebabs. this debate is about maintaining the current legislation which clearly prohibits the addition of phosphates to meat preparations. we therefore oppose the commission's proposal to allow this. yes, there are problems in the member states. yes, there are debates in some member states as to whether kebab is a meat preparation or a meat product. but then it is up to the commission to help the member states, to step up the checks, to guide them there. i have tabled an amendment to that effect which clarifies the situation. mrs sommer, you have led the resistance in germany and i very much blame you for doing so in a populist, unfair way. this is not right. the addition of phosphates to kebabs is not permitted. that's what the regulations say. there are only three reasons why the commission can depart from that and still include those phosphates in a positive list. mrs. schaldemose has listed them. it must be clear whether or not they are harmful to public health. there are enough studies to cast doubt on that. even efsa has not provided a conclusive answer to date and efsa has decided to carry out an overview study, which will be completed only at the end of december 2018. the precautionary principle then says that we should wait a while until there is clarity. secondly, we must be sure that there is an alternative. the debate in the press in recent days and weeks shows that there are alternatives, alternatives which do not add e numbers to kebab preparations, which are safe, which are healthy. if that is possible - and i have also tabled an amendment to that effect - then it becomes clear that the opposition of mrs schaldemose and myself is not in fact opposition to the kebab industry or to the workers in the german meat industry. finally, it is true that phosphates are also added to other products such as hamburgers, sausages and even soft drinks. if the efsa study says that they are harmful to public health, then you should remove them from the positive list.
i just went to buy another delicious kebab here near parliament. i will not eat it now, commissioner, or i shall have to speak with my mouth full to you and to my colleagues. so i'm gonna eat it later, with a lot of gout. i do not think we should ban the kebab now because some people here in the house have started an ideological and some kind of whispering crusade. we are also concerned with public health. public health is one of our priorities, especially for this european parliament and for the european commission. but please, let's stop panicking. there's no reason to. if you eat too many of those kebabs, if you eat two or three of them a day, yes, of course that's too much and that can affect your health, but that goes for french fries, that goes for soft drinks, you name it. so let the european food agency, as mr peterle rightly pointed out, do its job. when the study of the added ingredients such as phosphate in our food is completed, we can make a judgment. but in the meantime, please, let's not ban this kebab. because if we are being logical with ourselves, then we should also ban all kinds of cheeses and soft drinks and all kinds of other meat products today. that would be great. so, enjoy your dinner and have a good night.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all, when i hear mr kamall, i ask myself if he simply wants to continue full cooperation inside the european union, in which case why for hell does he want to leave? i do not understand it. mr kamall, you criticise the european union and then you say you want to continue (a), (b), (c), (d), up to (z). we will see. i want to come back to other unfortunate statements, such as that of the brexit negotiator, mr davis who called – as i think gianni has already said – the agreement a statement of intent. i spoke to him yesterday on the phone, and he assured me that it is absolutely not his intention, nor the intention of the uk government, to backtrack on their commitments. i take note of that and i think the best way, michel, to secure this is, in the coming weeks, to transpose all these commitments into the legal text of a withdrawal agreement. that is the best way to do it – not in the coming months but in the coming weeks, when we start the second phase of the negotiations. talking about this withdrawal agreement, dear colleagues, especially on citizens’ rights, there are three outstanding issues, i think, that need to be solved in the withdrawal agreement. first of all, there is the fact that residing citizens’ rights should also be granted to future partners. there is no reason why future partners of european citizens should not have the same rights as the rights that we have defined here. second, we also want full protection for uk citizens living in europe. from the beginning, it has been parliament’s point of view that if a uk citizen living on the continent has the right of residence or a work permit in one country, our opinion is that this permit and this right of residence is in fact valid in all 27 member states. that is our view and i have to tell you that i sometimes have the impression that we care more about this than the whole british government at the moment. it is our task, as the european parliament, to defend these citizens, be they european citizens living in britain or uk citizens living on the continent. thirdly, if you allow me, dear colleagues, the concrete procedure. i think that michel barnier has done a great job. all rights are protected now. this is very clear. all benefits also. the word ‘settled’ has been skipped because we are not settlers. europeans living in in britain are not settlers. that is very clear. that word has been skipped but there is a problem with the procedure, and we need to solve it. the problem is that, apparently, nobody seems to trust the home office. in every letter that i receive from britain and from eu citizens, they are saying that all their rights are protected, but be aware that it is a procedure in which an enormous administrative burden was created, and where the burden of proof is on the back of the citizens instead of on the home office. i think we need to take that into account. i think that this parliament can never give the green light to the final agreement if, in the withdrawal agreement, we do not have a simple procedure, a declaration, one form per family, cost-free, and where the burden of proof is on the home office and not on the back of our citizens. it is not our citizens who decided for brexit, yet they will have the negative consequences of a burdensome procedure that is introduced here. in our view, this is part and parcel of citizens’ rights because citizens’ rights are worth nothing if they are drowned in a sea of red tape and if they are bogged down in rules and regulations. to make it more understandable, we will never allow a situation where, for example, a european banker living in the city who has enough money to pay a very important lawyer can make it, and a polish plumber or a romanian doctor cannot make it. that we will not allow. there has to be a proportionate approach in this. we will all be very keen, as michel barnier knows, on the issue of ireland. ireland cannot become the collateral damage of brexit. we will always show solidarity and be fully behind ireland in these negotiations. finally, talking about solidarity – because being behind all our member states and behind ireland is a question of solidarity – i have to tell you that i was completely shocked yesterday by the paper issued by president tusk, and i say this to the representative of the council. he issued a statement and a paper in which he mainly says that the eu has only to assist the member states, and that the member states are responsible for the migration crisis. echoing what mr timmermans said, i think the solution can only in fact come from the european union. there will be no solution for the migration crisis if it is not a european solution. i mean a european border and coastguard to manage the outside borders, a european asylum package and not the dublin approach, with the negation in fact of such a european approach, and also a european economic migration policy. let us make the european blue card the sole system of economic migration inside the european union. that is what we need, instead of a paper coming from mr tusk, who is undermining, in fact, the whole approach by the european commission and, at the same time, the whole approach of our rapporteur here in parliament, ms cecilia wikström, who has worked hard to have an agreement here in this house. let us go forward with european solutions and the european council has to show that it is on the same level as parliament and commission in this fight.
i would like to address our british colleagues, because apart from the outcome of brexit, there is an important and interesting psychological phenomenon. the fact is that here in this house, on the side of those who are lagging behind in the european union, there is a kind of acceleration tendency among the supporters of the european union, among the eu federalists. they're all shot in a fit of cramp as if they're being chased by the devil. this is best illustrated by our colleague mr belet of the epp group, who said on a television programme last week: "i'm glad they're gone because they were a pain in the ass anyway". and that explains why people like schultz, macron and others are now putting their foot down. we must realize, friends who remain behind, critics of the eu: we're going to miss those brits. i wish them all the best but will miss them.
for the ecr group when romania and bulgaria joined the union in 2007, their legal systems were not yet ready. they had to catch up and make the necessary reforms. the fight against corruption and organised crime also needed to be stepped up. the commission has since been monitoring the situation through the cooperation and verification mechanism, known as cvm for short. i have recently spoken with my ecr colleague macovei about the recent developments in romania. the government had issued ordinances to condone tax crimes and thwart police investigations and court cases, all to keep corrupt rulers in power. i asked the european commission to follow up the case. in this year's cvm report, romania was therefore counted out. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom, the united kingdom and ireland. so too are the provisions on organised crime. the schengen area has no internal borders. it is therefore of fundamental importance that we avoid importing crime into our countries in this way. however, little progress has been made. yes, there are positive developments, but not enough. that is why my delegation, the n-va, is opposed to the accession of bulgaria, romania and croatia to the schengen area. there is a real need for more efforts before the political green light can be given.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, to start with let me thank you for the opportunity to intervene here today on the european pillar of social rights. the pillar has rightly attracted a very high level of attention. on 17 november at the social summit for fair jobs and growth in gothenburg, our three institutions – the european parliament, the council and the commission – proclaimed the 20 rights and principles of the social pillar. the purpose of the pillar is to serve as a guide towards more efficient social and employment outcomes while taking into due account different socio-economic environments and the diversity of national systems. the tools for delivering on the pillar are in the hands of the member states, the social partners, civil society and the eu institutions. we must respect national competences, as well as the diversity that exists in europe. we must all do our utmost to make the pillar a reality for our citizens. this is our shared political commitment and responsibility. the pillar sets the framework for various legislative and non-legislative initiatives, including the first legislative proposal on work-life balance, which is currently under discussion in the parliament and in the council. the council is also looking forward to working with you on the proposal to revise the written statement directive. further initiatives are included in the 2018 commission work programme, more specifically the social fairness package with proposals on a european labour authority, access to social protection for atypical workers and a european social security number. as far as the implementation of the pillar is concerned, another very important instrument is the european semester for economic policy coordination. the european pillar of social rights also ties in with the discussion on the social dimension of europe taking place in the framework of the broader debate on the future of europe. during the estonian presidency, the council adopted political commitments to reduce gender segregation in education and employment to facilitate independent living and to respond to the ongoing changes in the world of work. we also reached a general approach on the european accessibility act. i would like to thank the european parliament for its strong commitment to a more social europe. your strong impetus helped to make the social pillar happen. we all agree on these principles, it is now time to put our values into practice. we look forward to working together as co-legislators in an endeavour to promote the social dimension, hand-in-hand with further deepening of economic convergence, implementing and enforcing the single market in all its dimensions by june 2018, just as our heads of state or government have repeatedly called for.
member of the commission. – mr president, on 17 november in gothenburg, the three european political institutions proclaimed our european pillar of social rights at the first social summit in 20 years. this proclamation is a unifying message to our citizens and to the world. in europe, we share important social values and we stand ready to defend a shared vision for a fair society now and in the future. the european parliament had indeed a major role in shaping the pillar, and i would like to thank the president of the parliament, the committee on employment and social affairs (empl), the president of the empl committee and the rapporteur ms rodrigues and the shadow rapporteur mr tom vandenkendelaere and the shadow rapporteurs of the other groups for their steering role and political commitment to the pillar ahead of the gothenburg summit. the pillar is our chance to reconnect europe with its citizens. as the commission president rightly said, if we want to be credible, we have to deliver. the time has come to make sure that the pillar’s rights and principles are effectively guiding our actions at european, national, regional and local level. the pillar is essentially a joint endeavour. its implementation should entail full respect of subsidiarity and the division of competences within the union, as well as of the role of the social partners in delivering employment policies in member states. this is the message that i have just sent to all ministers, social partners and all the stakeholders. i strongly encourage member states to continue their efforts to make the pillar a reality on the ground, in close cooperation with the social partners and the civil society at large. we, from our side, will make full use of the european semester. the european semester will be the key instrument to steer the process of social convergence every year, and we are starting now. the 2018 annual growth survey already makes clear that the semester will be key for delivering the pillar. the joint employment report includes the new social scoreboard to monitor areas covered by the pillar, such as the share of school leavers, the youth unemployment rate or the impact of social transfers on poverty reduction. the employment guidelines – as you know, the legal basis for the country specific recommendations – have been aligned with the principles of the pillar. we will now bring this forward in our bilateral contacts with member states within the framework of the semester, where we will identify together the main challenges. the commission is already doing its part to translate the pillar into concrete initiatives. we proposed an initiative on work-life balance, and i welcome the estonian presidency’s efforts to make progress on our proposal, and i count on you to deliver on this important file within the mandate of this parliament. as the social partners could not agree to start negotiations for an autonomous social partner agreement, next week we will present a proposal on the revision of the written statement directive. the aim of this proposal is to increase the rights for the most vulnerable workers. we want to ensure clarity for workers and employers on their contractual relationship, irrespective of the type of the contract. we are also working on a social fairness package, to be launched on 7 march 2018. this social fairness package will include a proposal for a european labour authority and one on a european social security number, to ensure that european union rules on labour mobility are enforced in a fair, simple and effective way. it will also comprise an initiative on improving the access to social protection of people employed on non-standard contracts and in various forms of self-employment. to achieve our aims, we also need a budget. the negotiations on the financial programming after 2020 are crucial. the european pillar of social rights should be a compass to guide us also in these negotiations. we count on the support of the parliament for working in this direction and to make the social dimension of europe visible also in the next multiannual financial framework (mff). we can only build a fair and a more social europe by working together. our common goal is to improve the life chances of every european. i count on you to help deliver on all our legislative initiatives that are implementing the pillar, and i count on all members of this house to be ambassadors of the pillar, and to tell your constituents that the european union stands up for the rights of its citizens.
for the ppe group the european pillar of social rights was signed at the social summit in gothenburg on 17 november. these 20 principles provide a basis for establishing a set of basic rules at both european and member state level. at the same time, a strong signal has been given that the european story is not just about the economy but also about the social, that we must move forward in both areas. and that's what's needed. the emergence of digital platforms and the economic revolution that accompanies them is upending all the established principles of our labour market. new forms of work are emerging. old jobs, like the man or woman at the checkout counter in the store, will eventually disappear and new jobs, like the deliveroo bike courier, will take their place. our social security and labour market policies really need to adapt to this. the question at the heart of this is actually very, very simple: who will protect these people? my answer is clear: then we have to. europe must do that and the european parliament must be able to do that. we must not only concentrate on fair competition, as we do in the case of the abuse of posted workers. we must also ask ourselves what the new labour market will mean for the european citizen. what about pensions, social rights, digital literacy? that is where the social pillar can point the way. that is precisely the function of the social pillar as a compass. i stand by the principles of that pillar: equal access to the labour market, the right to age in dignity, being prepared for digital challenges. but we need to be able to do more. we need to put it into practice.
for the greens/efa group mr president, in defining and implementing these policies and actions, the european union takes into account the requirements linked to the promotion of a high level of employment, the guarantee of adequate social protection, the fight against social exclusion and a high level of education, training and protection of human health. that, ladies and gentlemen, is the wording of article 9 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in this context, we welcome the fact that the european pillar of social rights has finally been formally endorsed by the european heads of state or government. if all the rights set out in this document - the right to equality, the right to education and health, the right to decent work and income, the right to social protection - were realised in practice, the european union would have made immense progress towards shared prosperity. but at this stage, this catalogue of rights is only a declaration of intent, and there is still no clear majority within the european political space to turn it into binding legislation, a necessary condition for these objectives to be achieved. we saw this with the eu 2020 strategy, which gave us the objective of reducing the number of poor people in europe by 20 million and, three years from now, i.e. 2020, we can only hope that this figure, after having increased by 6 million, will return to its 2010 level. the situation is clearly catastrophic within the euro area. then the right-thinking people will tell me that the best way to guarantee social rights is employment. the commission recently welcomed the return of the unemployment rate to its pre-crisis level, but at what cost? the question is: what is the solution to the problem of forced parttime work, or even zero-hour contracts, or of wages below the poverty line, or of mass exclusion? even the european central bank admits that the only real measure of the phenomenon is the underemployment rate, which is twice as high as unemployment. if work would lift people out of poverty, we would not have 21 million working poor in europe. the crux of the problem is that in their choice of economic policy, the majorities in power in the member states and at european level are going completely against the requirements of the social rights pillar. what are we talking about? on the one hand, completely counterproductive budgetary rules and, on the other, fiscal and social competition between member states, all of which is accompanied by a weakening of collective bargaining in the member states and crowned by free trade agreements favourable to multinationals. all this can only result in two things: on the one hand, a reduction in public expenditure and investment, which are absolutely essential to guaranteeing social rights, and on the other hand, a reduction in wages, working conditions and social protection. without questioning these political choices, we shall have no chance, ladies and gentlemen, of achieving and making the european pillar of social rights a reality, and that is what we expect.
mr president, twenty years, it will have taken us twenty years to have a new social summit. the last was luxembourg. that is, if gothenburg was expected. some people wonder: is this platform anything other than a communication operation? well, i think that question should not be asked, because we have no choice, we have no right. this social pillar must be a window of opportunity to revive the idea of a social europe, but this will only be possible if the member states do what they have to do. they need to take responsibility. the european construction cannot proceed without a genuine social footprint. that is why we must put economic and social issues on the same footing. at the beginning of this parliamentary term, jean-claude juncker advocated the triple a social package. well, let's go, it's about time! we need a clear and precise road map, with legislative proposals, with the means to do so. a first step can certainly be the introduction and reform of the written declaration directive. it is also necessary to continue to organise the mobility of employees in the most balanced way possible, and in particular to work on the coordination of social security systems. but today, too many women, too many young people, too many disabled workers, too many migrants, too many people are suffering from precariousness. the cooperation of the states is essential if the union is to put in place the appropriate policy coordination mechanisms and financial instruments. it must be an added value. social europe is a necessity, it is indispensable for the future of the european union.
yes, we must all work together in europe to make progress, there can be no doubt about that. and yes, the eu must do something about it. we need a socially just europe and a social pillar could be a big step in the right direction. the member states must be supported and encouraged by europe to make social progress. i fully support such european social initiatives. but - and there is an important but - the pillar must not be an excuse for an ever-widening european competence contrary to what the member states agreed in the treaties. subsidiarity and proportionality are very important principles. these ensure that social policy is adapted to the needs of citizens. a one-size-fits-all approach to social policy simply leads to a one-size-fits-none result. this should be a matter of real concern to us and i regret that it is not, or is not sufficiently, reflected in the present concrete proposals on the social pillar.
in writing. the social pillar and its 20 principles are finally putting social policy back on the political agenda. i welcome that, of course. however, there is a life-size "but" that threatens to dampen the festive mood. the social pillar may be full of good intentions, but it remains a non-binding 'compass' that member states 'can' but must not use to improve their social systems. as long as the social pillar remains a symbolic gesture of goodwill, it risks being pushed aside by the member states when it really matters and workers want to assert their rights. i believe that the social pillar must lead to concrete measures and enforceable legislation to protect, among other things, all workers, regardless of their status. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of social security contributions for the elderly, which will be based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. i therefore call on the european commission to take legislative initiatives to address the expectations of the social pillar and on the council to honour its promises and support concrete measures, funding and legislative initiatives.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, sustainability is not just a buzzword. it is a sine qua non for the future of our planet and for the future of our people. therefore, reaching the sustainable development goals within the eu is vital. to do that, today we now have the eurostat monitoring report, which should show us the way in the progress that we are making within the european union. let me be frank. there is something fundamentally wrong with this report. it says that we are making progress and we are moving in the right direction. it gives us nice arrows and these arrows are painted in hopeful green, but when we peel off the green glitz, we are left with an unsatisfactory report lacking the essential data, focusing on the past and missing the point of the universal character of the sdgs by not taking into account their interconnection nor their impact on eu policies. you could say that, in times of fake news, it is good to have data. of course that is true, but when you look at the data and you see that, for instance, the 1% is being qualified as progress of the highest category, then we are fooling ourselves. some say that 15% is a good way forward in the 12 years to come, but if we know that we need 40% to get, for instance, the paris climate goals in place, then we know that we are fooling ourselves. heading in the right direction is not the same as being on the right track fast enough to go in that same direction. as you mentioned, madam commissioner, some of these sdgs will not be met. they are in your portfolio – no poverty, reducing inequality, decent work. that is really worrying, because it outlines that we do not sufficiently take into account european policy and governance. let me conclude. we need to revise our measuring tools, using better indicators and data and providing a clear plan for the future. you need to do that not just with parliament, but also with ngos.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for this strong and clear report. there must be absolute zero tolerance when it comes to the sexual abuse and exploitation of children. unfortunately, we still have too many problems today in the detection and prosecution of such criminal acts. this is where europe can and must prove its added value. good crossborder cooperation between member states is of the utmost importance. there are still many challenges, especially in the area of online crime. we are faced with ever-new forms of online abuse that require continuous investment in new digital detection techniques, an adapted legislative framework and further prevention and awareness-raising. i would like to conclude by saying that children with disabilities are particularly vulnerable. they are much more likely to be subjected to physical and sexual violence. there were also other forms of abuse than in children without disability, such as during the daily hygiene routine or during their treatment. this really requires special attention and vigilance.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the father i have been and remain and the grandfather i have become cannot hide his unease and concern that we have not done everything - or at least everything we could - to prevent sexual predators from taking action. of course - and i welcome this - the european union adopted a directive in 2011, which mrs corazza bildt, in her excellent report, objectively and critically appraises, distinguishing between what has been done, what can be improved and what remains to be done. i would like to emphasize a few measures which i consider both necessary and urgent. we must ensure that member states exchange information on paedophiles, so that when paedophiles move to another member state they cannot pursue an activity which puts them in contact with children. we must, in cooperation with the internet service providers, give ourselves the technological means to detect and block child pornography and payments for such services. we need to ensure that the people behind each internet connection can be identified and to this end, encourage internet service providers and network operators to take the necessary measures to limit the number of users per ip address. finally, we must ensure that member states which have not yet done so criminalise, as is already the case in belgium, cyber-predation, i.e. an adult's disguising himself and communicating online with a minor or a person he believes to be a minor, with the aim of subsequently committing a criminal offence against him. in conclusion, i know that all this will not prevent any passage to the act of sexual predators, but at least we will have done everything we can to prevent it.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank members for their comments, and i would like to underline that the low-emission strategy will bring significant benefits in addressing the environmental footprint of transport in a comprehensive and graduated manner. the transport sector has to contribute its share of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. there is no doubt about that. the process to the low-emission strategy will also contribute to making our industry stronger and more competitive, and it will help clean up the environment for citizens and improve their quality of life through better air quality in cities and reducing congestion. i agree with the point raised about urgency. yes, we need to act, and we need to act now. we have already initiated a series of initiatives to support the move to lower emissions. member states and local authorities, educational and research institutes, as well as producers and investors can all provide much-needed incentives. one of the comments referred to the commission’s approach to alternative fuels as only a communication and not as a legislative proposal. as specified in directive 2014/94 on the deployment of alternative fuels, by the end of 2018 the commission will present an action plan on alternative fuels infrastructures. we presented this action plan in november of this year. regarding a legislative proposal amending the directive, this is foreseen for before the end of 2020 if the commission considers the need for it. a number of speakers also mentioned the importance of addressing aviation and the maritime transport sector. in order to effectively address emissions from international sectors, such as aviation and maritime, global solutions are needed. the eu is fully committed and strongly contributing to the ongoing processes for reaching effective and ambitious measures within the international civil aviation organisation (icao) and the international maritime organisation (imo). for the commission, this is a priority. there was also a mention ofthe need for horizontal initiatives or horizontal enablers, and i can refer to a number of initiatives that are in place which should strengthen the impact of the steps outlined above. for instance, advancing the electromobility update by encouraging consumers to charge batteries at off-peak times through new rules for electricity market design. in addition, there are preparations for an eu strategy on research, innovation and competitiveness that should bring together energy technologies, transport and industry and facilitate the development of energy storage solutions, such as the next generation batteries, and focus more on research into advanced bio and synthetic fuels. rules for a digital single market should set standards for using digital technologies in transport and ensure free flow of data. the shift, as already mentioned by mr eickhout, to low-emission mobility will also have an impact on jobs in the transport sector, which currently account for 15 million or 7% of eu jobs, by requiring new skills. this challenge has been taken up in the new skills agenda for europe. this strategy therefore aims to develop a horizontal enablers’ programme as well, in order to create the right framework conditions for innovation and investment in the low-emissions sector. i would like once again to thank the european parliament for this constructive cooperation on this file. i would also once again like to thank mr eickhout and the shadow rapporteurs. we all look forward to a positive vote.
in writing. all economic sectors need to step up their efforts to meet the paris climate agreement. industry, energy, buildings, agriculture, they all need to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions significantly. the transport sector needs to take action a fortiori, as it is one of the few sectors that has increased its co2 emissions in recent years. seven eu countries, including belgium and the netherlands, have already taken a shot at the bow. they want co2 emissions from cars to be reduced by at least 40% over the next decade. the only way to do that is to accelerate the switch to electric cars. shipping and aviation also need to make much greater efforts, as co2 emissions are increasing exponentially. it is good that we as the eu continue to exert international pressure to further tackle greenhouse gas emissions from ships and aircraft.
over the years, vietnam has emerged as a full partner of the european union, and this is also confirmed in a free trade agreement. now, the concept of "free" is a word that vietnam is foreign to. the communist rulers do not tolerate freedom of the press, of assembly, of opinion. human rights activists, journalists and bloggers face intimidation, violence and imprisonment on a daily basis. that is why today we express our support for the growing number of brave citizens who have dared to speak out against the politburo. among them are blogger nguyen van hoa and human rights activist nguyen ngoc nhu quynh, both sentenced to long prison terms for spreading their message. dear commissioner, the imprisonment of bloggers and activists is something that we as the european union cannot tolerate. i therefore call on you to point out the shortcomings of the vietnamese government and to put pressure on it to fulfil all its human rights obligations. free trade and a free society go hand in hand.
author. madam president, this is the fifth resolution on cambodia, the second in two months, but it was necessary. why would you do that? since the last resolution in october, we have been to cambodia, several colleagues from the asean delegation, including president werner langen and myself, and we have made the cambodian authorities aware of the importance of not dissolving the main opposition party, because this is an act which obviously kills the democratization of this country, and they have not heard us. since then, the dissolution of the main opposition party, the cnpr, has been announced. seven of the 55 members of the national assembly live in the country. the majority of them, the other 48, have had to leave the country because they are under threat. this is clearly intolerable and this resolution must go further. given the limited impact of many previous resolutions, i particularly welcome paragraph 12, which i consider important, as it recommends the freezing of the assets of regime officials responsible for this party dissolution abroad and in europe, and imposes visa restrictions. i also welcome the decision of the commission and the high representative to cut subsidies for democratisation, because there is no democratisation and so these european subsidies now look like a waste of money.
yes, there is evidence that phosphates in food can be harmful to health. the health effects of phosphates are currently being evaluated by the european food safety authority and results are expected by the end of 2018. it is therefore logical to await this efsa report before deciding on additional exemptions for the use of phosphates in food. the consumer is also at risk of being left out in the cold. phosphates can increase the weight of meat due to their water-binding properties and no information is given on a product label. this is not about banning kebabs at all. innovation is making alternatives to phosphates possible. in flanders, flanders food plays a strong role in this area. this is important not only for health reasons but also for the efficient use of the scarce raw material phosphate. for all these reasons, the n-va delegation supported the objection.
