one year before the bulgarian presidency, i would like to wish the maltese presidency success. i'm going to focus on three themes. first, the migration. the dublin regulation and the review of the dublin regulation we need not cosmetic changes but a european-level solution that ensures a fair distribution of responsibilities and does not put disproportionate pressure on countries like bulgaria, which are on the borders of the union. secondly, a coordinated approach to ensure security. the ees and etias are urgent initiatives to strengthen our external borders. they must be accompanied by clear objectives and procedures for our partner countries and respond to the concerns of european citizens. thirdly, foreign policy. our future is closely linked to that of our neighbors. let us continue to work to resolve conflicts and crises, but let us not forget the countries that are islands of stability - tunisia, lebanon, jordan in the mediterranean. finally, i call on the maltese presidency to finalise visa liberalisation with ukraine as soon as possible. the country has met the criteria, the european parliament has backed it, the council is on the move.
in writing. i welcome the conclusion of the december european council on the need for europe to continue supporting the countries along the migration route through the western balkans and the eastern mediterranean. i hope that this call for more support for the countries concerned will not be mere words but will be expressed in real support on the ground, with funding and staff, both towards the western balkan countries and towards the frontline member states. in this regard, i call on the council and its member states to deepen their commitment to managing the migration crisis and to show genuine european solidarity with countries facing disproportionate migratory pressures.
in writing. the migration crisis remains a highly topical issue, but instead of discussing how to deal with conflicts in the countries these migrants come from, we are once again having a debate with a different focus. the eu has failed to take action, tackle the problem or limit its scale. it has succumbed to the blackmail of the turkish dictator erdogan and the naivety bordering on stupidity of mrs merkel and like-minded european leaders. the result is in sight. we are facing another disaster that could have been avoided. thousands of migrants are stranded on greek islands and at border crossings on their way to western europe. we have to work on a long-term solution to the problem, because otherwise the situation will get worse, and right now even nature is against us. in southern europe, we are witnessing one of the coldest winters in decades. many regions are cut off from the world, and people are suffering. there is no doubt that measures must be taken to avoid another humanitarian catastrophe for migrants. but in focusing on the crisis they face, we must not forget our own citizens.
today, this parliament has a truly historic opportunity to chart the course for a genuinely new course for europe. the rodriguez report on the european pillar of social rights defines the basic features of a new social europe as the only chance for the european union to regain the trust of its citizens and to re-establish its status as offering the highest quality of life. these include the adoption of a framework directive on decent conditions in all forms of employment, including those arising from digitalisation; the extension of social security systems to cover all people employed in all forms of work, including self-employed workers; guarantees of decent wages and coordinated increases in national minimum wage levels to 60% of the weighted average national wage levels. it's high time we responded to the will of the people. here is the declaration of the bulgarian trade unionists: if these key paragraphs are dropped from the report, the planned improvements in working and living conditions in europe will be jeopardised and the fierce desire to preserve the zero-hour contract will remain. no one here today can afford for that to happen.
in writing. changing social realities in europe can lead to imbalances that harm the competitiveness of the european economy and the long-term growth potential. it is therefore important to seek answers to these challenges on the basis of common principles that ensure that economic growth leads to high levels of employment and social protection, demonstrating the benefits of european integration for all citizens. social policy is not just about providing social benefits and pensions through budgetary redistribution, but must be seen above all as an investment that will bring long-term benefits by making european citizens more independent and empowered. i believe that the european pillar of social rights should prioritise the issue of access to health services and health inequalities, which have significant implications for the economy and society as a whole. in this context, i think it is important that the new pillar applies to all member states, because the countries with the greatest problems in providing universal health coverage are outside the euro area.
in writing. – the situation in the central african republic remains unstable. although the brutal violence between seleka rebels and the ‘anti-balaka’ militia has dropped out of the picture, attacks against civilians (in particular women and children), peacekeepers and humanitarian organisations persist. in addition, the central african republic authorities are struggling to re-establish the rule of law in the country and therefore fail to hold accountable before justice those responsible for violence. therefore, the country’s authorities have to focus on fighting against impunity by increasing protection of witnesses and victims and by adopting without delay a strategy for transnational justice in order to address the legacy of past-fundamental rights violations. in addition, i call on the eu to increase its support for civil society organisations in the country in order to improve documentation of human rights abuses and crimes under international law.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, it is our duty to strengthen the european union's action in burundi. i shall concentrate on two aspects: human rights and the regional context. yes, ten days ago, the iteka league was removed from the list of ngos allowed to work in the country for its denunciations of human rights violations and the risk of genocide. this decision joins others targeting international ngos who denounce the deteriorating situation in burundi and sends a signal of radicalization of the government. we must protect human rights defenders, international ngos and burundian civil society. and in this sense, i call for the adoption of an urgent plan to normalize the situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms. secondly, we cannot ignore the regional context, which is deteriorating day by day. the growing political instability in east africa is deepening the humanitarian crisis and insecurity. it is imperative that the union works more closely - but above all with clearly defined responsibilities - with the african union, the east african community and all international partners to re-launch an inter-burundian dialogue in order to find a rapid and concerted solution to the crisis in the country.
i supported the report by mrs rodriguez on the european pillar of social rights. the proposals contained in it are important and contribute to the exchange of good practices to address the challenges. without underestimating the fact that the main competence in the field of social and labour policy and legislation lies with the member states of the european union, i would like to point out that europe needs a new model to follow. a model based on the interests of european citizens. a model that focuses on the real problems of the union and on how to solve them. europe must be able to cope with the advances and developments in technology, which in turn have contributed to the creation of new working conditions and to the demand for quality and adequate education. there are no universal solutions, but the challenges faced by member states are often similar. despite its focus on the euro area, the important thing is that the european pillar of social rights will be open to all countries that want to join it.
in writing. – the four freedoms of the eu single market rely on the free movement of data. however, unjustified data localisation requirements in national public procurement rules and legislation is increasingly fragmenting the single market. consumers and companies, rather than authorities, should decide where in the eu they want to store their data. in its communication entitled ‘a digital single market strategy for europe’ from may 2015, the commission recognised that ‘unnecessary restrictions regarding the location of data within the eu should both be removed and prevented’. it later promised a european ‘free flow of data’ legislative proposal to tackle restrictions on the free movement of data within the eu and unjustified restrictions on data location. the european parliament welcomed this initiative in its resolution of january 2016. despite announcements and wide support from parliament and the council, the commission’s communication on ‘building a european data economy’ falls short of a legislative proposal. it will neither remove any further data protectionism nor prevent it from fragmenting the single market. i strongly encourage the commission to put forward, without delay, an ambitious legislative proposal to remove and prevent data localisation requirements in the eu single market, for the benefit of european companies and consumers.
mr president, i would like to inform the european parliament that today in my homeland of bulgaria we are commemorating the day of the victims of communist terror. millions of bulgarian families, including my own, have been victims of this terror. i want parliament to honour that fact, without, of course, offending my colleagues on the left. these are historic events, but we must bow our heads before them, because many people across europe lost their lives.
mr president, i believe that reaching a 27% eu common target for renewables without setting national targets is not possible. one of the reasons for the success of the eu, and why the eu became a global leader for renewables, was our 20-20-20 programme with targets for each member state. i do not believe in systems in which everybody is responsible for everything. mr šefčovič, if you want to fly with your – or our – airbus 380 energy package, you must distribute as a good manager responsibilities to every member of the crew – responsibilities with higher priority than flexibility in each member state. that is why i want to ask you, mr šefčovič, to initiate a revision of the european council decision not to set national targets which was taken in october 2014. i hope that after the change of that decision i can wish you a safe flight with that airbus 380 energy package.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam high representative, first of all thank you for your mobilisation and for reminding us once again that it is in our interest, as the european union, in 2017 not to lose sight of the mediterranean, because it is true that working for the security of the mediterranean is investing in our security, but this requires coordinated actions and the mobilisation of a range of instruments. i would like to draw attention to a number of points. the first priority, as you said, is to continue saving lives. yes, faced with the impossibility of entering libyan waters, we have relied on support from the country's coast guard. that's the right approach. that is why it is necessary to allocate new funds for this project. but it's not the only solution. we should really think about how to counter the actions of traffickers who exploit the distinction between 'territorial waters' and 'international waters'. what could be the role of frontex? i also have a question about the seahorse network, which should be operational by spring. do we have a more precise timetable for the results to be achieved? the second urgent need is to stabilise libya and ensure that migrants are treated with dignity. yes, we must continue to support the country's efforts, not losing sight of the fact that the situation is fragile and we must pay particular attention to the country's southern borders. i wonder to what extent certain minorities, such as the toubou, could be included in border management. thirdly, the libyan coast is in fact the point of departure for 90% of migrants seeking to reach europe, but libya is not the country of origin of the migrants. that is why we must continue to work with the countries of origin. niger is a very good example: 70 people in may, 1,500 in november. what about the others? for this, indeed, as the european union, we must also continue our efforts to open up legal pathways for migration. the last question is that we must not lose sight of countries such as tunisia and egypt. how do you see egypt's role in managing migration? the country is making an effort. it is important that we continue to support them.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, on behalf of high representative madam mogherini, i would like to convey her regret and apologies for not attending this parliamentary debate in full due to the conflicting agenda points that led her to the continuation of talks between serbia and kosovo this evening in brussels. this has indeed been a very interesting debate. as we have seen on previous occasions, the honourable members hold somewhat divergent views when it comes to the issue of migration. however, i also take note that the large majority of the honourable members support our approach to migration management, complementing our long-term efforts, such as the partnership framework, with the short-term measures outlined in our recent communication on the central mediterranean. i am very grateful for this support. even though some may like to present it in this way, there is no quick fix to the current situation. only by applying a comprehensive and tailor-made approach – not replicating any other arrangements – continuing to save lives at sea, cracking down on smugglers and traffickers, addressing the root causes of migration and working more in particular with our african and international partners, will we be able to more effectively manage migration. this is what we will be taking from our debate today.
in writing. while the debate on managing migration along the central mediterranean route is certainly important, the focus of the debate should be, in my view, more on how to stop migration along all routes to europe. our efforts should focus on addressing the root causes of migration from africa and the middle east, because until the situation there stabilizes, i don't see how the flow of migration will stop. i support the idea of tightening controls at sea and land borders as a temporary measure to deal with this unprecedented security crisis. but we should not delude ourselves that this will be enough. we must also be able to combat traffickers and their extraordinary ingenuity, bordering on brazen and costing more and more human lives.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, i recently had the honour of leading the two eu election observation missions to the drc and gabon. so i was on the front line of all the irregularities that happened in both processes, but today i'm going to focus on gabon. i would like to stress first of all the credibility, neutrality and impartiality of the election observation mission. the implementation of the recommendations we have made is the cornerstone of our continuing dialogue. moreover, it is imperative to look more closely at the post-election violence. all the light must be shed on these abuses. those responsible for the post-election violence must be held accountable for their actions. we cannot accept impunity, we have no right to be forgotten. it is therefore equally imperative that the office of the united nations high commissioner for human rights send a mission urgently, and i call on the member states to help in this regard. finally, please, if political dialogue does not produce results, targeted sanctions, such as travel bans or asset freezes, must be adopted. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, the figures are shocking, yes, but today we are also the voice of those 200 million women and girls who have suffered some form of female genital mutilation. there is no excuse, cultural or religious, that can justify this. first of all, we all pay attention to the laws. yes, legal measures have been adopted by a number of countries. they must be encouraged, but above all they must be implemented and made known. as regards implementation, it is absolutely necessary to continue to emphasise data collection. this will give us a clearer and clearer idea of the extent of the problem, it will enable us to identify good practices, it will enable us to put the word 'prevention' in the forefront. i am very much in favour of awareness raising and information campaigns. let us not lose sight of these unconventional instruments, which have positive effects: theatrical plays in villages, the awareness-raising among men by imams in mali, comic books in senegal. raising awareness among girls and boys from an early age, promoting dialogue between generations, providing training to prevent medical genital mutilation are some of the challenges we can address. finally, a question: how can we work with regional organisations, such as the african union, to create synergies in this common struggle? the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council. the key word is "zero tolerance".
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, erasmus+ is a successful example of a programme in the european union, and i hope that, with our joint efforts, this will continue. we have had the opportunity to work on this report on the implementation of the programme for about a year in the committee on culture and education, and i think it is very important to have such reports so that we, the members of parliament, can take account of the views of the citizens and all the parties concerned. my colleagues and i worked on this report, and we were overwhelmed by the opinions of citizens and organizations. the overly complex administrative procedure was one of the common complaints and i therefore made recommendations and amendments in this regard. the national agencies, as is well known, play a very important role in this programme and i think it is very important that there is an exchange of good practice between them in order to make rapid progress and to identify and root out problems quickly and efficiently. the erasmus+ programme in its current form was established in 2013 for the 2014-2020 programming period, integrating programmes such as lifelong learning, youth in action and erasmus+ tempus. as with any innovation, it takes time for the procedures and coordination to converge. the programme is very useful in terms of developing the qualities of young people as well as those who want to train at a later stage.
the maidell (ppe) and mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, erasmus is not only one of the best-known programmes of the european union, it is also one of the most developed over the years. 30 years ago, the programme really started as a student mobility scheme, and today 'erasmus+' means training for pupils and students of all ages, traineeships, volunteering, youth exchanges, vocational training for adults, sport. the programme is an example of how the european union continuously builds on successful projects and policies and delivers concrete results to its citizens. that is why, when we ask for more funding for erasmus+, we do not just want more student exchanges, we want better trained workers with more quality skills for success in the 21st century, students who know more languages, students with professional experience from a foreign country. one example is enough to understand the importance of 'erasmus+' in shaping european identity among young people. in 2015, the country sending the most erasmus students was the uk. we joke with young people here that if the programme were 50 years old today, maybe brexit would not have happened. we would be glad to see greater access for primary schools from small towns to get the same chance as language high schools from large towns and to send students and teachers on exchange.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, extraordinary circumstances have forced me to change my speech and these extraordinary circumstances are an extremely aggressive and provocative attitude that we have witnessed in the last few hours, namely an announcement in turkish pages and websites of the flag of the bulgarian turks. this flag is very much like the flag of the turks in occupied cyprus, occupied by the turkish army. these actions of the turkish state are extremely worrying because they are a request for separatism and are a threat to the territorial integrity and the integrity of the bulgarian state and the bulgarian statehood. we will not allow such an intervention, as in cyprus. and i want to strongly object here to the actions of the turkish administration and the candidate for the new turkish sultan, namely mr. erdogan. i declare clearly that the raising of the flag of any bulgarian community is completely unacceptable and we will not allow any threat to be placed on the territorial integrity and national sovereignty of the republic of bulgaria.
the rapporteur. mr. chairman, colleagues, we have come a long way before today's final vote to lift visas for georgian citizens. it is a recognition of the achievements of the georgian authorities and citizens. today is a historic day not only for georgia, but also for the european union. the introduction of a visa-free regime for georgia marks a new stage in our relations with the country. thank you to all of your colleagues for your strong support in the process of working on this key dossier. the road to today has not been easy. but the effort was worth it for the sake of the georgian and european citizens. in september, the libe committee responsible adopted my report by a large majority. i was thus given a mandate to negotiate on behalf of the european parliament. in the meantime, the council/member states have linked the entry into force of visa liberalisation for georgia to the strengthening of the visa waiver suspension mechanism. this delayed the start of interinstitutional negotiations. this was made possible after an agreement on the suspension mechanism was reached in december last year. the strength of the european parliament is that we are consistent in our actions. we have always maintained the same position: if all the criteria are met, the visa regime is liberalised. i am pleased that the council has supported our repeated commitment to achieving rapid results in the visa liberalisation process for georgia. the simultaneous entry into force of the suspension mechanism and visa liberalisation for georgia marks the ultimate success of those efforts. the abolition of the visa requirement for georgia is a strong signal to citizens. here i would especially like to thank them for their consistency, patience and strength of democratic conviction. georgia has not only met all the requirements set by the european union, but has also built on them. the european union's common visa policy is thus proving to be an effective foreign policy tool in dialogue with our partners. georgia has made significant progress in implementing comprehensive and complex reforms. this brought the country even closer to european values and democratic standards. georgia is a strategically important partner of the european union within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy and in particular the eastern partnership. moreover, the country also plays a key role in the european union's efforts to strengthen pan-european security. europe must be surrounded by friends and partners. that is why it is important that we fulfil our own commitment to the country to lift the visa requirements. this will ensure that our relations are deepened in a spirit of mutual trust and dialogue. the introduction of a visa-free regime is essential for both georgian and european citizens. we must not forget that the real rapprochement of georgians with our common european values is possible only if they are guaranteed the freedom to travel without visas. only in this way can we share our cultures, promote economic and political convergence, and consolidate the union's position as a major player in the region. last but not least, i would like to call on the council now to start negotiations without further delay on visa liberalisation for ukraine. let's meet the expectations of our partners. they also met the criteria. in conclusion, i would like to call for strong support for visa liberalisation for georgia during the vote today. this will be in line with our own principle of visa reciprocity. i believe that today the european parliament will send a strong positive message to the georgian citizens. i'm counting on your support.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, i would first like to thank my colleagues for their support and for their clear messages. thank you, commissioner, for your continued dialogue and good cooperation on the difficult work of this dossier. i just want to say two things. today's approval of visa-free travel for georgian citizens is not a gesture. it's an acknowledgement, it's also a challenge. recognition of the achievements of the georgian authorities, recognition of the defence of our common european democratic values and of the georgian citizens. today's vote is also a challenge. a challenge to continue deepening our partnership with georgia, a challenge to our cultural, economic and political ties. i therefore urge the council to finalise the procedure as quickly as possible so that we can meet our commitment before the end of march. once again, when we talk about visas, let's always remember that we're talking about citizens. we owe it to them for the sake of our common shared values, for the sake of our common security, for the sake of our common future. now we must proceed to the final stage of the procedure.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a proposal to adopt a regulation allowing for the automatic recognition of adoption decisions issued in another member state. it is a necessary condition for the adoption of rules allowing for the automatic recognition of such decisions given in another member state to ensure full respect for national provisions on public policy and the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. i support strengthening judicial cooperation in the area of the substantive as it is our duty to provide the best possible for the most vulnerable in society. i agree with the rapporteur, mr zwefka, that council regulation (ec) no 2201/2003 on jurisdiction and parental responsibility has not addressed the issue of recognition of adoptions and that the proposed legislation could complement existing regulation by filling the gap in the legislation on recognition of adoptions in line with international law. i refer specifically to the 1993 hague convention. in accordance with article 81 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, i agree that the council, by using its right of derogation, may establish certain measures relating to family law which have cross-border implications. the only legitimate aim is to formulate a common family law for european citizens living in different countries of the union or who have moved to another country, so that they do not face unnecessary and unjustified obstacles. the new regulation, however, requires prior approval by each of the countries, even those that have nothing to do with the case. however, there is another aspect which is important to be respected as it concerns the sovereignty of states in the area of family law. article 6 of the draft regulation provides that recognition and a decision to accept made in a member state may be refused only where the rules of jurisdiction are not respected or where the acceptance is contrary to public policy in a member state. therefore, any ultimate intervention by the eu in the national politics of states is unjustified on this issue. this is the case with my proposal, which uses the most powerful instrument - the regulation.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, there are many problems in the field of crossborder adoptions, which affect many families and the interests of their children. i'll stop at three of them. first and foremost, i call on the european commission to take the necessary measures to stop the vicious practice of adopting children without the consent of their biological parents in the european union. we have many cases like this in the uk that have become a business. i hope that the appropriate changes will be made, that this will only happen in extreme cases, and that it will be in the best interests of the child. secondly, we need to promote cooperation and exchange of information, both between courts dealing with adoptions and between social services and national administrations of the member states. thirdly, in cases of crossborder adoptions, i would like to emphasise the need to respect the cultural and social traditions of the child's origin. because it's in the best interest of the child to remain in the circle of his family, even if it's not in the child's usual place of residence. i support the proposal to introduce a common form for the recognition of these crossborder adoptions, as this will make it easier and save money for parents. thank you for your attention.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr takula's report looks at the wide-ranging social, economic, educational and health benefits of sport in the union and the current challenges. calls for multi-level action to promote good governance, fight corruption, while respecting the independence of sports organisations; overall, the direction taken by the final compromise is positive and should be supported by the fact that grassroots sport plays a key role in social cohesion and the fight against radicalisation, and that volunteering in sport is of great importance. there is a need to use european union funds for sport more effectively. i also think it is necessary, even mandatory, to reduce the administrative burden on local sports organisations. i voted against the report, however, because i am against the paragraph which obliges national sports federations to use the union flag and symbol, together with the respective national flags and symbols, when international sports events are held. this is way more federalism than i can handle. i consider myself a defender of national interests in the union, who must work together in certain policies for the common good and good neighbourly relations, but i will always defend the inviolability of the flag, symbols and national traditions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted 'abstention' on the report by mrs zwefka, because i do not believe that there is a need for the union to intervene in areas which fall within the sovereignty of the member states. the choice of the strongest legal argument for the harmonisation of legislation regulation on a specific subject is also evidence of interference in the internal politics of the member states of the union. at the same time, i support the strengthening of judicial cooperation in the field of adoption, because it is our moral duty to provide the maximum opportunity to protect one of the most vulnerable groups in society. the family is the foundation of a society. this is why we must be able to strike a balance between protecting family rights and not taking away the powers of member states to shape policies based on cultural and historical factors and traditions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the erasmus+ programme, which we have been working on for a long time and have reached some good compromises. 'erasmus+' is the most successful and iconic programme of the european union and its continuation and future existence should be encouraged and supported. i would like to stress, however, that there are also points in the report on which agreement was reached without my participation. and one of them concerns the so-called refugee policy of the commission, which is being praised in stark contrast to my beliefs. i have repeatedly expressed my opinion on this matter and i will not fail to do so now. the integration of migrants from the last migrant crisis will not happen in the way that is proposed and praised in the report. and the european commission certainly doesn't offer any good alternative or solution to the problem.
in writing. climate policies must go hand in hand with preserving existing jobs and creating new ones. it is therefore crucial to strike the right balance between meeting the emission reduction targets and maintaining the competitiveness of the industry. the sectors most at risk of 'carbon leakage' and business relocation to third countries should receive sufficient free allowances to prevent job losses and the negative impact on the economy. i also believe that the rules should be simplified for small businesses that emit small amounts of greenhouse gases in order to reduce the administrative burden on them. i think it is important that countries with lower gross domestic product are financially supported to modernise their energy systems and improve their energy efficiency. those incentives should be provided through clear and as simplified as possible procedures, which leave the member states free to determine the projects to be funded.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, we are all convinced that the emissions trading scheme needs to be adjusted for the period after 2020 to make it more effective in achieving the goals of the paris agreement. but we must not forget that imposing too large restrictions on europe's energy-intensive industries will lead to their displacement to countries with lower requirements, to the loss of jobs and income, but not to a reduction in emissions on a global scale. let's take into account the fact that the eu contributes only 10% of global co2 emissions, and whether we reduce them to 7% or 6% by 2030 will not solve the global problem, but it could cause irreparable damage to our own economy. it is therefore not justified to accept emission reduction factors and ratios that threaten the existence of certain sectors of european industry. i therefore welcome the return of texts from the itre opinion which are much more balanced and much more protective of the vulnerable sectors and sub-sectors of our industry. i certainly support the relief for countries with lower gross domestic product to receive free emission allowances, but let us not introduce conditions for the use of this aid which make it virtually inoperative.
madam president, i very much hope that in a few years we will be talking simply about the single market, and not about an analogue or digital single market. since that time has not yet arrived, i would like to base my remarks on competition policy with regard to the digital single market. without fair competition policy there is no digital single market. competition not only gives consumers more choice but should also provide the level playing field that is needed so that start-ups will scale up in europe and not elsewhere. the online world is expected to create more competition in europe. therefore, it is crucial to improve access to goods and services, to eliminate unlawful obstacles to online competition and to ensure that online shopping is barrier free. only then will we be able to stop the building of monopolies and prevent illegal access to content. ending unjustified geo-blocking practices is one concrete step in the right direction but i believe it should be done in a way that does not hamper smes and start-ups, and does not raise prices for consumers, especially in newer member states. this is one of the many reasons why i believe national competition authorities should work together with the commission. i also believe that, in order fully to guarantee competition, the principle of neutrality should be strictly followed. finally, in a particularly dynamic sector such as the digital economy, we need swift enforcement and competition policy rules that create a friendly business ecosystem, nourishing new business models and supporting innovation at all levels.
member of the commission. – madam president, as is quite obvious and as you all have underlined, whistle-blowers help to uncover threats or harm to our public interest. they play an extremely important role in fighting fraud and corruption. according to a study from 2016 analysing more than 2400 cases of fraud in 114 countries, about 40% of all detected fraud cases are uncovered by whistle-blowers. the commission therefore strongly supports the objective of protecting whistle-blowers and this is why specific guidelines were developed back in 2012. this is also why it has been included in protective measures in the european legislation on anti-money laundering, market abuse, collective investment in transferable securities and trade secrets. recent leaks, such as the panama papers, have once again highlighted the importance of whistle-blowers for journalistic investigations and, in this particular case, for exposing tax avoidance and tax evasion. strengthening the fight against tax evasion, avoidance and illicit financial activity, promoting good tax governance, is one of the commission’s top priorities, as you all know. the commission is currently assessing the need for horizontal or further sectoral action at eu level, with full respect for the principle of subsidiarity. we are carrying out an impact assessment study and a public consultation will be launched at the end of february. both will inform our assessment of the next possible steps. i count on your support to encourage a wide range of citizens and stakeholders to support and participate in this consultation. we all agree that the protection of whistle-blowers is vital. the question is how best to achieve this objective and how we can contribute at the european level and in the european part of our democracy. a lot has already been done in fields where the european union has competence. we now need carefully to assess the needs and the possible scope for horizontal or further sectoral action here in the european democracy to see what we can do at a european level while fully respecting the principle of subsidiarity. i look forward to continuing and deepening the discussion with you on this subject.
madam president, i strongly condemn the call by the prime minister of the belgian walloon region, paul maniet, for bulgaria to leave the european union. i find such chauvinistic statements unacceptable, especially since mr. maniet and i belong to the same political family. i, for my part, advise him to stop flirting cheaply with the belgian electorate and to think about how we can build a europe of solidarity and oppose the populist rhetoric of the far-right political formations. i admire mr. maniett's position on the canada trade agreement (ceta), but i strongly oppose his attempts to treat bulgarians as second-hand citizens in the european union. especially since we have a history of over 1300 years. we don't need another nigel farage in europe, much less in the ranks of the socialists.
mr president, the debate on the future of the european union must not only take place here, but also in national parliaments and in civil society. we must respond to european citizens' expectations of greater physical and social security, not send signals of disunity. peace as an argument for the need for the european union is not a cliché, but it is not enough. the fragmentation of the european union into different groups and formations is counterproductive. all steps to strengthen the euro area must be open to non-euro area countries that have expressed a desire to join. the european project will be trusted by european citizens if we show that it is effective and adequate to the world around us. at the present stage, this means common protection of external borders, sharing of defence capabilities, common fight against terrorism and external threats, a common and solidary migration policy, a strong and unified foreign policy, and investments in growth, employment and competitiveness.
in writing. – this year we celebrate the 60th anniversary of the rome treaties. back then, the founding fathers had a vision for a united europe and they believed in it with all their being. today, europe faces more challenges than ever before. this is why it is very important to remember the legacy of rome and shape our new vision for the european union. this discussion should not only be in the corridors of the eu institutions; we need to get on the ground and listen to the people – the majority of them wants european-wide solutions for the challenges we face nationally. the resolutions for the future of europe are a good base to start this discussion, yet they outline solutions only to the problems we have today. we have to be visionaries and define what the problems of the future are, then provide a safety net.
in writing. the challenges facing the european union in recent years the migration crisis, the security crisis, brexit logically require an analysis of the european approach to see where to keep it, where to improve it, where to build on it. before we talk about changing the european treaties, however, we need to focus on using the eu's existing capacity and legislative framework, implementing european legislation by all member states, and improving cooperation between them. it is also of the utmost importance that the eu does not become a two-speed union, now or in the future. i am opposed to the idea of creating two categories of countries in terms of euro area membership, as we are currently seeing with regard to schengen. it is unacceptable that countries like bulgaria, which are not in the euro area, should not be taken into account in decisions concerning the future of the euro, which we will join anyway. i believe that to be successful, the eu must function as one, working on common rules for all member states and protecting the interests of all equally.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr fleckenstein, for his significant efforts in the preparation of this progress report on albania. in the light of this, we should clearly recognise albania’s role for regional stability in its full alignment with relevant eu declarations, demonstrating clear commitment to european integration. as a member of the european parliament from a balkan country, i fully support albania’s accession to the eu and i am very happy that the foreign affairs committee voted with a full majority for the accession negotiations to be opened as soon as there is credible and sustainable progress in the implementation of judicial reform and in the fight against organised crime and corruption. during the past year, albania has made progress in key reform areas in domestic policies, and for that reason the commission recommended the opening of the accession negotiations. of course, challenges persist and the upcoming parliamentary elections in june 2017 will be crucial to further advance the eu accession process. i believe the best opportunity for albania to show its commitments towards the eu is by ensuring free and fair elections. all political actors and institutions have to guarantee that the elections will be held in compliance with international standards, and civil society organisations have to participate actively in the overview of the whole electoral process. in this regard, i call on the albanian authorities to take measures to facilitate the possibility for albanian citizens residing abroad to vote in albanian elections outside the country. in conclusion, the report underlines the improved political climate in albania and the fact that some key reforms were consensually adopted in the parliament, notably measures on judicial reform and reorganisation of the judiciary. it clearly highlights challenges that albania is facing and some of the positive steps that the government has taken to deal with them – for example, its efforts to counter violent extremism, and the adoption of key pieces of anti-corruption legislation. but more should be done to improve the climate of inclusion and tolerance of all minorities.
madam president, commissioner, i will focus on only two elements: first, the rights of minority communities and then the road and mobile infrastructure. respect for the rights of minority communities is one of the important criteria that candidate countries must fulfil on their way to joining the european union. in this connection, i would like to recall the bulgarian ethnic minority - the only unrecognised historical minority subjected to brutal denationalisation by communist propaganda during tito's yugoslavia from 1944 onwards. people of bulgarian ethnic origin in albania according to various sources number between 50 and 100 thousand people and have been waiting for decades to be recognized as an official minority. unlike other communities, which are compact, the bulgarian one is mainly fragmented into three different regions that are not connected to each other. the bulgarian community is also religiously diverse. for example, in prespa, orthodox christians predominate, in golo bordo, it is predominantly mixed muslim and orthodox, while in the gora area, muslims predominate. i would also like to call for the construction of the rail link and the motorway between tirana and skopje to be accelerated as part of corridor 8, which is to link albania, macedonia and bulgaria. commissioner, something very important: in order to have contacts in the balkans, in the western balkans, mobile internet and telephone roaming charges must be reduced or eliminated, and the acceding countries must also join the digital single market before they have finally joined the european union.
dear colleagues, i am disappointed to learn that colleagues have requested a separate vote on the texts of the report which provide for the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of the bulgarian community in albania. i am categorical: additional conditions are needed to protect the rights of people of bulgarian ethnic origin in the prespa, golo burdo and gora regions, by incorporating them into legislation and guaranteeing them in practice. in 2016 alone, over 2,500 people from albania applied to regain their citizenship based on their origin. there are three bulgarian schools in tirana, korca and bilica, the church of st. nicholas in the village of steblevo, golo bordo region, is being restored, and the church in the village of ginovets is also operating. hundreds of bulgarians from albania study in higher education institutions, dozens have returned as teachers in elbasan and tirana. who would dare deny these people the right to self-determination as they wish? isn't that what this room is supposed to do? after all, every session we see these kinds of issues, these kinds of reports that passionately defend exactly the same rights of these kinds of communities all over the world, outside the european union, from china to equatorial guinea. that would be cynical and presumptuous. it would be an unacceptable double standard and a violation of all the principles that have been spoken about in this chamber. that would be humiliating complicity in the ongoing crimes of comintern propaganda in the balkans. i call on all colleagues to vote with two pluses in the split vote on paragraph 24 of the report by mrs flexenstein.
mr president, the annual growth survey talks about focusing on social fairness to deliver more inclusive growth. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he believes that the policy approaches which are built into the commission’s european semester approach are actually delivering this focus on social fairness and inclusive growth? let us look at the data. there are some signs of recovery on the labour market but, as we have heard, growth is pretty moderate. the share of long-term unemployed is increasing, employment rates among low-skilled workers have continued to fall by 1.4% since 2014. my question has to do with much of what colleagues have been saying. is there not a realisation in the commission that if you do not build a strong social component into the european semester, it will not deliver what people are expecting? namely build in the european pillar of social rights in the reading of the resolution that this house passed a couple of weeks ago. if that is not done, i believe that there will be a growing rejection by people of the very recipes that you are offering.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first of all i would like to extend my deepest sympathy to the canadian people for the terror attack they suffered two weeks ago. je suis québecoise, nous sommes tous québecois. with canada, we share the democratic values of openness and tolerance. we cooperate in tackling common challenges such as migration, sustainable development, climate change and terrorism. the two agreements that we are discussing here today – the free trade agreement (ceta) and the strategic partnership agreement – together offer an opportunity to upgrade our eu—canada relationship. those agreements strengthen both our economic relations and our geopolitical alliance, reflecting our partnership, which is both unique and distinctive, making that partnership deeper and more powerful, reaffirming our fundamental values and political principles and using them to shape globalisation, with an institutional framework that allows for deeper exchange, to help each side serve its citizens in the 21st century. ceta will benefit eu citizens and business. exports to canada today support around 900 000 european jobs. but the 70 000, or perhaps a little more, eu companies who export to canada face many obstacles. these obstacles are particularly burdensome for small and medium-size companies, which make up about 80% of the total. ceta helps those companies in many ways. it removes almost all tariffs from day one. exporters stand to save over eur 500 million a year, and that is a lot of money, especially for the small companies. it also cuts red tape, the lengthy customs and duplicative certification procedures which small businesses can ill afford. it opens up markets in services and public procurement on all levels, and it protects over 140 of the most traded geographical indications, helping european farmers sell more of their high—quality products in canada. trade policy is about opening markets, but it is also about our values, so ceta is a progressive agreement with a progressive partner, upholding our standards and protecting our sensitivities. nothing in this agreement undermines a government’s right to regulate in the public interest; nothing in this agreement affects the safety of food we eat or the products we buy; nothing prevents governments from providing public services or bringing these services back to the public domain if they have been privatised; nothing requires privatisation of water or healthcare, and nothing changes the prerogative of eu lawmakers to set eu rules under eu procedures. in particular, decision—making in the ceta joint committee cannot circumvent or derogate from eu treaty requirements, particularly the role of the eu institutions in making policy. ceta will not change food safety standards or any other eu requirements; only the eu institutions can do that, and member states may also adopt relevant legislation for that. the commission will fully abide by eu internal processes, as defined by the treaties, before taking any position in the ceta committee, and there can be no doubt that the role of this parliament will be both fully respected and your contribution is also welcomed. i know this parliament has concerns and had concerns about the private ad hoc arbitration known as the investor-state dispute resolution (isds), so we have reformed it. your role here has been critical in shaping the new investment court system. this new system guarantees a government’s right to regulate; it uses public courts, qualified judges, transparent proceedings, an appeal mechanism and a strict code of ethics, and this parliament will be involved in selecting its tribunal members, similar to its involvement for ecj judges. as you know, with canada we are right now working on the international scene to promote the idea of a multilateral investment court. ceta is a modern, new kind of agreement, promoting our values of free, fair and sustainable trade. canada and the eu pledge to effectively implement major international agreements on labour and the environment. these provisions are ambitious, but they are also binding and legally enforceable, and they are having an effect: canada is on the path to ratify the last outstanding core labour convention on collective bargaining. the agreement contains a mechanism to review these provisions, notably on enforcement, and i commit, as i have written to you in letters, to set in motion this review mechanism soon after ceta is provisionally applied. to feed into this review, i intend to open a broad and inclusive debate on sustainable development provisions in our free trade agreements, involving all stakeholders, including of course this parliament. the strategic partnership agreement accompanies and complements ceta, reinforcing our partnership, deepening contacts and coordination in areas like foreign security and defence policy, migration, counterterrorism, human rights, sustainable development and climate change – areas where we can work, and where we are already working together, to make life better for our citizens and promote a progressive international agenda rooted in our principles. honourable members, we are at a time where many stand against what the eu stands for – openness, international cooperation, freedom to trade, etc. – and those who oppose those principles often also question the foundation and the future of the eu itself. against those trends, we have the chance to work with like-minded partners to show that protectionism does not work: that putting up barriers and building walls is not the answer. good, efficient fair trade agreements with like-minded partners are the answer, and we have this opportunity today by consenting to the two agreements. i would like to end by thanking the rapporteur, mr pabriks, and of course mr tannock on the strategic partnership agreement, the shadows, and many more who have worked for a long time on this agreement. i am looking forward to the debate, and hopefully a successful vote. thank you very much.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – mr president, the committee on employment and social affairs in its opinion of 8 december last, stressed that decent job creation, balanced wage increases and expanded entrepreneurship possibilities must be the defining criteria for giving consent for the conclusion of ceta. the committee found, however, that the agreement seriously fails and falls short on all three scores. real world models and assessments indicate no more than a 0.018% increase in overall eu employment over six to ten years, with significant sectoral dislocations and increases in long-term unemployment. income gaps are projected to widen between skilled and unskilled workers. there is no single chapter with specific measures in favour of smes, and finally, the privileged status of investors under the investment court system stands in stark contrast to the mere consultations envisaged for protecting labour interests and rights. hence the committee’s recommendation to parliament is to decline to give its consent for the conclusion of ceta. (applause)
madam president, the agreement is in the interest of european citizens and businesses. it means growth and new jobs without compromising european standards in any area, despite the outright lies we have heard from some of our colleagues today. the bulgarian economy depends on exports of goods and services, which account for about 80 percent of gross domestic product. it needs foreign direct investment and free access to markets and third countries. bulgaria, and the european union as a whole, will therefore benefit from the agreement, from visa-free travel, from easier recognition of professional qualifications and better access to the labour market, from lower costs for exporters, from opportunities for bulgarian firms to participate in public procurement tenders and the opening of the canadian market. the agreement is not to the detriment of smes, but to their benefit. the big guys can operate globally without the agreement. for months we have been bombarded with apocalyptic scenarios: the agreement will flood europe with gmos, enslave the european peoples, lead to economic collapse. when the agreement goes into effect, it will become clear how flat those lies were. it's much easier to succumb to populism, but it's more responsible to explain to citizens the benefits of this agreement.
in writing. i strongly believe that the ceta agreement will give a new impetus to our economies in the rapidly developing global trade. the eu-canada relationship is based on shared values, as evidenced by a long history of broad political and economic cooperation, and we need to deepen rather than encapsulate it. in 2015, the eu imported €28.3 billion worth of goods from canada, while eu exports of goods to canada were worth €35.2 billion, and this figure is expected to increase by more than 20% when the agreement is fully implemented. this is a real example of the benefits that ceta will bring to the eu and canada. we should also not overlook the fact that the agreement introduces a new investment justice system and improves investment protection rules. it will make the settlement of investment disputes fairer and more transparent. ceta is the first free trade agreement concluded by the eu with another established and significant oecd member country. it is also the most ambitious agreement ever concluded by both the eu and canada, and we must support it.
mr. chairman, i voted against seta because i don't think it's in the interest of bulgaria. for years, the country's agriculture has been shrinking. with the fall of import quotas and import duties for canada, bulgarian production will most likely only receive additional competition. in the internal and european market, a significant number of products are under transitional quotas, for example beef and pork, posing a direct threat to these sectors in bulgaria. also, no bulgarian product protected by geographical significance is included in seta. their manufacturers are not immune to imitation and abuse on the canadian market. and canada is the fifth largest producer of gmo food in the world. in this regard, the european commission argues that canadian foods will have to comply with european legislation. but that means labeling food. that doesn't mean these foods shouldn't be distributed. they will be distributed without restriction and these foods will be bought by the poorest people in europe, including bulgarians, and by bulgarian pensioners.
mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, terrorism is without a doubt the greatest global threat of the 21st century. barbaric terrorist attacks have claimed innocent victims around the world, regardless of their ethnicity or religion. the european union is no exception, and the problem of so-called 'foreign fighters' and their possible return to the european union is very real. that is why we need a comprehensive approach and a long-term commitment to guarantee the security and peace of our democratic and free societies. in this respect, i fully support the proposal for a directive on the fight against terrorism. it has added value for the european union as it creates a harmonised basis for criminal law. member states should continue to make efforts to prevent terrorism by coordinating their strategies and exchanging information. they need to apply good practices at both union and national level. but also to update their national prevention policies in line with the union strategy to combat radicalisation and terrorist recruitment.
in writing. fighting terrorism doesn't mean we sit back and pray it passes by, and close our eyes. europe's multicultural policy has brought these terrorists to our shores. it has turned neighborhoods of otherwise secular european cities into islamic enclaves and territories that the police cannot even think of entering. this extremely disgusting phenomenon, which is being transmitted within our union, can only be tackled by the joint efforts of all member states and, in general, of all the countries of our continent. moreover, in addition to young jihadists from the ranks of isis returning to europe and turning into lone wolves, we are now seeing a merger of organized crime with terrorist organizations. i therefore call on all member states, including bulgaria, to update their legal frameworks to combat terrorism and organised crime so that we can more easily combat the phenomenon of 'terrorism' which has become the scourge of europe today!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, control of europe's external borders has always been and will continue to be one of the most important guarantees of security within the union and of the protection of the right of free movement of european citizens. i believe that the introduction of systematic checks at the external borders of the european union, not only on third-country nationals but on all european citizens, will help the work of the security services in apprehending people who pose a terrorist threat. this dossier is extremely important for my country, bulgaria, which is protecting one of the most difficult european external borders, the one with turkey. bulgaria has repeatedly demonstrated that when it has the necessary information from its european partners, it is able to successfully counter terrorism. however, the experience of bulgaria shows that for the new policy of systematic checks to be successful, the relevant databases must be regularly replenished with information from the different services and all member states must have full access to these systems, in particular sis. in other words, in order to successfully enhance cooperation and information exchange between european security services, all countries on the european union's external borders must join schengen.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, honourable member of the commission, honourable members, i still have my reasonable doubts about this report as a whole. i have doubts of a moral, ethical and any other nature and i hesitate to recommend that my group's report be voted down. i agree that robotics and artificial intelligence are very fast-moving technologies in some sectors and that the discussion of the issues arising from this is necessary. but let me reiterate my concerns, especially when it comes to this legislative proposal. not only are there issues of ethics, morality and public impact that need to be addressed in depth, but there are much more important, more fundamental issues, such as the application of a so-called 'universal approach to action' on this issue. furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, the difference between the technological advances in the central and peripheral regions of the european union is not taken into account in this document. last but not least, the burden will fall on the consumers. this proposal, which could one day become european union law, has the potential to oblige citizens of all member states to pay even more in insurance, a cost that will fund a new robot insurance scheme, such as the agency for robotics and artificial intelligence. neither the insurance companies nor the industry itself would support such an early initiative. i strongly believe that at this stage the legislative proposal is too early and i believe that further study and discussion is needed.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – mr president, this initiative enables europe to open a new page in the history of our continent so that we can prove we are a continent of innovation, of places where it can happen, a continent open for business. in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection we want to put forward three key points, and i would like to thank our colleagues in the committee on industry research and energy for taking them on board. first of all, the initiative should deal with what the sector is willing to do and wants to do. second of all, it has to have a regional approach: newer member states also have to have a key role in the discussions in bringing forward this initiative. third, we need european legislation to guarantee the free flow of data. we want the free flow of data to be the fifth freedom in europe. i really hope that the european cloud for open science could become one of those key successful projects in europe, just like projects such as erasmus, the abolition of roaming or the european fund for strategic investment. i would like to thank everyone who pulled together on this text and ensured that we managed to fight the populist approach and that it did not block our way in pushing the initiative forward.
author. – mr president, this is not the first time in this house that the committee on regional development has asked the commission to respond to the issue of slow implementation. just last year we adopted a similar resolution on accelerating the implementation of cohesion policy. three years have now passed since the start of the new programming period and we are still seeing delays. they have resulted in significant setbacks to project implementation at local, regional and national level, as well as a considerable decrease in payment appropriations compared to last year. we are concerned that this situation will lead to high levels of decommitments in the years to come. it also calls into question the goals and targets of cohesion policy and the smooth implementation of all the projects and operational programmes. while new requirements, such as those on thematic concentration and financial management, ensure increased performance they have also slowed down the implementation process. with this in mind, we underline the importance of simplification. we also encourage the commission to increase flexibility in relation to the priorities in its operational programmes and to improve coordination between european structural and investment funds and other financial instruments, particularly the european fund for strategic investments. we welcome the support provided through the taskforce for better implementation but we believe more can be done to assist the managing authorities and speed up implementation. the regional development committee therefore calls on the commission to present an implementation action plan in the first quarter of 2017. this should assess the cause of the current delays, and it should be drawn up in close cooperation with the member states, with the aim of accelerating the implementation of operational programmes. the regional development committee wants to know how the commission will increase flexibility and avoid decommitments. this is the first part of our question. secondly, how will the commission ensure the full implementation of the payment plan by 2023? thirdly, we are asking how the commission will increase technical assistance for the managing authorities. we ask the commission to come forward with the solution to these issues in the cohesion forum and the 7th cohesion report. we urge the commission to address these questions and deliver an implementation action plan in order to speed up the implementation of cohesion policy for this period. we hope that the lessons learned from these delays can inform the debate on the future european structural and investment funds post-2020. bearing in mind the importance of this debate, we need to follow the situation with regard to implementation in the current planning period, and it is extremely important to encourage member states to take special measures to improve implementation, otherwise we will have a not-very-successful period, which will lead to more debates concerning the future of the core of cohesion policy and the core results of the policy. when we talk about the delay in payments and the delay in implementation, we are actually talking about delay in pursuing the main goals of cohesion policy: making the european economy more competitive and creating jobs and growth around europe.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – mr president, firstly i would like to express my sincere appreciation to the rapporteur mr van nistelrooij for his truly constructive collaboration and partnership in including in the report important committee on employment and social affairs (empl) considerations. regarding the objective of maximising the contribution of european structural and investment funds, i would like to highlight two issues of particular concern. one is the serious concern and disappointment of empl about the late adoption of the european social fund operational programmes due to the considerable novelties introduced for the 2014-2020 period, which has led to administrative difficulties despite efforts for simplification, thus bringing about the urgent need for both the member states and the commission to accelerate the implementation of operational programmes. and second, the request of empl to the commission to ensure that the specific objectives of esf programmes relating to europe 2020 headline targets, and to the earmarked budget of 20% of the esf for spending on social inclusion, are fully achieved by closely monitoring the correct implementation of the actions on the ground.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, in my opinion, cohesion policy is no longer just a policy. it is part of the common values we share and it delivers more results than many of our other policies combined. 15 million people were supported by the social fund; 10 million people gained internet access because of structural funds, 5 000 new roads were built, 30 000 were rebuilt, 1 000 miles of railroad network were created, 100 000 start-ups were supported, and i can go on and on with these statistics. however, the late implementation of that policy will harm not just certain projects, but our entire image in the union. therefore, a grand master plan is needed. firstly, member states are lagging behind in the schedule. we should explore the possibility of extending the programme period for some operational programmes. we should explore the benefits of having a monofund, keeping the same share of different funds, but operating under a single rule book. this would cut red tape and increase the absorption rate. last, but not least, managing authorities should go to the beneficiaries, not the other way around. such mobility would increase the absorption rate and keep the error rate low, especially in mountain regions, remote regions and rural regions. we have to speed up, we have to promise and we have to deliver. our citizens deserve it.
in writing. the information on the 10,000 missing migrant children is disturbing for two reasons. on the one hand, these are children for whom we have a duty to take special care, since some of them have lost their parents. on the other hand, if so many children manage to escape the watchful eye of the authorities, imagine how many more and what kind of people use the migrant routes to reach europe and then disappear. more action is needed at european level to protect migrant children, such as combating trafficking in human beings, providing special care for unaccompanied children, strengthening cooperation and information exchange between security services in relation to missing children, even by creating a specialised unit within europol. it is also necessary to ensure that unaccompanied migrant children receive qualified and trained guardians through upcoming changes to european legislation. migrant children are not criminals, but they can become criminals if they fall into the hands of human traffickers, organised crime groups and even terrorist networks. addressing the issue of missing migrant children is therefore in the interest of both their safety and well-being and european security.
the free movement of persons within the union is one of the greatest benefits of membership, which millions of citizens of the member states directly enjoy on a daily basis. eliminating or limiting it would negatively affect people's lives. it is not only one of the fundamental freedoms, but also a key to the development of the european economy, competitiveness and business. in this context, i would like to state directly that the attempts of the british government to restrict the rights of european citizens living or wishing to settle on the island are unacceptable. the uk is and will remain a member state until it leaves the union and must fully respect existing legislation, including the principles of freedom of movement and non-discrimination. i condemn the attempts by false claims to instill fear in british society that half of bulgaria and romania will move to britain. the difficulties in the forthcoming negotiations are no excuse for such empty allegations concerning one or another member state to serve as a pretext for breaching the treaties and trampling on the rights of european citizens. i therefore call on the european commission to protect all european citizens and to ensure that their rights to free movement and establishment are respected everywhere in the union, including in the uk, even if criminal proceedings against the latter have to be brought. we need more information on existing cases of breaches and what action will be taken to stop them.
in writing. in 2016, the eu made progress on its key projects related to the protection of foreign nationals, the fight against terrorism, the digital single market, the energy union, the fund for strategic investments. in 2017, we continue to work for the security and well-being of union citizens, fighting for new freedoms such as the free movement of data. in 2016, the citizens of the uk chose not to be part of all these projects and processes after leaving the eu. however, before brexit is a reality, the uk remains a full member of the eu. one of the obligations of membership is the commitment to allow eu citizens to benefit from free movement within the union. it is important that the rights of the three million european citizens living in the uk are guaranteed both now and after brexit. i stand by the decision of the house of lords and trust it will be final. one of the foundations on which the eu is based is the rule of law - it must be respected and upheld without exception. eu citizens cannot be deprived of their right to work and reside legally in the uk. respect for this freedom should be closely monitored by the european commission and its infringement should be severely punished.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, as the commissioner stated, a number of existing intergovernmental agreements were not compliant with eu law. the high-profile example was the south stream project. moreover, it has proved very difficult, even impossible, to renegotiate or terminate such agreements. according to the new rules, member states should inform the commission in advance about their future gas and oil contracts with third countries through a formally established exchange mechanism. this mechanism will allow member states to be aware early enough about non-conformity with eu law and to have the commission’s expertise on their side. i would highlight the fact that this is the first dossier from the energy union strategy on which an agreement with the council has been reached, and securing this agreement in a record time is a significant political achievement towards establishing the energy union. the key objectives of the decision are to increase transparency of the energy market, to guarantee that intergovernmental agreements in the field of gas and oil are in line with eu law, and to strengthen the eu’s resilience to gas and oil supply disruptions. it will equally increase member states’ negotiating power with third countries, as they benefit from the political and economic weight of the european union. subsequently, a high degree of transparency will also contribute to closer cooperation between member states in the field of external energy relations and the achievement of long-term objectives relating to the functioning of the internal energy market. more transparency and coordinated purchasing will eliminate market fragmentation in the eu. that is why i think this decision deserves our approval.
mr president, many patients in europe have no or only limited access to vital diagnostics and treatment. inequalities in access to quality healthcare are widespread across the european union and unfortunately innovation does not reach all member states at the same rate. although the powers in the field of medicines policy are at national level, i believe there are also european solutions to improve the current situation. medicines are one of the pillars of the health system, not just a commodity. public health and patient interests should prevail over economic considerations. the european commission must therefore monitor closely the situation with parallel trade to prevent it from leading to shortages of medicines in some countries, such as bulgaria. i think it is counterproductive to talk about harmonising the prices of medicines in the european union. the economic situation is different in each country and prices should reflect this appropriately. what we can do, however, is to harmonise the assessment of the therapeutic added value of each medicinal product to speed up the process of placing it on the market and to avoid duplication. the evaluation is currently carried out by twenty-eight different national agencies, but some countries are experiencing serious difficulties due to a lack of administrative capacity. ultimately, it's the patients who suffer the most who are at a disadvantage because they don't have timely access to the treatment they need. finally, i would like to draw attention to an important issue that concerns cooperation at the regional level.
mr president, after the german discussion, i too would like to say a few words about the evaluation of the implementation of the creative europe programme, which is a great opportunity to take stock of the results achieved and to outline the challenges and problems. within the european union, it is the only direct programme from which the arts, culture and audiovisual sectors can benefit. as rapporteur sylvia costa rightly pointed out, the programme suffers from its own success. the bureaucratic hurdles in applying, together with the low rate of approved projects due to the lack of financial resources, discourage cultural workers from applying for funding under the programme. to be more specific, projects approved in the media strand account for 32% of those submitted, while in the culture strand they are only around 15%. in addition, many proposals are excluded because of the high funding threshold, which is unaffordable for cultural associations with small capital. europe is known worldwide for its cultural heritage, and the funds allocated to culture amount to only 0.14% of the european union budget, which is laughable to say the least. speaking of culture and how important it is for the spiritual health and mutual understanding of european citizens, i would like to pay special attention to the mechanism for funding literary translation. although one of the priorities of the culture sub-programme is to promote literary exchange within the union, bulgarian writers, i dare say, are being openly discriminated against. in bulgarian bookstores you can find translations from french or english authors, but at the same time, for example in belgium, you cannot find a book translated by a bulgarian author. it is normal for larger and richer countries to have the opportunity to generously support the translation of their writers into other european languages, but that is not the case here. readers from other countries should also be able to enjoy the works of writers such as georgi gospodinov and milen ruskov.
in writing. the cultural and creative sectors of the european union should be supported, not only because they have proven to create a substantial proportion of jobs, but also because preserving our identity is the foundation on which the eu is built. however, we are facing challenges unprecedented in our history, and because of this, we must learn to prioritize our priorities. we don't always have to start by asking for more funds to be more effective. existing funds must be used effectively before new requests for more funds are made. investments should be directed in the right areas. creative europe has aspects to improve and we need to focus on that. for example, i still have doubts about the good governance of the programme given the fact that it is run by separate directorates. the decision-making in these cases is complex and not always consistent. such approaches, in my view, should be avoided, as we seek efficiency and results.
mr. chairman, i voted today to end discrimination against bulgaria. it is time to end the humiliating treatment of my fellow citizens and nearly 70 million other europeans, whom the united states requires visas. the european commission chose to violate its own laws, even after a ruling by the european court of justice, rather than impose visas on us citizens, putting washington above the law. in this way, the european commission creates a 'two-speed europe' while claiming to be fighting for equality. in this context, i met yesterday with the legal service of the european parliament, with whom we discussed and outlined the next steps to combat this discrimination against bulgaria. the message is clear. if the european commission doesn't introduce visas for americans within two months, we'll take this to court for inaction. the law is the same for all.
in writing. mr president, i find the call in the 2014-2015 report on equality between women and men in the european union on investing in child and elderly care particularly important, as i believe we need to take into account the special role of working women who bear a double burden of responsibility not only in relation to their workplace, but also in relation to family and household care. the availability of quality and accessible childcare facilities is one of the prerequisites for the active inclusion of women in the labour market and in public life. inequality in the labour market and the fact that a large number of employed women work part-time are costing the european economy. i therefore call on member states to consider possible means of providing more employment opportunities for women by providing more and more accessible childcare facilities so that they are not faced with a choice of career or family.
in writing. the agreement reached between the european parliament, the council and the european commission on the weapons directive will only affect law-abiding people who already have a gun licence, but will in no way lead to an effective fight against the illegal arms trade and against terrorism, which was the alleged aim of the proposed legislative amendment. i believe the bill will result in the confiscation of a number of legally owned firearms from thousands of hunters and collectors who have never violated the law, but whose firearms will not meet the new requirements for the number of rounds in a magazine. the criteria for which weapons are allowed and which are forbidden are impractical and unreasonable. it is unacceptable that there is no initial impact assessment of the legislative proposal, given how many people it will affect. legal uncertainty will be created by the possibilities for different interpretations of the legislation in the member states. i also believe that the procedures for issuing weapons permits will also be made more difficult. however, the agreed text will not address the challenges and threats to european security, prevent future terrorist attacks or even facilitate the trade in arms in the single market. on the contrary, it will cause more harm to the legitimate owners. that's why i can't support it!
in writing. improving resource efficiency and creating an economy closer to a circular economy will bring environmental benefits and reduce our dependence on imported raw materials through their reuse. in addition, the circular economy model has the potential to create new jobs and generate sustainable growth by improving the competitiveness of european companies in the field of clean technologies and innovation. it's high time that this waste was seen as a resource. i believe that in our efforts to move towards a circular economy we need to set ambitious but realistic targets that take into account the existing waste management infrastructure as well as the differences in the level of development and use of technologies between member states. countries for which it is not realistic to achieve the targets within the time limits should be given additional time to achieve them. further investment will be required to achieve the new targets. the european commission should therefore support circular economy projects in the member states through the eu structural and investment funds.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, improving waste management has a clear positive impact on the environment and the health of european citizens. in the era of the circular economy, we must clearly realise that recycling and reusing more and more waste should become a mandatory and conscious element of our way of life and part of our economic culture. i therefore welcome the four commission legislative acts in this area, which deserve support. at the same time, and in the spirit of the european directives in this area, i consider it absolutely necessary to take account of the economic efficiency of the proposed measures in order to achieve a lower and more bearable social burden in the pursuit of recycling objectives. the overly ambitious targets set by parliament must also be accompanied by flexibility measures in the member states to achieve a socially acceptable cost in the implementation of this policy. it is hard to find anyone who would deny the need to recycle and reuse waste in a europe that is poor in natural resources and that needs to reduce its dependence on importing such resources. i therefore fully support the sensible approach and consistency in the implementation of the new measures.
equine husbandry is an important source of livelihood for a number of industries in europe such as agriculture, local tourism and ecotourism and, not least, equestrian sports and racing. in member states such as my own, bulgaria, horses are part of the daily lives and traditions of the local population. i therefore welcome the inclusion in the report of my proposal for more financial support for the conservation and protection of native breeds in view of the danger of their extinction. bulgarian breeds such as the karakachan, the east bulgarian, the danube and the pleven horses fall into this category and i believe that, like other native breeds, they should be protected and their breeding should be further financially stimulated. i also welcome the inclusion of my proposal for more educational and public initiatives targeting a wider segment of consumers and professionals. this would help to raise awareness of the challenges and opportunities in developing the sector. i call on the european commission to take concrete initiatives and measures in the short term in relation to the proposals in this report.
madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank you for your commitment to what is the cornerstone of our values as the european union, namely human rights. it is precisely because human rights are a long-standing struggle that we as the union must continue to work hard to defend and promote them. i have always wondered: what is our strength, what is the added value of our action? and that's where it gets tricky. it's the balance between acting, right now, in the urgency, and at the same time, the long-term commitment, the investment in the future. acting simultaneously on these two fronts makes our actions sometimes tricky, but our responsibility is greater and we must have the courage to do it on the "right now" by firmly denouncing the harassment, violent attacks and murders of human rights defenders. we must denounce them, including when they take place in partner countries, and it is precisely because these countries are partners that we must remind them that partnership implies rights but also obligations. i am thinking here of some african states, but my colleagues have also mentioned - and rightly so - other countries. today, the emergency is what is happening in south sudan, somalia, nigeria and yemen. the voice of the european union must be the conscience of all of us who consider it unacceptable to remain without trying to do more about the crises that are unfolding there. human lives depend on it. in the long run, i'm totally reversing the perspective. do you not think that today there is a need to give greater prominence to countries which have taken measures to prevent human rights violations and which offer remedies when such violations are committed? we also need to encourage them and not just focus on the problems. finally, our support is needed for the full and effective implementation of the horizon 2030 programme to achieve the development goals, including gender equality. investing in women's rights and empowerment is one of the most promising levers to fight poverty and to make a vital contribution to sustainable development for all of us.
the range of texts we are now discussing is extremely wide, but i would like to draw particular attention to two aspects. these are the controls on animal welfare and animal health requirements. both topics are extremely important as they directly affect the health of millions of european citizens and have a direct impact on the european economy. first, the controls on animal welfare requirements are closely linked to the issue of poor transport conditions of farm animals, both within the union itself and when transported from the european union to turkey and other third countries, which has become more prominent in recent years. with my colleagues from the intergroup on animal welfare, we have raised this issue with the european commission on several occasions, calling for more controls on this type of transport and strict compliance with all existing european regulations. this is important not only to protect animal welfare but also to protect the interest of european producers. better control means better safety for the animals themselves, which in turn would lead to less financial losses due to deaths during transport. you yourself understand that transporting tens of thousands of head of cattle each year can result in financial losses for producers amounting to millions of euros. secondly, better control of compliance with the rules on the transport of farmed animals will give greater certainty about their health and safety and hence the quality of the products from these animals and the whole food chain. this would be extremely beneficial in terms of preventing and reducing the risk of disease, both in the animals themselves and in humans. after all, human health is the highest priority. i therefore welcome the recommendations in the report and thank the committee and the rapporteur for a job well done.
in writing. this year marks the 60th anniversary of the signing of the treaties of rome. this gives us another opportunity to reflect on the state of the eu and its future. we certainly need some serious reforms. in the last few years, we have witnessed a wave of migration unprecedented in the history of the eu, threatening our security. europe has been the victim of brutal terrorist attacks in paris, brussels, nice, berlin. we must be able to protect our citizens. however, i do not see how this can be done with clumsy and ineffective legislative proposals. another example is the arms control directive. restricting the rights of our citizens to legally possess firearms will not stop terrorism because the individuals who commit these horrific acts did not legally acquire these weapons. the last few cases have shown us that these people are turning vehicles into weapons and are becoming more and more inventive. we have to be able to take action. effective measures. the eu's approach so far has proven to be ineffective. the liberal model of integration has failed. the eu and its leaders must stop turning a blind eye. we need urgent reforms before it's too late.
european citizens and their health and right to make informed choices must be at the heart of european union policies. this includes both food quality and food safety, and concerns about the cultivation and distribution of gmos, which the majority of bulgarians and europeans strongly oppose. in this context, i find it humiliating that food producers are sending food with worse performance to consumers in central and eastern europe. the european union is a single market in which there are equal obligations for all producers. bad food reflects bad public health. i strongly believe that bulgaria should not wait, that's why i call on the babh to complete the analyses in a short time so that it becomes clear who in europe treats us as second-hand europeans. a secondary quality of food for eastern europeans is corporate racism. he has to stop. that is why i supported this report. the bulgarians and bulgaria deserve better.
(the beginning of the speech is silenced) ... years. it creates an urgent need for the european union to stabilise the region in its neighbourhood, the western balkans, the eastern partnership, north africa and the middle east. this requires that the common security and defence policy ceases to be a paper tiger and is filled with substance. a common capacity to ensure the security of the european continent is needed, without duplicating nato's activities. this includes strengthening resilience against hybrid threats, including propaganda threats, contributing to border security, as well as actions related to cybersecurity, energy and maritime security. european citizens expect solutions from us, and let's not fool ourselves - if we don't offer them, there are plenty of others on the far left and far right who will offer and try to get support. we need political will. i welcome the decision to establish a permanent headquarters for planning and conducting operations, which is an important step towards a defence union. it is important to speed up the work on establishing permanent structured cooperation, which should, however, be open to all the countries of the european union who wish to do so. no side should be excluded.
on behalf of the ppe group. with the european union turning to its own internal problems and the recent changes in washington, a political vacuum has emerged in the western balkans, allowing russia to increase its influence in the region. this influence leads to a strengthening of russia's geopolitical presence and calls into question the euro-atlantic orientation of the countries of the region. on the other hand, corruption, dependent media and inefficient judicial systems in a number of countries in the region allow certain leaders to fuel tensions through nationalistic rhetoric and inter-ethnic confrontation, posing as saviors of the nation, while at the same time this rhetoric is a cover for economic crimes and illegal activities. in the balkan vacuum that has opened up, such nationalist sparks as the referendum in bosnia, the coup attempt in montenegro, the nationalist rhetoric in serbia against eu member states like bulgaria, the situation in macedonia, are not harmless. on the one hand, we must send a strong signal that the countries of the region have their european perspective and that with a specific timeframe. on the other hand, we must encourage them to curb nationalist rhetoric, anti-democratic abuses and corruption and to pursue reforms in various sectors to meet the membership criteria. in this regard, it is equally important to continue supporting the euro-atlantic integration of the western balkans, as this is key to the stability and progress of the region. in 2016, we opened the door for montenegro to become a member of the alliance. so far, 25 members have signed the accession protocol to allow montenegro to become the 29th member of nato. montenegro has made steady progress in the negotiation process, with 26 chapters currently open. i welcome the reform of public administration and public finance management, the creation of the anti-corruption agency and the full alignment of the country's foreign policy with the common security and defence policy. i call for support for mr tannock's report and especially the amendments which support the direction of montenegro to remain on the path of euro-atlantic development.
you know how many threats the european union faces, and i think the best response to those threats is continued enlargement of the union. i would like to draw particular attention to the fact that montenegro's accession to the european union will have a very positive impact on its neighbours, albania and serbia, as well as bulgaria's neighbour macedonia. i also want to say that i hope that during the bulgarian presidency, which will be in a year's time, we will already have more closed heads than open ones, and i also hope that there will be a very clear horizon and a concrete timeframe for the admission of montenegro, because when we mention that no new countries will be admitted until 2020, we are not encouraging candidates for membership of the european union. i also want to express, after hearing the statements of many of my colleagues, my confidence that montenegro has many true and sincere friends in the european parliament.
in writing. just a few weeks ago, mr juncker launched one of the biggest debates in eu history the debate on the future of europe. the scenarios he proposes are extremely diverse and it is really important for each european to consider them for himself in order to choose how we want our continent to develop. but when we talk about digital europe, i see only one way forward, and that is to standardise the regulatory framework, to make the most of the development of the digital economy and to enforce the free movement of data in europe. in order to complete this technological reality, it is necessary that our societies are also updated to the latest version. as well as being important to be technically literate, it is also key that democracy in europe evolves through e-government, e-participation and e-voting. e-democracy means strengthening traditional democratic practices and enhancing the transparency of governance processes. i am glad that the desi index has reported on the achievements of the bulgarian government of boyko borisov in the field of e-government and open data and that in the 2019 european parliament elections, as a bulgarian, i will be able to vote technologically neutral via a smartphone, tablet or computer, both from bulgaria and from brussels.
dear visitors to the european parliament, the services of the 'e-democracy' package provide access to faster business start-ups, faster training and are also an important element of the infrastructure for the effective exchange of good practices. however, implementation requires resources in the development of digital infrastructure and human capital such as teachers and learners. investments should also be made in developing skills to combat online fraud, fake news and other forms of abuse and manipulation of content. i believe that the european union must set the tone for tackling these global challenges. in the digital age, e-government and e-administration must be accessible to all, without, of course, neglecting the security considerations of personal data protection. however, i believe that citizens who have either limited access to electronic services or are unable to use them should not be overlooked. electronic services must be accessible, but not exclusive of a form of access to information. citizens, regardless of their age and computer literacy, are citizens and have rights, and they should be respected.
in writing. – there is no doubt that the eu and its member states need more solidarity particularly in the wake of financial and refugee crises that hit europe. namely in this context, the setting up of a european solidarity corps (esc) has been seen by many politicians and analysts as the right initiative that will put into practice eu values of solidarity. this is so because the esc aims to create opportunities for young people to volunteer or work in projects in their own country or abroad that benefit communities and people around europe. nevertheless, the esc should not replace existing, successful initiatives like the european voluntary service (evs) but rather, to reinforce and complement them. expressed in other words, the esc should avoid duplication or replacement of existing programmes and tools. in addition, i would like to stress that the esc should ensure that volunteering, despite the fact that can provide valuable experience, will not replace paid forms of employment. i warmly welcome the intention of the esc to spread solidarity among young europeans (particularly young generations) but we should bear in mind that our prime goal is to create sustainable long—term employment opportunities for many unemployed young europeans, the eu’s lost generation.
madam president, palm oil is becoming more widely used because of its cheaper price as a raw material compared to similar products, but this saving in the cost of this raw material will be reflected in the many times higher public health costs from both the national budgets and the price that consumers will have to pay. i find it shocking that palm oil is used in the production of baby food. experts estimate that 50% of all food in the european union contains palm oil. the european food safety authority has recently published information that the product is carcinogenic and genotoxic. the bad practices are clearly being undertaken by unscrupulous producers, but that is why the european commission must intervene and ban the use of the raw material in the food industry. last year alone, in my country, bulgaria, 12,000 tons were used in the food industry.
in writing. the brazilian beef import scandal is just the tip of the iceberg. with each regulation in the field of agriculture, we create more and more conditions for european producers. at the same time, however, we are opening up more and more imports from third countries of a number of products. europe must be a guarantor of income stability for european cattle farmers, not a destination for production of dubious quality and standards from other parts of the world. i believe that the european commission's flirtation with third countries through so-called free trade agreements must stop. european agriculture is losing its competitiveness, rural regions are losing their livelihoods precisely because of agreements like the one being prepared with mercosur, of which brazil is a member. in 2016, the eu imported 66 thousand tonnes of fresh and frozen beef from brazil alone. livestock is a sector that employs local labour and raw materials, creating a livelihood for several sectors. more protection for european producers means a stronger european agriculture, more local production and better quality.
madam president, the european environment agency estimates that about 15 thousand premature deaths in bulgaria in 2013 were due to concentrations of pollutants in the air. for years, we have heard from gerb representatives how well and successfully bulgaria has been governed and how well european funds are being used. success can't be based on self-esteem. facts speak louder than words. the premature deaths clearly give a real assessment of the 'success' of gerb's management over the years. in addition to the thousands of health-related deaths, the financial costs of air pollution in bulgaria are over 3 billion euros per year, which also includes the direct costs to the economy. over the years, gerbs have spent thousands of euros in legal costs to challenge commission decisions instead of making the air better for their own citizens. this luxury will now have to be paid by bulgarian citizens, however, after the confirmation of the decision of the court of justice of the european union in two days. and the bulgarians suffered and were harmed, and that's thanks to gerb. think about the citizens, fellow gerb members, not about how to present the stick-music for a more successful government.
in writing. i support measures to reduce pollutant emissions from motor vehicles. the scandal of the falsified results of laboratory tests has shown that there is an urgent need for changes in the emission measurement rules to bring the tests closer to real road conditions. the introduction of stricter conditions for the type-approval of motor vehicles in the european union and stronger european supervision are measures that will lead to improvements in air quality and public health. air pollution causes the premature death of over 400 000 europeans every year. one of the main sources of greenhouse gases is cars. that's why i support the introduction of sanctions for car manufacturers who falsify test results. the revenue from administrative fines should be used to support market surveillance, consumer compensation and environmental protection. the problem of emissions is not just a problem for car owners, but for the health of all european citizens.
madam president, palm oil is a raw material which is used not only in the production of biofuels but also in the food industry. experts estimate that about 50% of all food in the european union contains palm oil. unfortunately, in my country bulgaria, there has been an increase in the import of palm oil in the last few years, which also implies a wider use of the product in the various sectors. tempted by the lower value of food products that use palm oil, lower-income consumers are unwitting victims of this substitution, for example, of real dairy ingredients with plant-based ones. this increases the risk of poor health and therefore the burden, both on the consumer himself and on the state through the national budget. in the name of the public health of the bulgarian people, i call on the bulgarian food safety agency to take swift steps to ban the use of raw materials in the food flavor industry.
the role of women in rural areas is often underestimated. that is why i supported the report and the calls in it. women play a very important role in preserving cultural and culinary traditions in rural areas. the preservation of these traditions can contribute to the construction and strengthening of regional identity in rural areas, which in turn helps to develop local livelihoods and tourism. in this context, i would like to emphasise the role of european quality schemes, and in particular geographical indication schemes, through which traditional and local products can be protected. in many cases, these products might not have been part of our living culinary heritage if it hadn't been for the spirit of women who passed on knowledge through the generations. as a socialist, i believe that equality between men and women must be guaranteed. rural areas must once again become a dignified place to live, where young people, including women, can find fulfillment and sustenance, and where older people can welcome and live out their old age with dignity.
mr president, i will not support this report because it proposes the wrong solutions. this report shows once again that nothing new is learned and nothing old is forgotten. the solutions it proposes are unworkable, and time has shown it. he showed that these measures don't work, he showed that those who carried out the attacks in european countries had gone through these so-called "integration measures". the result is in sight. we must not encourage illegal immigration with these proposals in the report! on the contrary, we must strengthen the security of europe, we must strengthen the external borders, we must make it clear to a hostile and aggressive turkey, ruled by a man who does not respect any democratic rules and procedures, that this will not work! the report is flawed and offers the wrong solutions. and this is another one of those reports in this room, where as we're talking about this, all of this is happening on the streets of europe, only it's not visible from this room. once again, i won't support it!
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, this has been a very interesting and warming debate. indeed, ensuring a joined—up approach among all the eu actors concerned, as well as with member states, is something i personally consider vital for the success of the partnership framework approach. i take note that that majority of the honourable members support our approach on solidarity with migrants and on cooperation with partner countries on migration, and i am very grateful for this support. while thanking you again both for the report and for this fruitful exchange of views, let me reassure you that your concerns raised in the report, as well as during our debate, are duly noted and will be taken into consideration when working together on our external actions addressing refugee and migrant movements.
in writing. for a successful european asylum policy, it is crucial to distinguish between economic migrants who come to europe solely in search of better economic prospects and those who seek protection by fleeing conflicts. if we can give the latter refuge, we have no obligation to the former. however, the european union cannot tackle the migration crisis alone, because it is a global problem, and solving it requires close cooperation with other countries. the european union therefore needs to negotiate and sign more readmission agreements to return irregular migrants quickly. cooperation with countries of origin and transit must also be strengthened to break up the trafficking networks that bring thousands of people to europe. however, the most successful way of working with countries of origin is to strengthen economic ties and provide more aid so as to create a long-term perspective for economic growth and jobs in poorer countries. this is precisely the role of european foreign policy and financial instruments, which can help us turn the migration crisis into an opportunity for rapid development in the countries of africa and the middle east.
in writing. – eu external action plays a key role in forging a successful common migration policy. some argue that agreements with third countries are crucial, the most recent examples being the eu-turkey deal and eu-afghanistan joint way forward. our experience, however, has shown that such initiatives can embolden autocratic regimes in their ambition to consolidate power in internal and external context. the lessons from the deal with turkey are clear. we cannot trade cooperation on migration for closing our eyes to obvious violations of the european values, unacceptable statements targeting the european project or direct political interference in member states. such partnerships cannot serve as an excuse for europe not to reform its policies in a swift, bold and comprehensive way. this direction could cost us our credibility among the european citizens, who want to see effective management on a european level where the burden is shared fairly among everyone. instead of outsourcing the problem to our immediate neighbourhood or conditioning aid, we should pursue sustainable cooperation in areas of common interest and support countries of origin and transit in achieving peace and prosperity by creating economic opportunities for their citizens, making migration a choice and not a necessity.
mr. president, i would like to the chairman, mr the commissioner, mr first of all, mr minister, i would like to express my support for the proposed change to the multiannual financial framework, as i consider that the draft regulation amending the multiannual financial framework is an important step towards optimising the implementation of the budget of the european union and in preparing the future multiannual financial framework after 2020. the project enshrines the principle of maximising budgetary flexibility to address unforeseen problems and circumstances. increasing the ceilings for adjusting the payment ceilings for the years 2018 to 2020 within the overall payment margin, and removing the ceilings for policy objectives relating to growth and employment, in particular youth employment, and migration and security, is a step in the right direction. the proposal also addresses the possible build-up of unpaid bills and a new payment crisis resulting from the delay in the implementation of operational programmes.
mr president, at the beginning i would like to congratulate mr olbrycht and ms thomas for their dedication and work. i think we have a reason to be positive tonight. i am proud that i am part of parliament, managing to achieve a historical breakthrough, managing to achieve a top-up agreement above the mff in the remaining three years of that mff. this is how we are going to provide additional funding for programmes such as the connecting europe facility (cef), erasmus, cosme, efsi, youth employment initiative, and so on and so forth. in my view, this is not expenditure, this is not spending, this is an investment in the future of this union. this is what it is, and this is a success, nothing but success. i do believe that efsi is a working initiative. it is providing results as it was designed to do, but i am convinced that structural and investment funds should remain a key source of financing of large infrastructure projects in the developing regions in the countries where this is needed.
madam president, the time for regrets is over. the process of the uk leaving the european union is under way. what we need is sober heads, good faith, but also a very clear mandate from the european institutions. this is what this house is doing today. first and foremost, we should aim to overcome the uncertainty regarding the lives of both eu citizens on the island and uk citizens in the european union. their lives should not be used as a bargaining chip, as has been underlined many times. there is also the issue of security cooperation, which is beneficial for both sides in this process. second, trading freely would be in everyone’s interest, but the uk cannot have a better deal outside the union and the single market than it has currently. in any future arrangement, the uk will have to play by the same rules as everyone else. third, last but not least, we must also urgently launch debates on how the eu of 27 will adjust its budget, its policies and its institutions after uk withdrawal, in order to respond to the expectations for our citizens.
madam president, the decision of the people of the united kingdom is legal and sovereign. no one who claims to respect the rules of democracy can claim otherwise. any attempt to punish, humiliate and harm british citizens is deeply wrong. it will be an admission of the failure of the federalist attempt at policy and it shows a guilty conscience. the united kingdom is our friend, ally and partner, a pillar of our common defence in extremely difficult times. northern ireland and gibraltar are without doubt an integral part of the united kingdom and no such question can be raised. what needs to be achieved and worked out in the negotiations, and they will be between the heads of state and government, is a good, fair and fair deal in the relationship between the european union and the united kingdom. a deal to safeguard the rights and legitimate interests of british citizens in the territory of the union and of citizens of european countries in the united kingdom. that's it. nothing more and nothing less.
in writing. while many politicians in the uk and around the world mistakenly believe that brexit came about with the june 2016 referendum or the triggering of article 50 of the eu treaties in march 2017, it should be clear to all that the uk remains a full member of the eu until the exit negotiations are completed. all legal and financial obligations remain in force until the official withdrawal. since the agreement reached at the end of the negotiations requires the consent of the european parliament to enter into force, the position we adopt today must be reflected in the negotiations. first, for us in the european people's party, it will always be the citizens. that is why we place at the heart of our position the guarantee of fair and equal treatment for eu citizens living in the uk and for uk citizens living in the eu. i want to stress that no one wants to punish britain. on the contrary, we will all benefit from an effective agreement on our future relationship and british participation in the single market. but this can only be done if the four freedoms of the internal market - the free movement of goods, capital, services and people - are respected as indivisible.
a week ago was a sad day for europe. sad because one member state has officially announced that it is leaving the largest organisation guaranteeing stability and prosperity in europe. this decision will have consequences for millions of europeans, as well as for the several million british citizens residing in the european union and for all union citizens living in the united kingdom. the rubicon has been crossed! from 2019, the union will be 27 member states, but that does not mean that the rights of european and british citizens should disappear overnight. many people and some politicians are trying to use the migration map as an element of uncertainty and a bargaining chip. it's irresponsible and frivolous. for decades, all these european citizens, including bulgarians, have contributed to the development and prosperity of the british economy and society. i call on the british government not to create uncertainty for millions of european citizens, among whom are my fellow citizens, by using or even tolerating rhetoric that increases people's fear of their social rights.
mr vice-president, the abolition of roaming charges is an undeniable and key victory for us as consumers in the european union. i am pleased that with tomorrow's vote we will be able to finalise the process and be part of a stronger digital single market and single market this summer. the new wholesale roaming caps mean a few other very important things: first, they create competition between operators and open markets to smaller operators who need our support to be an active part of our economy. they also give us the ability to use the internet more while we're traveling, working, shopping. the abolition of roaming charges also coincides with the mid-term assessment of the progress of the digital single market strategy. this is why it is important to build on what has been achieved so far by ensuring the portability of online content and the removal of unjustified geo-blocking. it is also crucial that we actively work towards the free movement of data in the union and thus have another victory for our consumers and businesses. i believe that by working together we will ensure that all european citizens, administrations and businesses have adequate protection for their online activities.
mr president, i believe that we should pay full attention to three people who are on the spot and have been trying to help dialogue for a year: ex—premier zapatero and presidents fernandez and torrijos. as they point out, what is in question is a deep political and social antagonism dating back over 20 years. they point out five concrete steps to overcome this situation: first, an election schedule; second, a consensual commission for the truth; third, institutional respect on the basis of the constitution; fourth, cooperation on social and economic issues, and respect for national sovereignty on the basis of international support. and they point out that this is possible only with caution, discretion, persistence, trust and the will for dialogue. we should listen to these people who are on the spot and who, with all their wisdom, are showing us the right way to solve this tragic situation.
member of the commission. – madam president, the political leaders of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia now have the urgent responsibility to take the necessary steps to put their country back on the eu track. this is what the vast majority of their citizens want. too much time has been lost. the continued crisis is already taking a heavy economic and financial toll. a government must be formed now. all parties must implement their own political agreement and tackle the urgent reform priorities as agreed. the commission remains highly committed to the european perspective of the country but let me be clear, the key to this eu perspective is in the hands of the president and local leaders. only they can put the country back on the path to europe. we cannot and will not do their job for them. thank you very much for your attention and for this constructive and forward-looking debate on the report.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, let me first express my sincere gratitude also for the excellent work and commitment of the rapporteur, and also his important recent efforts with mr fleckenstein and mr kukan. the council, as i stated in my introduction, attaches great importance to moving forward with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. however, we remain seriously concerned as to the fragile domestic political situation, which was also highlighted by many of the speakers in tonight’s debate. the need for a constructive dialogue extends to all parts of the political scene, most notably to the main political parties. in this regard, we count on the continued support of the european parliament in calling on all the leaders to cooperate in good faith and to overcome the current impasse and to put the country back on the reform track. i thank you once again for the opportunity to participate in this debate.
in writing. i thank my colleagues for the constructive work they have done on this report. i am firmly convinced that both i and the group of the european economic community support macedonia's aspirations to membership of the european union. unfortunately, the elections did not resolve the problem and the country fell into an even more severe political crisis on the verge of ethnic conflict. the absence of a government is holding back the accession process and is dragging the country back. all political parties must recognize the election result, but the formation of a government cannot be done at any cost. the so-called albanian platform is clearly foreign interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign state. the political crisis that has engulfed our neighbour can only be overcome with the support of bulgaria and the eu. i believe that the republic of macedonia should first guarantee the rights of bulgarians in macedonia through legislative changes and only then look at the albanian platform, because at the moment the albanian community is recognized by the authorities and is even represented by the two ethnic parties dsi and dpa, while the bulgarians do not have their own representation and are not recognized by any state body. the republic of macedonia's path to the eu goes through good relations with sofia, and i think the same goes for overcoming the political crisis.
in writing. i join the call for better eu performance on women's health commitments as an eu priority during the 61st session of the un commission on the status of women. i think that ensuring global health really should be a major focus for world leaders, including towards targeted assistance in terms of reproductive health, health education and educating young women. these topics are of fundamental relevance to demographic problems and demographic policies of states and should be developed and applied in a differentiated manner, through reciprocal action, in the specific circumstances of demographic processes in the world. i hope that the council will continue to urge our international partners to cooperate more and to focus on this area.
in writing. – i would like to express my deep concern about recently adopted higher education law that could force the central european university (ceu) out of hungary, the so-called ‘stop brussels’ national consultation and the law on foreign funded ngos. i believe the commission should closely monitor these three proposals, which in reality constitute another attempt by the hungarian government to strengthen its grip on power and in this manner to disrespect union’s common values and the treaty on european union. unfortunately, recent actions taken by hungarian prime minister victor orbán and his government signal that they intentionally continue to damage hungary’s democracy and its relationship with other eu member states. therefore, i call on the eu institutions and the member states to start intensive political talks with the hungarian authorities in order to ensure that country’s legislation is compatible with union’s one. last but not least, i call on hungarian authorities to listen to the voice of its pro-european orientated citizens who marched against these three proposals and who want their fundamental eu rights as eu citizens to be respected and protected.
in writing. i cannot remain indifferent to the worrying developments in hungary, especially the recently adopted higher education law, which threatens the existence of the central european university. i fully support the efforts of the rector of ceu, a number of intellectuals and former and current students, some of whom have written to me asking me to defend the principle of academic freedom and the functioning of the university in the european parliament. i'm glad we're not alone in this fight. the european commission has today decided to open an infringement procedure against hungary. the position of the european commissioner for education, tibor navracsics, of hungary, broadcast by your government, is also significant in that the central european university is one of the most important universities not only in hungary but also at european level. universities are places of free and critical thinking that should be defended, not attacked. universities were the place where the battle against communism began for thousands of young people in defense of freedom. many years ago, you were one of them!
in writing. the proposal on work-life balance creates a number of new minimum standards. two aspects that i find extremely important are the new standards for childcare and carer's leave. this is extremely necessary, especially for countries with a growing population, such as my own bulgaria, unfortunately. i also strongly support the proposal for a more flexible approach to working conditions for parents of children under 12. it is an initiative that responds to changing patterns of work and will not only give more flexibility to workers, but will also enable better economic outcomes for businesses. today's more flexible employment arrangements provide new job opportunities, especially for young people, but can potentially lead to new insecurity and inequality. in this context, i sincerely hope that the consultations with the social partners that have begun will help to find the right approach for a good balance between social security and growth potential. i think that the proposals made today by the european commission are in the right direction and i support them. i call on the member states to take appropriate measures for legislative initiatives that will contribute to better working conditions for workers.
in writing. – i welcome the long-overdue legislative and non-legislative proposals put forward today by the commission on the european pillar of social rights and the reflection paper on the social dimension of europe. i sincerely hope that today we are breaking with austerity. the broader debate on #futureofeurope should not be about new speed(s), but about a new direction, which should be a social one. contrary to what the commission suggests, however, i believe upward social convergence is in the interest of all mss and eu citizens – better standards only for the eurozone or a coalition of the willing is simply not an option, as it will further fragment the single market and labour conditions throughout the eu. while making the social pillar a reality will require the efforts of member states, eu institutions and social partners alike, the progressive family will continue to push for our flagship initiatives such as establishing a child guarantee, which were not reflected in the present proposal. the urgent need for economic and social reform prompts us to spare no effort towards reducing economic imbalances by promoting investment and actively supporting the creation of growth and decent jobs with strong social rights throughout the eu.
in writing. the referendum on constitutional reform in turkey is another and probably the last blow to the republic built by mustafa kemal ataturk. the venice commission criticised the proposed reforms, stating that they were contrary to the fundamental principles of the separation of powers and did not comply with the copenhagen criteria. today, europe is threatened by erdogan and putin, who are cooperating and showing closeness with their increasingly frequent meetings. an axis of evil is being formed that is preparing to redraw syria's borders and also to crush the kurdish population that has been fighting for years for their own state. erdogan has attacked the political representation of the kurds, ordering the arrest of the two co-chairs and nine other mps of the peoples' democratic party. this new sultan fired nearly 28,000 teachers, principals and student teachers, and more recently arrested another 3,000 people who were declared "gulenists". i think the position of the high representative of the union and the european leaders towards the rising neo-ottomanism is too soft. it is time for europe to build a strategy to protect our external borders by supporting countries like bulgaria and greece that border hostile turkey. i also think that europe should present a plan to stabilize the region, not to accommodate the dictator erdogan and his threats.
in writing. what is happening in turkey directly affects the european union, because as a candidate member, an important trading partner, a regional power and a member of nato, the country is too important to remain neutral. the constitutional reforms adopted are a threat to democracy in turkey one of the copenhagen accession criteria, and logically cause concern among civil society. that is why the european union must prove to all those who voted against the referendum that it will not accept the collapse of democracy in turkey and will continue to support the defence of democratic values. at the same time, the eu must continue its dialogue with turkey on important issues such as migration and the fight against terrorism, but without allowing itself to be pressured by turkey. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom and the united states on the application of the principle of proportionality. i also call on turkey to adopt the necessary internal changes that will allow the application of the readmission agreement in its part for third-country nationals something that does not depend on the form of government. last but not least, it is essential to maintain cooperation and exchange of information on terrorists in order to prevent future terrorist acts in europe.
mr president, structural reforms have been around since the beginning of the crisis at the beginning of 2008, so i am happy that we now have that proposal. i would like to congratulate mr van nistelrooij for his contribution and for significantly improving this proposal. i am sure it will become a powerful tool in the future, but, at the same time, i have modest expectations because of the limited budget for this proposal. i have several thoughts about the future of this programme. if it is to be prolonged after 2020, it should have a separate budget line and not use cohesion fund sources. it should not replace existing technical assistance programmes that we have under operational programmes, and, in the end, we should use country—specific recommendations to encourage member states, but not to punish them. last, but not least, this programme should have an annual evaluation in order to follow its progress.
in writing. – i am glad that today we adopted the structural reforms support programme 2017-2020. this is a great tool to stimulate reforms in the eu countries which in turn is essential for the growth of our economies. long-term solutions is what europe needs to provide if it wants to tackle problems such as unemployment and social exclusion. what is key in this process is that the governments who will benefit from this programme understand that their ownership in carrying out structural reforms is irreplaceable if they are to pursue smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the final goal of participation in this programme should be to stimulate investment in the real economy and competitiveness by improving conditions in sectors like taxation, administrative reform, justice, anti-corruption, competition, innovation, education and training. i am glad that the programme gives the opportunity to mobilise expertise across member states and tap on existing good practices. although this tool uses existing technical assistance resources under the european structural and investment funds it will be an additional incentive for structural reforms in states where national budgets need to be complemented.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on regional development. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commissioner, mr minister, mr president of the court of auditors, the regional policy committee regi has discussed and adopted its opinion on the european commission's 2015 discharge report. we made a number of findings and recommendations, and i am pleased that they found their way into the final report we are discussing today. first, we emphasise that the error rate in cohesion policy is decreasing, and this is the result of the efforts of both the member states and the european commission. the main sources of error are unfortunately the same: public procurement, eligibility and state aid rules. the fact that there is a decrease in payment applications, which reduces both the error rate and the payment rate, but at the same time puts at risk the budget implementation for the entire programming period, is a matter of concern. i would like to thank the court of auditors in particular for the way it has prepared the report and for the emphasis it has placed on impact and results.
mr president, i would like to begin by congratulating the eib and the court of auditors for their work for european prosperity, and ms gräßle for her dedication to better discharge procedure. in the future, i would like to see more analytical information and data – for example, in the eib annual report – rather than just technical data. numbers are beautiful, but what matters is the results – to make countries richer and people’s lives better. for example, i would like to see more concrete information on how eib financial instruments make access to smes for funding, especially when it comes to higher-risk projects. i would like to see how eib instruments are making the achievement of europe 2020 goals better and faster. i am sure more transparency and better evaluation of higher risk projects is crucial. last, but not least, to call efsi really good, it should be worked adequately across europe.
rapporteur. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs from all political groups for their constructive attitude and valuable contribution during the preparation of this report. the european investment bank is a long—standing financing partner of the eu institutions, contributing to eu integration, economic and social cohesion and regional development through dedicated investment instruments. the european investment fund and the european fund for strategic investments play a key role in complementing the eib’s interventions. the cathartic effect of the eib’s fund raising is a key element in defining eu debt added value and ensuring that europe remains a leading player worldwide in terms of competitiveness, innovation, infrastructure and attractiveness. based on the above—mentioned, the main elements of the report are as follows: firstly, enhancing the sustainability of the eib’s investment policy. in 2015 there was eur 77.5 billion worth of operations out of which eur 69.7 billion went to eu member states and eur 7.8 billion went outside the eu. the consistency of the eib’s finance activities with the eu’s general strategy and political priority areas is of indisputable importance. the eib is a core actor needed to revitalise the eu economy and maximise the effectiveness and value for money of available financial resources. it is necessary for the eib to systematically pay attention to mid— and long—term effects when defining investment actions and its funding decisions and to investing in projects of systematic importance in the long term. while there is a need to speed up economic recovery and to help certain economic sectors in geographic areas catch up, it is important to have a balanced strategy with a dynamic and transparent geographic distribution of projects and investments amongst eu member states. also, it is important that corresponding banks in the member states, in order to facilitate small and medium—sized businesses, should act so as not to complicate the criteria and the rules. secondly, monitoring the eib’s impact in the implementation of key public policy areas, and the report on the results and impact of eib operations inside the eu in 2015 reveals that the investments are in the following key areas: innovation and skills, small and medium—sized enterprises and mid-cap companies, infrastructure and environment. the eib should continue to define its monitoring indicators, in particular with regard to supporting eu policies. with this comes also the importance of the eib’s contribution to the management of global issues. thirdly, monitoring of the efsi’s added value and additionality: thus efsi aims at leveraging through the eib a total of eur 350 billion in extra investment, in new projects, and the eib group is developing various new products that will allow for higher risk-takings. in this regard, result-driven investment should be regularly assessed through the scoreboard of indicators by the investment committee. the goal is to identify well— targeted projects in terms of their contribution to growth and jobs and to have an objective overview of their additionality, added value and consistency with eu policies. fourthly, deepening the eib’s transparency, accountability and international control is a prerequisite for better corporate governance. the eib’s operations must be accompanied by a greater transparency and deepened accountability so as to ensure genuine public scrutiny of its activities, project selection and funding priorities. transparency in the implementation of eu policy leads to strengthening the eib’s overall corporate accountability and credibility. it also contributes to enhancing the effectiveness and sustainability of the funded projects, alongside the zero-tolerance approach to fraud and corruption in its loan portfolio. it is important for the eib to pursue its fight against tax evasion, tax fraud and avoidance, irregular activities and money laundering. bearing in mind the role of the eib to finance a broad spectrum of activities inside and outside the eu, and the significance of this financing for economic growth, it is important that this institution fulfil its activities to the highest possible standards. finally, regarding the previous recommendations of parliament, the eib should report on their state of play and status, especially with respect to the impact of its lending activities.
madam president, may i first join in expressing my very sincere appreciation at the participation of president hoyer in this morning’s debate and at his general commitment to a very substantive ongoing relationship with parliament. one issue that you mentioned at the beginning of your intervention this morning, president hoyer, has to do with the continuing significant differences as to regional gaps, having to do with the investment gap, and this clearly is a central challenge for the union as such, since we face the existential over-arching challenge of increasing divergences. so we come to the subject of cohesion, and i have raised this issue in previous part—sessions. in this regard, i would like to express my appreciation for the information which you mentioned also coming from the bank on issues raised in previous sessions. regarding cohesion, i have received information which recognises that the 30% horizontal goal for cohesion investments has not been reached over the past two years. in 2015, it was 26.5% and in in 2016 it was 27%. clearly there is awareness of the importance of this objective. however, i would invite you to consider whether enough practical steps have been taken to better manage cohesion objectives because it is not only a question of better reporting, but of very carefully looking into the way of actually interacting with the commission, if you like, to devise the proper policy responses. thank you for letting me make this point, i very much look forward to the ongoing discussion. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you for this question. you raise the issue of transparency, and i would extend it to include conflict of interests. in this regard, i would like to draw attention to two paragraphs in mr ali’s report – paragraphs 75 and 76. one deals with the concerns of the european ombudsman about the shortcomings in mechanisms to prevent possible conflicts of interest in the eib, and the other (paragraph 76) makes the point that there should be a revision of the make—up of the vice—presidents, because they come from only some of the member states.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like first of all to thank all the colleagues who took part in the discussion today for their contribution, and i would also like to thank all the colleagues who will take part during the whole process of work on the report, including the discussions in the meetings of the committee on budgetary control, providing amendment suggestions that will be very useful for the finalisation of the report. we have seen today during the debate that all the issues which had been raised by colleagues have taken their places in the in the report. i think that is why it was very useful. i would like also to express my appreciation to the leadership of the european investment bank for the responsiveness of its representatives, who took part in the meetings and promptly provided, in detail, all the necessary information that was requested for the preparation of this report. having in mind our enormous common goals, the shared level of cooperation between the european parliament and the european investment bank should be increased, as has been stated by mr hoyer. thank you once more, and this cooperation will be beneficial to all european citizens.
madam president, i supported the proposal for a regulation establishing a programme to support structural reforms for the period 2017-2020. a large number of member states are facing the challenge of weak economic growth following the severe crisis they have experienced. this is why the implementation of structural reforms is key to stimulating growth and supporting the convergence process. not only is the design of legislation important, but its effective implementation is also. at the same time, i am firmly of the opinion that the budget allocated to the programme should not set precedents for the financing of future initiatives by the european commission under the cohesion policy. i also think it should be monitored annually for its effectiveness. in conclusion, i would like to add that the programme should also be open to regional and local authorities, especially as the recommendations under the european semester are sometimes directed at them.
madam president, i supported the proposal to establish a european year of cultural heritage in 2018 because it is our rich cultural heritage that is the driving force for the social and economic development of the european union. i believe that this initiative will give a positive boost and visibility to a sector that has been largely neglected due to the financial and economic crisis. the protection of cultural heritage must be on the political agenda, and not just in 2018. the cultural and creative industries create 12 million jobs, equivalent to 7,5% of the union's workforce. despite the huge economic potential at their disposal, only the creative europe programme and the european fund for strategic investments have identified this sector as a priority. i therefore support the position that a separate financial resource should be allocated to implement the european year of cultural heritage. the success of the initiative should not be at the expense of other successful programmes in the field of culture.
madam president, statistics show that in the european union only 3% of farmers control 52.5% of the agricultural land. in bulgaria, the statistics are even more worrying only 1.5% of all registered farms cultivate 82% of the country's land. these holdings concentrate the main financial resources. european subsidies need to reach a wider number of beneficiaries in order to achieve balanced and equitable growth in the union. land can be property, but it's also a public good, from which social obligations arise. i strongly believe that land, whether state or municipal, should not be sold. instead only be rented: rented to start-up farmers, young farmers or rented to small farms. by preserving the land, it allows for the right direction when needed.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the comprehensive report and the commissioner on her statement. we are still struggling to overcome the effects of the recent financial and economic crisis and some of the consequences associated with the decrease in confidence of european citizens towards the institutions. this dramatically increases the role of the protection of the european union’s financial interests as one of the most relevant ways to restore its attractiveness. in the relevant annual report 2015 there are several aspects that are of the utmost importance for the achievement of the main goal of the protection of the eu’s financial interests. firstly, the total number of irregularities detected both by the commission and the member states is increasing for a second consecutive year. while there could be different reasons for this fact – including better control, an increased level of spending or simply a rise in fraudulent activities – we need better preventive work by the institutions. secondly, the anti-fraud measures undertaken by the eu institutions in member states should target both the revenue and expenditure sides of the budget. the final goal is to secure better revenue permitting the implementation of stronger policies, while keeping the irregularities in expenditure under control increases the credibility of the institutions. thirdly, from a managerial point of view, we need a full implementation of a budget focused on results strategy. in the process of designing and implementing management and control systems, cost effectiveness should be pursued. this means that the control strategies should target predominantly the areas with a high risk and error rate. thus the control would support the achievement of results without imposing an excessive administrative burden on beneficiaries. finally, i would like to underline again the importance of the efforts made by both the commission and member states in the protection of the eu’s financial interests. all of the fraudulent cases raise public attention and damage the reputation of the union. the proper functioning of the preventive and corrective mechanisms and adequate action taken by the commission services to protect the eu budget are indispensable in achieving major results in the fight against fraud.
madam president, i fully support the revision of the european qualifications framework for lifelong learning, because i believe that this will improve transparency and comparability between qualifications obtained in different member states. in an age of rapidly evolving technologies and a constantly changing labour market, european citizens need a wide range of skills to help them develop professionally. unfortunately, qualifications acquired abroad, as well as skills developed outside the formal education system, remain unrecognised and undervalued. european citizens suffer because it limits their opportunities for professional development, recruitment and promotion. for these reasons, i believe that the review of the framework should result in greater visibility of skills acquired outside the classroom. at present, only the netherlands and sweden have established procedures for the recognition of informal qualifications. i call on member states to give more visibility to informal and independent learning, including volunteering, in national qualifications frameworks, because this will provide more opportunities for young people to fulfil their potential.
in writing. food waste is a global problem, with the fao estimating that approximately one third of all food produced for consumption in the world is lost or wasted every year. in the eu alone, 88 million tonnes are wasted every year, equivalent to 173 kg of food waste per person. the production and disposal of this waste results in 170 million tonnes of co2 emissions per year, i.e. for every kilogram of food produced, 4.5 kg of co2 is released into the atmosphere, costing the economy 143 billion euros. the fight against food waste depends on all actors in the value chain, but consumer behaviour has the greatest impact, as households generate the largest share of food waste (53%). consistent measures are therefore needed at european and national level to raise consumer awareness of food quality and ways to prevent food waste. social innovation, the creation of online platforms and the provision of tax incentives for food donation are also appropriate measures in this direction. the future cap can play an important role in combating food waste by including this dimension in the second pillar measures to promote the dissemination of good practices among member states.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. – madam president, congratulations to the rapporteur on the well—structured report and also thanks to commissioner dombrovskis for the detailed information. the role that customs services play in the global trading environment, coping with the damage done by the illicit trade to the formal economy is indisputable. illicit activities have a detrimental impact on economies in terms of growth, jobs, foreign investment and integrity of markets. at the same time they generate large sums for transnational organised crime. in order to eliminate the negative influence, the quality and performance of customs control on the transit of goods, particularly at ports and borders, is of high priority. it is necessary to ensure that there are homogenous control techniques among member states for filtering at ports and borders by promoting modern risk management best control strategies. inclusion of anti-fraud clauses in trade and investment agreements is necessary in order to protect the financial interests of the union. we need closer customs cooperation, both within the union and with third countries, as well as an effective sharing of statistical information related to eu import controls. thus, in addition to preventing damage to the economy we will protect the health and safety of consumers, limiting the risk to societies and markets.
i want to introduce you to a serious case that happened on may 6th and 7th, 2017, when a 59-year-old czech veterinarian was detained on the a3 motorway near nuremberg, who was carrying 42 puppies in a depleted condition in the trunk of a car. it was intended for sale in belgium. ladies and gentlemen, this particular case of 42 puppies, some of which have sadly already died, clearly illustrates the extremely serious form of crime that is taking place in europe today, namely the smuggling of animals from the eastern states of the eu to the western part of the eu. it's a form of serious crime that generates extraordinary money. unfortunately, a good number of animals succumb and die, and we should fight against that. i call on the commission, commissioner, to finally take account of this serious form of activity and to encourage the eu countries to cooperate and to fight against animal smuggling.
colleagues, fellow citizens, for more than 13 months the european commission has been undermining its own legislation by failing to protect 70 million union citizens from discrimination. just days ago, she confirmed that she would not change her position on the visa requirement for u.s. citizens, despite her obligation to do so. this reinforces the thesis that it prefers to violate european legislation rather than introduce visas for third countries that discriminate against europeans, among whom we bulgarians are. i call on the bulgarian government, in the person of the prime minister and the minister of foreign affairs, to take legal action against the european commission in this case. bulgarians deserve to be treated as full europeans after 10 years of membership in the european union. prove that the national interest and the bulgarians are the priority, not the dictation of any other external geopolitical factor!
in writing. – i welcome the commission’s reflection paper on harnessing globalisation and their efforts to make this central part of the discussion on the future of europe. i also congratulate the successes of the globalisation adjustment fund but i am concerned about its long-term orientation. for my generation there is no doubt that managing globalisation successfully means riding the wave of digitalisation and technological innovation. this can be both empowering and disruptive for our labour markets but it is a sine qua non condition for success. europe needs to focus on two priorities. first we need to equip our citizens with the skill necessary for the global workplace. those are digital competence with higher profile. mainstreaming training programmes for digital skills is the way to go. already today 90% of all jobs require some level of digital skills. second, in the age of internet of things, robotics, artificial intelligence, europe needs to have a regulatory environment unlocking the potential of data flow, and even more, making europe an incubator for innovation. here we will be stronger if we move together and not as separate member states. completing the digital single market is the step that we should take now.
i've been hesitant about taking this report seriously. so i finally abstained from the vote and i'm taking the opportunity to explain my political position. i am here to fight very hard against financial fraud and to defend the eu's financial interests, but on the other hand i must admit that some of the wording in the report seems very abstract to me and some of it i cannot fully identify with. for example, i do not think that the creation of a european public prosecutor's office will help much in the fight against fraud. since only a certain number of countries have signed up to this new institution, and therefore a considerable number of countries will not respect such an authority and will not fall under its jurisdiction. i don't think that's going to do much to fight financial fraud. i think we should look for a different way than the one suggested in the report.
mr president, every year 1 billion 300 million tonnes of food is lost or wasted, and in europe alone the figure is 88 million tonnes. in bulgaria, the percentage of citizens living below the poverty line is just over 40 percent. over 30 percent of their income is "eaten" at the dinner table, so to speak. meanwhile, over 900,000 tons of food is thrown away in bulgaria. it's hard for me as a citizen to see our grandmothers, grandfathers, mothers and fathers digging or wandering around the buckets. it's socially irresponsible and i strongly believe that business should take an active role. the steps taken by the bulgarian ombudsman, maya manolova, and the efforts and achievements of the bulgarian food bank are commendable. but the fight against this social problem should be dictated by the government, not expected by the citizens to insist on it. we should not wait for advice on good practice from outside, but we should propose measures to exploit the remaining food resource ourselves.
mr president, madam high representative, undoubtedly, the regime’s forces and those of its allies are responsible for the systematic, widespread and gross violations and abuses of human rights and international humanitarian law. sadly, this april, the syrian regime conducted a chemical attack against civilians in idlib province, where at least 70 civilians, many of them children, were killed, and hundreds more injured. therefore, i call on the eu to continue its policy of imposing sanctions targeting the damascus regime and its supporters as long as repression continues. only the wilfully blind would think that president assad is part of the peace solution, when he has been the main source of violence and instability. in addition, i call on the eu to continue to provide humanitarian support to syria. but we have to be careful not to provide unconditional assistance to the syrian government.
commissioner, the situation in syria requires an honest and sober assessment, a just solution and an international consensus. the series of coups, called the arab spring, did not bring the stated goals of democracy and prosperity to the states, but instead created chaos and destruction, suffering, enclaves ruled by dark-skinned tyrants, deeply divided on religious grounds within islamic societies. there is one unavoidable condition for the stabilization of syria and that is the prevention of the fanatics in power. we must not make the mistake and fail the iraqis made when the country was dismantled, and the islamic state was built on its ruins. the so-called "moderate opposition" is by no means a reliable partner in building syria and lifting it out of the ashes of war. part of it is controlled by a turkish dictator, part of it is controlled by the equally brutal saudi arabia. so why is no one in this room mentioning saudi arabia's sinister role in the bloodshed in syria? i have the impression that there is a lot of shame and fear in this room about the direct culprits of the bloody syrian massacre being named - saudi arabia, qatar and turkey. perhaps the billions of deals between eu member states and saudi arabia are the reason for this shameful and disgraceful silence, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is hypocrisy. in conclusion, syria's borders must be unconditionally secured, riyadh and ankara's pursuit of these territories stopped, and the fanatical rebels destroyed. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. thank you for asking, colleague. yes, you're right, the analysis should have been prepared and presented by the european commission here. but there are a few factors in this syrian crisis that are being ignored and bypassed, and that is the role of qatar, saudi arabia and turkey, and they should not be left behind and they should not be ignored, because that is not how a lasting solution will be found. that's my answer.
- what? the chair, madam commissioner, madam, i have to ask you to stop. mogherini, colleagues, we are witnessing a violent and systematic process of the expulsion of religious minorities from the middle east. we are alarmed to see how radical groups in syria and iraq subject women and children to brutal persecution, oppression and discrimination. hundreds of families in the middle east are forced to make life-changing decisions every day, whether to leave their homeland, abandon their faith, or part with their lives. the main repressive body is the islamic state, which deliberately destroys cities, religious temples and shrines. alas, these are not historical facts from another era, but real pictures from the last six years. in this context, i call on the european union to take urgent measures to protect all religious minorities in the middle east. i firmly believe that the peaceful coexistence of christians and muslims and all religious minorities in the middle east is the foundation on which the european union must build peace and security in the region.
mr president, commissioner, moldova is part of the eastern partnership and as such aims to strengthen its political association and economic integration with the european union. unfortunately, however, the country continues to face serious problems on its way to the european union. the country's various political formations continue to fail to find workable and long-term solutions to important problems, and widespread corruption and restrictions on media freedom are eroding the state. the growing civil unrest and confrontations between pro-russian and pro-european political forces raise serious concerns for the country's security. i therefore call on the moldovan authorities to focus on the significant and urgent reforms set out in the 2014 association agreement. the european union can continue to provide financial and political assistance to moldova, but only on the condition that the authorities in the country commit themselves to democratic values on a lasting basis. moldova is an important factor for the stability and prosperity of the black sea region and we must promote and protect democratic reforms, the fundamental rights and freedoms of the country's citizens and the country's european future.
mr president, moldova is a european country and in recent years has taken important steps towards closer relations with the european union, as expressed in the signing of association agreements and visa-free regime with the countries of the union. but at the same time, the country has begun to move away from democratic practices, not without strong russian influence. media freedom began to be restricted by concentration of ownership and as a result political pluralism decreased. i rightly call for the reform of electoral legislation to be based on the necessary public debate, together with all political parties and civil society, and for the venice commission and the council of europe to be heard. as rapporteur of the epp group on macro-financial assistance to moldova, i believe that it is not appropriate to grant aid without any conditions for reforms and strengthening the democratic capacity of the country. moldova should depoliticize appointments in the public administration, effectively fight corruption and investigate bank fraud where much public money has been lost, provide guarantees for respect for human rights and freedoms, and guarantees for independent and pluralistic media. i would like to call on the european commission to help all moldovan regions even more in this regard, and especially those in southern moldova, such as gagauzia and taraklia, where anti-eu and pro-russian sentiments are still very strong, but they are based simply on ignorance and the creation of an alternative reality through propaganda. so please, commissioner, let us strengthen our positive communication strategy for the european union in all regions of moldova, especially in southern moldova.
mr president, the principle of subsidiarity aims to bring the european union closer to its citizens by ensuring that action is taken at local level where necessary. this applies to all the institutions of the union and is of particular practical importance in the context of legislative procedures. it is particularly important today to create solid european legislation on the issues where the european union can make real progress and add value. in this context, the european commission should improve the explanatory memoranda of its legislative proposals, always providing a detailed, comprehensive and factually based analysis of its proposals in terms of subsidiarity and proportionality, which would assist national parliaments in considering these proposals. national parliaments, as representatives of european citizens at national level, must also strengthen their important role in bridging the gap between the european institutions and the public. national parliaments can look for ways to play a more positive and proactive role on european issues. the idea of using the 'green card' procedure, whereby national parliaments could trigger the european legislative processes and thus play a constructive role in european lawmaking, is therefore a good solution. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are integral to policy formulation and to determining whether european union action can achieve policy objectives better than national or regional initiatives.
mr president, i can bet that three years ago when we came into this house very few of us – or maybe none – believed that we would be able to transfer a significant amount of money, such as eur 6 000, to any international account for free, without any taxes. well, one of europe’s largest european fintech companies already offers this service. one could even execute a transfer just within a few hours around the globe for a very fixed and clear price of eur 6. it’s absolutely impressive where technology has brought us in the past couple of years. when working on the rules for the financial sector, we have to know that fintech stands for faster, cheaper, consumer—friendly and much more convenient financial services that are enabled by technology. however, at the same time, the biggest barriers for such services to flourish is regulatory uncertainty. this is why i believe it is our job as policymakers to create a comprehensive and coherent single market for fintech, and this is what we are calling for in this report, but at the same time we look forward to a very timely and concrete legislative proposal and action plan from the commission.
in writing. the council of 29 april also laid the foundations for a difficult process for the european union. the uk's withdrawal will have a long-term impact on both the uk and the union and its citizens. the choice expressed in the referendum 11 months ago, and confirmed by the political elite in britain, must be respected, regardless of the false claims that were used in the campaign by right-wing and far-right political forces. as a representative of the european citizens, i strongly believe that the european parliament should stand up for the preservation of their rights in the uk, including those of us bulgarians. this, of course, can and should be reciprocal. the uk will remain a neighbour of the eu, which means that the links and relations with the union must remain close, stable and predictable. in this process, the european union must show unity and the ability to protect the interests of all eu member states.
in writing. – the upcoming 43rd g7 summit will be very important one for many reasons. one of them, is that this summit will be the first one for british prime minister theresa may, newly elected french president macron and us president trump. looking from this perspective, it could be argued that this summit will determine the international order in the upcoming years. therefore, i urge the eu to pursue seriously its interests during the summit. i will emphasise economic development as a top priority (interest) for the eu. the eu also should push for peace solutions for the ongoing conflicts in its neighbourhood namely in syria, libya and ukraine. last but not least, the eu should discuss with other states from g7 its future relationship with britain after brexit.
mr president, i strongly disagreed with this report because it represents yet another unacceptable interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign state. once again we see the hypocrisy of the european commission. i think it is absolutely unacceptable for the commission and the council to use such a name-calling and attacking tone towards hungary. the actions of prime minister orbán are supported by the majority of hungarian society and in no way undermine the democratic foundations of the hungarian state. this is not the first time that the european commission has openly attacked a national government for a political disagreement. national governments are much more legitimate representatives of european citizens than the president of the commission. i'm sorry if you don't like this. i support the course taken by prime minister orban on border defence and do not believe that the hungarian government is violating human rights. national states have the right to defend their borders and repel aggressive invaders. the european parliament's motion for a resolution referred to the eleven refugees, including ahmed h. this guy had thrown a few objects at the border patrol. i condemn the attack on the officers of the order and i believe that when we want order, we must guarantee it. i think hungary is a great example of protecting national interests within the community and that is why i voted against it.
mr president, recognition of skills and qualifications is animportant tool to facilitate educational and labour mobility by nationals, mobile eu citizens and third country migrants alike. the establishment of the european qualifications framework for lifelong learning with the aim of improving the transparency, comparability and transferability of qualifications in europe, was an important and essential step forward in achieving this objective. unfortunately, the implementation of the current framework has not taken effect. at each stage of the recognition process different types of obstacles still persist. we are witnessing slow implementation with weak coherence in member states, variability and weak coordination across europe, weak engagement of social partners and civil society, and a lack of clarity regarding the recording of skills outside formal education. furthermore, the challenges that education and training systems face as a result of a high level of migration to europe should be addressed at both european and national level.
mr president, commission representatives, colleagues, first of all i would like to thank my colleague mrs kawada and the shadow rapporteurs for their hard and consistent work, for the result achieved. this agreement will be an important step towards improving the quality of life of the citizens of the member states of the european union. each of them was probably in a situation where they had a subscription to an online service, moved temporarily abroad and could not access the service they had paid for and subscribed to. this challenge to the digital single market strategy not only creates an unfair burden for rightholders, but also causes legal uncertainty and limits to some extent the free movement of persons and the rights deriving therefrom, such as the treaties on the european union. i hope that as a result of the trilateral meetings, within nine months we will witness this fundamental change. through difficult negotiations, a balanced agreement was reached which will not only overcome the challenges of portability but also ensure that rightholders have effective safeguards to verify their residency so that they can benefit from the benefits of their subscriptions wherever they are. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. thank you, colleague, even if it's a pleasure, it's not a pleasure. these are normal things in political life. and as to your question as to whether they should be revised, i think yes, they should, but that is a matter of negotiation between the telecommunications operators with whom you have a contract. it's a private-legal relationship to some extent. but sooner or later this question will be asked to equalise telecommunications operators operating in the digital field with those providing cable service. so, yeah, it's gonna happen sooner or later.
mr president, the european citizens want visible and rapid results from our work. this regulation is a concrete response of the european parliament to the citizens, but it is also a promise i have made to our voters. in 2018, every european will be able to use his or her subscription to books, music, films, series or sports programmes wherever he or she travels in the european union without any restrictions on content, without any restrictions on the number of devices or their functionality on the service. and most importantly, at no extra cost. it is a step forward in ensuring a digital single market for all europeans. and that is why i thank the rapporteur and my colleagues with whom we worked on this regulation in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. however, in order to have a genuine and functional digital single market, we need to continue to work with the same, and i would say even faster, determination on the other files, among which are, for example, those on privacy and personal data in electronic communications, the code on electronic communications, the directive on contracts for digital content and digital services, and the expected action by the commission towards cybersecurity and online platforms.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr kawada, on his work and the negotiations on this report. i am pleased that an agreement has been reached which will allow our citizens to access online content such as music, games, films, entertainment programmes not only in the territory of their member state of residence but also when they are temporarily in another member state. this will enable them to enjoy the music and films they have paid for in their country of residence when travelling for pleasure, business or study in the european union. until now, users who were temporarily in a member state other than their member state of residence were often prevented from accessing online content for which they had lawfully acquired the right to access and use in their member state of residence. the fact that under the new provisions online content service providers should not charge their subscribers any additional fees for ensuring the cross-border portability of online content services will contribute to increasing the use of these services across the european union. this initiative will also improve the free movement of persons and services in the internal market. of course, this should not be to the detriment of the authors and their copyrighted works. authors should retain their freedom of negotiation. consumers and online service providers should continue to comply with copyright requirements.
madam president, systematic checks at external borders are important because for the first time european and national security services will know exactly who is crossing the borders. this will significantly reduce the chances of 2,500 european citizens who are involved in terrorist organisations in syria, iraq and libya returning to europe undetected and posing a security threat. at the same time, i believe that the possibility of suspending systematic checks in the event of obstacles to free movement within the european union and after risk assessment, represents a balance between the need to ensure european security and the economic and business interests of the countries concerned. the issue of border security is extremely important for my country, bulgaria, which has perhaps the most sensitive external border - the one with turkey. unfortunately, although the country fully implements schengen legislation, including systematic checks, and fully meets the criteria for schengen membership, bulgaria still does not have full access to the schengen information system the same system in which european citizens are to be checked under the new rules when entering and leaving the european union. let me be clear: until bulgaria has full access to sis, despite our good intentions and the enormous efforts we are making, we will not be able to guarantee maximum security at europe's external borders. so i want to call on the leaders of those countries that are blocking bulgaria's membership in schengen to think about the security of european citizens. because if they continue to block bulgaria's access to sis, it means they are not taking seriously their own calls for increased security at the external borders.
mr. chairman, i'd like to ask you a few questions that raise some doubt. first of all, is it not speculating on the subject of social rights in order to force a redistribution of market share? is the prohibition on cabotage liberalisation merely a measure to protect social rights or is it pure protectionism by member states who do not want the new member states to increase their market share? why does the commission not initiate criminal proceedings against countries at the geographical centre of the european union which are amending their national legislation and are opposing the liberalisation of the single european transport market? to get to proposals like this, trucks that are registered in certain countries are doing services mainly in those countries. so german trucks performing services in germany, french trucks in france. i would ask you to even expand your proposal: can the berlin trucks only operate within a 50 km radius around berlin or can the trucks from budapest operate within a 50 km radius of budapest? that way, we'll be back from the 21st century not to the 20th, but to the 17th. is this the future of the european union?
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to start by thanking the epp coordinator in the regi committee, mr van nistelrooy, for his support and cooperation, and for the support of all my colleagues in the committee on regional development in relation to this report. we could not have achieved quality work and good results without the good cooperation of commissioner kreţu, who is constantly trying to improve the results of cohesion policy. speaking of cohesion policy, we must say that it has long since ceased to be just one of the european union's policies. these are no longer just funds, nor are they just projects. cohesion policy and the projects we fund through the european structural investment funds have become part of the beliefs and values we share an example of how we can express our european solidarity. we've gone from an institution to a reflection of people's opinions and interests. the commission will continue to support the development of the regional and local authorities' capacity to implement the union's policies and to ensure that the union's policies and programmes are consistent with the objectives of the union's external action. our central task must be to respond to their wishes and their needs, while none of the crises facing the european union or the challenges we face should prevent us from fulfilling these commitments. that is why it is not right to start talking about what the financial instruments should be, what the grant funding should be, since it should be subordinated solely to the interests of our municipalities and regions. but it's important to anticipate what will follow our intervention and what would be most important to the beneficiaries. let's set some priorities! my suggestion is that they be small in number, but resourced, so that we can easily see the results. for a long time, what counts in our work is not the reports, not the accounts, not the accounting. these are the visible results that our citizens see. the reason we are sent here, especially the people who work in the regional development committee, is to make their lives easier and the countries of the european union richer. i think that's the role of our work on this committee. the new initiatives we are launching in the european union are commendable. many of them are successful and meet people's expectations, meet the challenges that we face. however, we must not forget that cohesion policy and the grant for developing regions are not gifts. they are part of the whole of what the european union is, part of the drive to present the same quality of life in every corner of the european union. otherwise, the fence will not only be physical, but even more terrifying. it will be in our understanding, where instead of building bridges, we will build barriers. that is why i think it is extremely important that we start a meaningful debate with this report on how to keep the grants for developing regions and introduce financial instruments for the more rapidly developing ones, and also to make sure that everything new that we introduce - financial instruments and grants - is equally accessible everywhere in the european union, and i am sure people will appreciate that.
mr president, both reports under discussion today and to be voted on shortly thereafter are focused on key areas that can improve the effectiveness of cohesion policy both in the current period up to 2020 and its effective use beyond 2020 as a key instrument for improving cohesion and closing the gaps in the development of the european union's regions. both reports address key issues such as flexibility, complementarity, the combination of the european structural and investment funds with other financial instruments of the european union, and also address one key issue that has already been mentioned the good balance: a balance between the experience we have so far in implementing cohesion policy and a balance for future implementation. it is extremely important to pay attention to the problem of financial instruments, because this is the basis of a good balance in the future. the financial instruments shall allow for the mobilisation of additional investments outside the public investments of the european union. financial instruments make it possible to deploy cohesion policy more effectively, and in this sense the complementarity between technical assistance, the development of financial instruments and the improvement of cohesion policy is the direction in which we will move in the future. (the speaker agreed to answer one question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. thank you for asking. i fully agree, of course, that technical assistance should be addressed not only to the central managing bodies of operational programmes but also to all the beneficiaries of operational programmes and, above all, to local authorities. capacity building in local authorities is essential for the effective use of projects, for the preparation and implementation of projects that are addressed to local communities. but technical assistance should also be aimed at improving the visibility of cohesion policy so that it is closer to citizens.
mr president, the economic scissors in the european union along the east-west axis remain wide open, even after more than 10 years of membership for the so-called 'newly joined' member states. i would like to remind you that in the european union there are still villages, including in my country bulgaria, without basic village infrastructure, such as sewerage and access to drinking water. to date, the use of financial instruments such as loans, guarantees and microcredit by agricultural operators is limited. this suggests that these instruments are not suited to the different economic sectors. the cap guarantees income and supports the implementation of certain european policies. however, cohesion policy and financial instruments help regions to grow. there are activities and projects, such as irrigation, short circuits, closed production cycles and the construction of digital infrastructure, that require economic capital that is beyond the means of local administrations. investing in such projects provides solutions to problems in regions with lower living standards. i therefore believe that rural regions and their operators should be guaranteed access to the financial instruments available under the european union's cohesion policy.
mr president, the key challenge facing the european union today is the deepening inequalities within the union. this is why cohesion policy, a key tool for combating inequalities, is now taking on a new and even greater importance. the report by mr novakov rightly states that grants should retain their leading role for mainstream public policies and financial instruments could have a complementary contribution. efforts are certainly needed to attract and combine private investment with public funds. however, there should be a clear demarcation of the areas where the grant or financial instruments work best. however, when using the structural and investment funds, the main priority is to achieve the objectives of convergence. without a strong policy of convergence, it should be clear that a highly unbalanced union has no future.
the rapporteur. i want to thank everyone who participated in the debate today. i'm glad there were critical points of view. but along with them, we have to say something. by the end of this programming period, almost half a trillion euros will have been invested in europe's regions. every day, hundreds of millions are invested in european communities to solve people's problems. and these are facts we cannot ignore. of course there are problems to solve, of course there is room for improvement. can we make the procedures faster, easier and more understandable? i might. can we make cohesion policy more visible? i suppose it could. but here i support commissioner kreutz, who says that cohesion policy reaches people, municipalities and regions more than any other eu policy and we must support this approach. because every project that is implemented through the european union, through the european structural and investment funds, weakens the populists, and that is the qualitative difference between all constructive politicians and the populists. the former deliver results, the latter just talk. i'm sure that in the end, people will appreciate what we've done and judge us by our deeds.
madam president, on behalf of the groups of the ecr, alde, efdd and gue, which rarely find common ground and have united around the idea, based on the principles of full transparency, democratic legitimacy, we say as elected representatives in this parliament that we wish to prevent the damage that this harmful report in its present form would cause when it becomes legislation. he was voted in by less than 3% of meps. the report by the committee on culture and education fails to address both elements, while fragmenting rather than promoting the european union's digital single market. the report fails to achieve its objectives when it comes to ensuring a level playing field between new and established market participants. last but not least, it significantly extends the scope of this directive, the initial content it is intended to regulate, to online communities where people share information, ideas, personal messages.... (the president cut off the speaker)
the other groups, since you obviously have no desire to hear the whole argument, on behalf of the ecr, alde, efdd and gue, please vote against the mandate!
madam president, cohesion policy plays a very important role in the implementation of the policies laid down in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. article 174 of the treaty requires the development and implementation of initiatives aimed at strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion. the role of the cohesion funds is key in this respect. local, regional and national authorities, however, often lack the necessary capacity to implement the european structural and investment funds effectively and efficiently and to organise partnerships with other public authorities, such as rural authorities, economic and social partners and civil society representatives. since the technical assistance in the field of cohesion policy was put into use, no overall analysis has been carried out to establish its actual contribution. well-used technical measures are a prerequisite for attracting industrial investment in high-tech and innovative sectors with low environmental impact.
the free movement of people, goods, capital and services is a fundamental element of the european single market. for it to be fully functional, we need to add free flow of data. it seems paradoxical that european citizens can move freely within the european union, but not so with the services they buy, which cannot move with them. today, every one of us uses a smartphone, laptop or tablet in our daily lives with the assumption that the internet space has no boundaries. but that's just the appearance. for example, if a bulgarian user has purchased a subscription to an online tv service where he can watch his favourite bulgarian series, access to them will be automatically restricted the moment he decides to leave the territory of bulgaria. i am of the opinion that this injustice must be put to an end and that is why i supported the proposal for a regulation. i believe that bulgarian and european citizens have the right to listen to their favourite music and watch their favourite films while travelling outside their home country.
i voted against this report because it goes against the fundamental freedoms of the european union, because it is lobbyist, because it imposes unacceptable protectionism and because it goes against the interests of the citizens of eastern europe. why is he against them? at least 100,000 people in my homeland, bulgaria, make their living in the transport business. probably millions more in the czech republic, in poland, in hungary, in romania, make their living in this business. they have given a price for the service, they have won these contracts and they are running all over the european union. companies in germany, in belgium, in france were envious of these prices and decided to "protect" the rights of workers in eastern europe by taking their jobs. this is totally wrong. this is not gonna work. there are unacceptable restrictions on the right to free movement, on entrepreneurship, demanding that drivers leave their trucks and go to sleep 10, 15, 20 kilometers away in taxis. that's not gonna happen. this report is contrary to freedom of movement in the european union. this report is against the interests of eastern european entrepreneurs. and that's why i voted against it, and that's why i say it's harmful.
mr president, in the single european market, where the same rules apply to production and labelling, it is scandalous that there are products of the same brand but with different qualities and ingredients in different member states. it is not clear how in countries such as bulgaria and slovakia a cheaper ingredient such as fructose glucose syrup is used in some drinks, while in the same product, for example in austria, there is none. i'm not surprised by the reaction in the western press that the double standards were "fake news number one". calling tests carried out in member states' state laboratories 'fake news' is in itself indicative of the mood among manufacturers in western europe. if the citizens prefer food with a different and local flavor, dear producers, then produce it under a different brand with raw materials in the respective country and hire labor there! more than two months ago, the bulgarian food safety agency began to analyze the issue. in just two days, i was able to identify similar differences in several products. waiting for dictates from the new government or business is not in the interest of the safety of bulgarian citizens. it's time to act!
in writing. when our eu accession negotiator lightly closed his eyes, in most cases to the detriment of bulgaria, more than ten years ago, we had a lot of silk suits walking around that promised us almost rivers of prosperity, prosperity and endless happiness in the community. when we became part of this otherwise good, but i dare say so far poorly executed idea, it turned out that these promises were just another lie. we got a government of bureaucrats that no one ever elected. these very same people are often accused of pushing or covering up big business policies. therefore, when it became known that the same product is produced from different products for different parts of the union, i was not at all surprised. i welcome the colleagues from eastern europe who have taken this problem to heart and are looking for some solution. unfortunately, however, these actions by corporations, perhaps concealed by bureaucrats, seem to me to be 'all are equal, but some are more equal' - a slogan of a political system that has already been denied, or unfortunately a manifestation of segregation that contradicts the pillars of development of this community.
mr president, the new european consensus on development is aimed at responding to current global trends and the challenges of globalisation. it has aligned the development policy of the eu and its member states with the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development. the consensus has achieved one of the top priorities of eu foreign policy, namely increased coordination and coherence between the eu and its member states. furthermore, in order to achieve more effective results and make a greater impact, it proposes a tailored and differentiated approach when working with partners to promote joint programming and implementation, with the full involvement of civil society and other actors. it highlights the importance of development effectiveness, transparency, mutual accountability, and ownership by all partners involved. therefore, i fully support the new consensus because it is an opportunity to make the eu even stronger and more prepared to tackle today’s global challenges and promote sustainable development. finally, let us be more ambitious.
madam president, as we all know, the european union global strategy refers to building state and societal resilience in the union’s neighbourhood as one of the key strategic priorities for the eu. in the context of eu foreign policy, building resilience in the neighbourhood has been understood as the capacity of different layers of society to withstand, adapt to and recover quickly from stresses and shocks. the eu uses the concept of resilience as an answer to the growing complexity of the international security environment and the ongoing instability on its southern and eastern borders. therefore, i call on the commission to use the concept of resilience with nation states because they remain the key actors in societies capable of bringing about real changes and reform. in the long-term, placing more focus on nation states will increase the efficiency and credibility of eu foreign policy.
in writing. – there is no doubt that the eu and ukraine should cooperate more extensively in order to achieve a full implementation of the deep and comprehensive free trade area between them. in light of this, the proposed additional preferences to ukraine may further support the country’s economic recovery efforts and the reorientation of its markets towards the eu. this is really needed, particularly in view of the ongoing conflict in eastern ukraine, russian trade sanctions on ukraine, the unfavourable global economic environment and the economic hardships which ukraine faces nowadays. here, it is important to note that i fully support further trade liberalisation with ukraine but i cannot hide my concerns that additional trade preferences to ukraine in practice have the potential to destabilise eu agricultural markets. recently, i asked the commission about ukrainian sunflower oil, which is a product of unfair competition and which significantly threatens sunflower oil producers in the eu, notably those in bulgaria and romania. in conclusion, i call on the ukrainian authorities to initiate and implement deep political and economic reforms in order to decrease negative sentiment for the developing integration process with the country both within the eu and member states.
in writing. – although some would like to see ukraine as an example of a failing state, the government has conducted considerable reforms in the past two years, bringing concrete results and improvements for their citizens. civil society has been instrumental in bringing those reforms forward. two aspects have been of particular concern to both politicians and civil society in ukraine – the visa free regime, which we already established, and the full implementation of the dcfta. i welcome the very mature position of the dutch government and the vote in the dutch senate yesterday, confirming the ratification of the association agreement with ukraine. i hope that the outcome of the trialogue on the introduction of temporary autonomous trade measures for ukraine will be constructive and balanced. increasing the trade flows with our neighbour is a step towards a closer cooperation – an economic but also a political gesture. the eu should, however, maintain its conditionality to be able to foster reforms in the country. measures to eradicate corruption should be part of this conditionality for further accessions in trade.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on culture and education. mr. chairman, i also congratulate mr. telicka, who is leaving and will not be listening to this conversation, but i respect his opinion. we are on the threshold of a new and exciting era. these two files represent two more important steps towards the true digital europe we all aspire to. digitalization is not only a political issue, but also an economic one. it's a part of our daily lives, of each and every one of us. when we develop new legislation or call for a profoundly different course of action, we will be able to further improve the lives of citizens and provide industry with a modern legal framework. one of the key issues we need to continue to focus on is bridging the generational gap and retraining the workforce, because these are the pillars of the european union. with that said, i would like to end by welcoming the dossiers on the digital industry and the 5g programme, and i hope to see the necessary changes and measures implemented in the member states of the european union soon.
mr. chairman, i thank all my colleagues for the work and effort put into this report on digitizing the industry. i also thank the committee responsible for having accepted the position of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, where i was rapporteur for the group of the european people's party. it's important that we talk about digitalization and talk about it boldly. the sector in europe employs 6 million people and accounts for 4% of the european union's gross domestic product. it is important to note that about one third of the growth in industrial production is already happening thanks to the introduction of digital technologies. in other words, the industry is benefiting from digitization. nearly 100 billion euros a year is expected. but this result will not be achieved by individual efforts. we need coordination of national and regional initiatives and exchanges of good practices, joint solutions and common standards to promote the development of the internet of things and cross-border data flows. but in addition to concrete investments and added value for digital infrastructure, the digitalisation of industry also requires a trained human resource. forty percent of workers in the european union lack sufficient digital skills. and that is why we have stood up in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. i am glad that the final report reflects these positions. now is really the time for the new member states to show that we can do this best - to absorb change, to embrace it, to transform our industries and to leapfrog the development cycle, as we did with the internet infrastructure. i hope that europe can be an example of how to make our industry more efficient and competitive.
mr president, i would like to express my outrage at the behaviour of four european countries. these are germany, italy, belgium and france, who are trying to impose protectionism on transport. this is unacceptable. protectionism in transportation is preventing eastern european entrepreneurs from doing their jobs. the imposition of transport restrictions affects hundreds of thousands of people who work in eastern europe and they benefit from the four fundamental freedoms, namely freedom of movement, freedom of ideas, freedom of people and the freedom to be able to do the things you have tried to do. that's why i object to this protectionist transport policy. the fundamental right of people who work and people who are entrepreneurs and try to contribute to the common good must be respected.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur, mrs kaufmann, for the work that she has done, and also the shadow rapporteurs. this has been a long process, but an important one. ensuring the security of travel and identity documents is a very important factor in combating travel document fraud. it effectively contributes to protecting our borders, ensuring our internal security and also helps us to better manage migration. so i welcome the agreement on the uniform format for visas. document fraud is an enabler of all sorts of crime and requires a swift and joint reaction. when the commission presented this proposal in 2015, it was in order to have a proposal for a new, more secure, visa sticker to counter this kind of crime. it is a matter of priority to improve the design and the security features of the current visa sticker, so as to effectively counter fraudsters’ activities, and this is a part of a wider approach on securing travel documents such as passports and residence permits for third-country nationals, including by the use of biometric data. it has taken almost two years to reach an agreement on this matter and i would like to thank the hard work of the european parliament here, under the lead of mrs kaufmann. the improvement of the visa sticker security is now a long time overdue and we are confident that the council will proceed with its adoption very soon. the introduction of the new uniform format will contribute to increased eu internal security by preventing new visa forgeries in the coming years.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. madam president, as rapporteur for the committee on legal affairs, i would like to thank the colleagues with whom we worked on this document. certainly, in today's uncertain times - times of terror, when the security of citizens is seriously threatened - clear, concrete, targeted and consistent measures must be taken. the harmonisation of visa format requirements is a step in this direction. the visa sticker has not been modified so far and data from the european commission shows that in the last few years there has been an increase in the number of cases of its falsification. counterfeiters are becoming more and more inventive, and ever-evolving technologies are giving them ever-increasing opportunities. it is our duty to respond and meet this challenge. europe has been the victim of several attacks, and european citizens have experienced the pain of having someone enter our territory with false documents. the situation continues to deteriorate, so it is clear that policies need to be targeted towards achieving concrete results and the situation needs to be improved. border control is an important priority and harmonising visa standards in this step is the right direction.
in writing. our discussions and debates often focus on young people and the development of youth policies. however, vulnerable adults who, because of impaired or insufficient personal capacity, are unable to protect their own interests and those of their property, either temporarily or permanently, should not be neglected. these persons are also european citizens and also have the right to free movement and equal access to services within the union. however, their different status has caused problems and difficulties. i call on the commission to provide support and resources to make eu citizens aware of member states' legislation on vulnerable adults and measures to protect them. in this respect, i think it is commendable for the eu that several countries have signed the hague convention on the international protection of minors. unfortunately, my country bulgaria has not signed or ratified the convention. i call on the bulgarian government to put in place the necessary conditions for the convention to be signed, ratified and incorporated into bulgarian law, in order to guarantee equal access for all citizens to services and opportunities.
madam president, i strongly support the european commission's ambitious plan to provide superfast internet to primary and secondary schools, universities and libraries by 2025. i believe this will improve the way students and students learn the material and the teaching methods. i find the huge disparity between countries in the european union in terms of access to high-speed internet to be worrying, however. the situation is even more difficult in rural and remote areas where 3g and 4g are not widely available. this further deepens the gap between the city and the countryside. unfortunately, bulgaria is again at the bottom of the digital penetration rankings. only 55% of bulgarian households have a fixed broadband subscription. against the backdrop of these statistics, it seems absurd that mr. borisov's priority is the creation of e-government, while at the same time only 31% of bulgarians have basic digital skills.
madam president, i have supported this report. unlike one of the speakers, i believe that at a time when the number of elderly people who unfortunately suffer from certain health problems in their later years and are therefore partially disabled is increasing, it is necessary to address the issue of how to protect these people. we have, for example, in the czech republic, adopted a new civil code that very strongly protects persons with disabilities, and it is clear that when these people enter into cross-border legal relationships, it is necessary for the european union to address this issue and provide protection for such people, because the population is aging, and as i have already indicated, all experts agree that unfortunately in the older generation, in the older seniors, there is an increase in a number of different neurological diseases that can lead to disability. these people must be guaranteed a life of dignity and their rights protected. this report speaks to that, and that is why i support it, because i think it makes sense and can help people who are in a difficult situation.
madam president, ukraine is a neighbour and partner of the european union. i believe we should work with her and cooperate with her. however, for me, the interests and concerns of european producers, and in particular of bulgarian producers, must be a priority. i did not support the proposal to increase duty-free imports of a number of agricultural industrial products because producers in my country bulgaria are already feeling the pressure of the already existing duty-free regime. last year, thousands of tonnes of honey were not sold in bulgaria because of imports from third countries. oilseed producers are also feeling the pressure of imports from ukraine. in the world, neoliberalism and free trade are suffocating the european producer. it faces a number of legal requirements, environmental standards and other challenges. with easy importation, we add additional competition to this set of difficulties. let's make the single market accessible and work for the european manufacturer.
madam president, i supported mr buttikofer's report because i believe that the european union needs an integrated strategy for industrial digitisation more than ever. we must not overlook the fact that it will have an immediate impact, both on the educational and social spheres. in the field of education, i think it is worth pointing out that within the european union, 40 percent of workers lack digital skills. it is imperative that digital skills are integrated into national curricula. it should also be noted that europe is facing a shortage of some 180 000 it professionals every year, while at the same time hundreds of young people are without jobs and prospects for development. the social dimension of the digitalisation of industry should also not be neglected. new technologies bring new opportunities for citizens, but at the same time they also imply the loss of jobs and, consequently, of social security. the european union must be socially responsible and provide protection for all if it is not to lose the trust of its citizens.
madam speaker, i voted for this proposed resolution because it sends a strong message to the democratic community around the world that no one deserves to be harassed or discriminated against on the basis of ethnicity or religion, skin color or sexual orientation. people of jewish origin have suffered the most in the recent history of europe and as a citizen of the republic of bulgaria i am truly proud that my homeland managed to save the jewish community in the country during the second world war. unfortunately, however, 72 years later, events are taking place in bulgaria that are an assault on the memory of the victims of the holocaust. a few weeks ago, the new bulgarian government appointed a deputy minister who was paraded with a photo showing him giving a nazi salute. here's the picture. there's another one. then the deputy prime minister of nato and european bulgaria valeri simeonov, answered that in the 70s of the last century he was taken to the buchenwald camp and said, i quote: "on reflection, who knows what jokes i took pictures of myself". that's not a joke. i ring the bell and call on europe to show zero tolerance to a power that mocks the memory of the victims.
the rapporteur. the recent series of earthquakes in italy has had a devastating impact on the affected areas. but it's not just these natural disasters that are happening in europe - fires in portugal, floods in romania, just a few hours ago an earthquake in western turkey that affected southern bulgaria and parts of greece. large-scale restoration work is needed to help the population, especially in the italian regions, to live in a dignified way and to preserve the cultural heritage of the affected regions. in addition to the initial support offered by the european union solidarity fund, additional amounts could be made available to member states from the european regional development fund for the recovery of regions affected by major natural disasters. in order to provide such additional assistance to member states affected by natural disasters, the general legal framework established for the european structural and investment funds should be amended. the european commission has proposed to amend article 120 of the general provisions regulation by introducing a separate priority axis for recovery projects supported by the european regional development fund under the operational programmes. the commission proposed that the co-financing rate for these projects should be up to 100%. operations selected by the managing authorities will be funded under the priority axis only if they are related to recovery activities in response to a major or regional natural disaster, as defined in regulation 2012/2002 establishing a 'solidarity' fund. the proposal has no budgetary impact, with the proposed activities remaining within the overall allocation for the period 2014-2020, with the overall package remaining unchanged. the report i am presenting today supports the commission's proposal as a focused and budget-neutral solution. it stressed that cohesion policy must adapt to new challenges and ensure a rapid response by all member states whose regions are affected by major natural disasters. following interinstitutional negotiations, the european parliament and the council reached a political agreement on the commission's legislative proposal. the proposal was adopted with strong support in the committee on regional development. in this connection, i would like to draw your attention to an amendment to the commission's legislative proposal which includes, on the one hand, support through the european regional development fund up to 95% co-financing within an operational programme, but on the other hand, retains the proposals in the original report of parliament for a 5% threshold on the national allocation of the european regional development fund for the member state concerned. the political agreement we reached is an expression of our solidarity. it shows our understanding that we are all vulnerable, that natural disasters are possible in every region, and that we should support each other in meeting these challenges by offering support for the recovery of affected areas. i would like to draw your attention in the context of today's debate on cohesion policy to the fact that cohesion policy must adapt to new challenges. as in the case of the case, to be able to provide a rapid, adequate response to all member states whose regions are affected by natural disasters. a simple, effective and efficient procedure for responding to unforeseen circumstances must be established. that is what the commission is doing with its proposal, and that is what we are proposing with this report that i am presenting today.
mr president, for me the cohesion policy is close to a miracle. for the first time in human history, in peacetime, independent, sovereign countries are contributing to other countries’ prosperity voluntarily on a systemic basis. that has never happened before. this is more than bridges. this is more than highways. this is more than metro lines. this is our nature, this is our beliefs. and the only way to let the stars shine is by not taking even one step back from this nature, not even one step back from these beliefs. i am glad that the proposal for the draft budget 2018 for european cohesion is the biggest in european history in terms of commitments, and i am glad that there is an increase of more than 20% foreseen for payments for cohesion policy. today, now, is the right moment to show the european citizens that europe is stronger than ever, no matter what crises are hitting our union.
the rapporteur. it is very difficult for me, after your passionate words, to defend the agreement reached on aid to countries affected by natural disasters. but i would like to say that a realistic result, when it is a result, is better than an unrealistic desire. we have a result, we have reached a good agreement, we have reached a political agreement that guarantees both the support for the affected regions and the full political support of the political groups in parliament. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs, to thank the european commission, which has provided us with a great deal of data that helped us to take the decision, and to stress once again that it is precisely this decision to amend the main legislative package that shows the potential of cohesion policy. it shows the potential of this policy to be close to the people, to respond to their problems, to help when needed, but at the same time to ensure development, growth, jobs and the competitiveness of the european economy. this is the meaning of the policy we are discussing today, and the example of the report on legislative change to support countries that have experienced natural disasters is just proof that there is a possibility for policy to be flexible, to be effective, to be close to the people and to be understandable to them. so i thank everyone who participated in the debate. i thank you for your words and i hope that we will be able to talk about real future policy in the very near future.
mr president, to begin with, i would like to congratulate both rapporteurs, ms ayala sender and ms dlabajová, for their work and dedication. for me, after all, the 7th framework programme (fp7) was sufficiently and successfully implemented. however, there are lessons to be learnt, especially now that we are preparing for the 9th framework programme (fp9). we need a much stronger business—science relationship. we should define much more carefully the projects with huge market potential in order to choose the best of them. i would like to see more nobel prize winners coming from the eu. i am sure that the achievements we have made with horizon 2020 and the fp7 are contributing to this. however, there is a weak point: national points of contact. we should put in much more investments and efforts to make them work better in order to make a very good connection with citizens and future beneficiaries.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the paris agreement, as expected, makes the process of decarbonising the global economy irreversible by aiming to achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions by the end of this century. in 2009, the eu adopted its target of reducing these emissions by 80-95% by 2050. the effort sharing regulation, or 'climate action under the paris agreement', under consideration today covers 60% of the eu's greenhouse gas emissions and covers sectors outside the emissions trading scheme, including transport, waste, construction and agriculture. the common european target of a 40% reduction in carbon emissions by 2030 becomes binding on those sectors at national level. i support setting a trajectory to achieve at least 80% emissions reductions by 2050 to ensure long-term predictability of policies and the necessary investments. i welcome the considerable flexibility that is afforded to member states in achieving the objectives of the regulation. it is particularly important for agriculture and forests, which can also contribute to the overall reduction of emissions through the natural carbon sequestration mechanism. the call for early action is also acceptable insofar as it is combined with additional bonuses for the parties concerned at a later stage.
i supported this report because i strongly believe in the role of cohesion policy now and in the future of the european union. in this regard, i would like to express my firm support for this policy. cohesion policy remains a major, highly successful and valuable instrument for investment and development in the eu, especially in the context of the decline in public and private investment in some member states in recent years. the impending brexit is a cause for concern, but it must not be allowed to affect lightly one of the most successful policies - the embodiment of european solidarity. cohesion policy can and should play an important role in creating growth regions by supporting digital projects. the digital infrastructure will help to reduce depopulation trends, especially in rural areas.
the use of the world's most widely used herbicide glyphosate remains an issue, with the existing approval for its use expiring on 31 december 2017 at the latest. glyphosate is now used extensively not only in agriculture, but also for the maintenance of parks and public spaces. this means that a wide range of people are exposed to it, from agricultural workers who come into direct contact with the product to the final consumer of the agricultural product. we all know that glyphosate is highly controversial, because it's suspected of causing cancer, severe fetal harm in the womb, serious gastrointestinal illness, and a host of other adverse health effects in humans and animals. clear and conclusive conclusions on its toxicity or safety are still lacking. on the other hand, products containing glyphosate are widely used in a number of countries, not only in europe but also worldwide. this means in practice that even if its use within the european union is restricted, its impact on european citizens will not be stopped. in this context, it is of the utmost importance for all of us that the commission and the member states have reliable data on the real impact of glyphosate on human and animal health. those data shall be based on independent, in-depth and transparent scientific research and studies.
in writing. glyphosate is the most widely used herbicide in the world. it is widely used in agriculture and horticulture. in european cities, it is widely used in weed control and de facto millions of europeans are exposed to this herbicide. the european commission itself defines the substance as corrosive, damaging to vision, toxic to aquatic flora and fauna and with long-term effects. these are sufficient reasons for private business research to focus on developing a substitute that overcomes these risks. i support the creation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry to raise awareness of an issue that is raising increasing concerns among citizens. i believe that europe has enough scientific and economic potential to stimulate european industry to develop substances that carry less risk than those developed decades ago elsewhere. this will help european manufacturing and the union can prove itself as a leader in the application of good practices and the handling of herbicides with minimal risk to the environment, human health, soil and the environment.
in writing. – i support the call for the eu to ensure free and fair elections by the end of the year. in accordance with the congolese constitution, elections should have taken place in 2016, but president kabila has made every possible effort to postpone these elections. the constitution states that a president cannot serve for more than two terms; as such president kabila is not permitted to serve a third term. i express deep concern over the mass graves discovered in the grand kasai region and the resurgence of violence in the northern and eastern parts of the drc. i firmly condemn all acts of violence and human rights abuses in the country, regardless of the perpetrator, and call for the launch of an independent international investigation.
madam president, as we all know well, human rights are not only one of the founding values of the eu, but they are also among the guiding principles and objectives of its actions on the international arena. in this context, the eu human rights guidelines on freedom of expression online and offline aims to provide legal protection to whistleblowers, citizens’ privacy and freedom of opinion. however, since its adoption back in 2014, the eu human rights guidelines of freedom of expression offline and online have not managed to provide adequate protection for journalists, bloggers or citizens around the world. to evaluate the current situation of freedom of expression, it is necessary just to mention the case of sakharov laureate raif badawi, who has been flogged for blogging. unfortunately, nowadays there is a record number of journalists in jail globally, and internet freedom has been limited in many countries. working from this perspective, i call on the eu to increase dramatically the funding for internet and human rights protectors.
in the past year, serbia has made significant progress in the overall implementation of reforms and policies on its path to the european union. serbia's successes in the integration process are a clear sign of the country's european orientation and its desire to join the union. however, we cannot but note with concern that the country continues to pursue a foreign policy that is not fully aligned with that of the european union, given the complex geopolitical situation in the region. indeed, the lack of synchrony between serbia's foreign policy and the european union is a prerequisite for destabilizing the balkans. i therefore call on the serbian authorities to show the necessary political will and to bring their foreign policy into line with that of the european union. they must also show determination to normalise and deepen good neighbourly relations, in particular with kosovo, because only then will the security, peace and european perspective of the region be guaranteed.
on behalf of the ecr group. first of all, congratulations to you, mrs. lunacek, on the report you have done. this sunday i was part of the european parliament's election observation mission in kosovo, and i can assure you that the democracy in the country, or at least the elections as they were conducted, are probably better and better prepared than in some of our countries. of course, as in other countries in the pre-accession process, there are problems in the judicial system, high levels of corruption, organized crime, media independence, and there is the huge issue of islamic fundamentalists. but i would like to draw your attention to the fact that in kosovo there are also conflicting interests and influences of neighbouring countries, such as russia and serbia, which are trying in every way to develop their influence in this territory. turkey is taking over the country religiously and economically, and thus we are left with only the possibility of being donors of funds, with no visible political benefit. it is the absence of a visible european union presence that makes many kosovars think that the european union has forgotten them. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, kosovo has more support than ever now.
in writing. – the eu asylum system is currently in shambles. the dublin regulation is legally alive but politically dead. the terms we all so commonly use – ‘solidarity’ and ‘shared responsibilities’ – have lost their meaning. meanwhile, council is dragging its feet. now, more than ever, we need commitment and real actions. because, let’s not forget, as somebody recently pointed, a vision without actions is simply a hallucination. being a member state is not a matter of cherry picking. it is not just about benefiting from european funds or protecting your national interests, but also contributing to collective efforts for tackling common challenges. it was greece, portugal and spain who were most affected by the economic crisis. today it is greece and italy struggling to cope with the migration inflow to europe. shall we just ‘duck and hide’ today and expect a helping hand tomorrow when the next crisis hits? solidarity is a two-way street. the recipe for success is simple: listen to the european citizens. and what the vast majority want is common solutions to the migration crisis, joint approach to security and defence and shared efforts on the social dimension.
i did not support this report because it represents an unrealistic and distorted view of what is happening in the western balkans and serbia's involvement in it, and therefore i cannot agree with this approach. first of all, i would like to note that the serbian policy of assimilation of national communities and attempts to influence and oppress them, including the bulgarian recognized minority in the area of the western bulgarian periphery, continues. the writing and publication of bulgarian textbooks under an agreement signed by serbia continues to be delayed, and the ones published are full of errors and falsify historical facts. i cannot help but note that the serbian state continues to work for the fragmentation and division of all national communities and continues to interfere in the internal affairs of neighboring states. the last example is the kosovo elections. it has recently been 100 years since the bosilogradsk pogrom. a memorial plaque was commissioned by the local people in the western bulgarian outskirts with the names of the victims. the authorities in bosilegrad and vrana did not allow it to be put up. for me, the path of the republic of serbia is through the cleansing of the country's relations and good relations first and foremost with its neighbours.
i supported this report. i see from my point of view a very strong geopolitical interest in serbia moving closer to the eu. i am convinced that if the eu does not take action against serbia and if we leave serbia so-called on its feet, then in short, russian influence in serbia will be strengthened. i consider that, from the point of view of the interests of the czech republic, which i represent here, to be a bad practice. that is why i supported this report. of course, we need to draw attention to the problems in serbia. the areas in which serbia is not yet ready for eu accession should be highlighted, but structural reforms should also be supported, such as reform of the judiciary, the police, a stronger fight against corruption, serious forms of economic crime. these are the things that the report critically describes. i think that is right, but we should not forget that it is in our interest to see serbia move closer to the eu in the long term.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because it presents how much progress kosovo has made, but i also warmly welcome the eu—kosovo stabilisation and association agreement that came into force last year, because it represents the very first step in the process of the integration of kosovo into the eu. the stabilisation and association agreement will help kosovo to implement much—needed reforms and will create trade and investment opportunities. from this perspective, i call on the kosovar authorities to continue to show clear political will and determination to implement the agreement, because the path towards european union integration requires a strategic long-term vision and sustained commitment in the adoption of the necessary reforms. in conclusion, i want to focus on the recent general election in kosovo, where the self—determination movement won. the future government should not fail to close the border demarcation deal with montenegro and further complicate relations with serbia. all political parties in the country have to create the conditions for a fruitful solution and a result—orientated dialogue with their neighbours.
i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that the western balkans must be encouraged on their way to the european union and nato, and because they must be torn out of the orbit of influence of neighbouring forces which are harmful and dangerous to this region and to all the member states of the european union. at the end of last week, my colleague selimovic and i were on an observation mission to kosovo on behalf of the european parliament, and i can assure you that the elections were conducted in a way that is probably more democratic than the elections that are held in some of our countries in terms of technology. of course, there are many problems - problems of corruption, problems of the rule of law, problems of the functioning of political parties and their financing - but they need to be clearly identified and addressed one by one. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that in kosovo there are conflicting interests and influences of many neighbouring countries. this is russia through serbia. this is of course also turkey, which also has its interests in the balkans. we as european countries must make sure that kosovo and its citizens choose their own path and that it is part of the european union.
i also supported this report, and what i said in the previous report stands. in short, the balkan countries need to be brought closer to the eu, not created as a barrier. as regards kosovo, some colleagues have already described the problems that plague that country. i would add to that other problems, such as the growing radicalization of islam. many kosovars are leaving to join the ranks of the islamic state to fight in syria. this is another problem that i consider to be worth mentioning here, but i am nonetheless pleased that the association agreement entered into force on 1 april 2016 and that the process of approximation with the eu has therefore been launched. we must be critical of kosovo, as we are of the other candidate countries, but constructively, i.e. with a clear offer that if the situation improves and is resolved, then eu membership will not be lost for this country.
i supported this report because, despite the many problems in the republic of macedonia, this brotherly country has its place in the european family. i should stress that we believe that the enlargement of the european union to the western balkans should happen, but of course the corresponding changes are also necessary. i strongly disagree with mr hahn's criticism of bulgaria and greece for opposing the opening of the negotiation process. but mr weigl's report rightly emphasises that the treaty of good neighbourliness and friendship with bulgaria is of the utmost importance in the conclusion of the negotiations. we want to stop the language of hate from media and institutions that create artificial conflict in the balkans. i believe that we must support the future accession of the republic of macedonia to the european family and that the falsification and theft of history by skopje historians must be stopped. i think that needs to change. then, of course, the republic of macedonia should become part of the european union.
i voted for the report because it is time for macedonia to put an end to this difficult period in its history and to open a new page in its democratic development. i welcome with great enthusiasm the formation of a new government in the country and the willingness of the new authorities to work for its rapid accession to nato and the european union. however, we must not forget that after a long period of political instability, macedonia needs accelerated reforms to help normalize the political and ethnic climate in the country. this is only possible if the new government serves the interests of the citizens and is based on the principles of transparency, equality and the rule of law. prime minister zaev needs to show the necessary political will and responsibility to launch the necessary reforms to promote a culture of tolerance and inclusion among different ethnic, national and religious communities. last but not least, i call on the european union to demonstrate strong political support for macedonia's european perspective, because only then will we be able to keep the dreams of two million citizens alive.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, just a few reflections on the basis of what i have heard in the debate. as a teenager, i went to spain. it was coming out of dictatorship, and as a young man coming from the netherlands i was shocked to see the abject poverty in spanish rural areas. not just the poverty in economic terms; also the poverty in moral terms. domestic violence was endemic. children did not go to school, or very badly to school. girls especially were not even encouraged to go to school. then look at spain today. look at what has been achieved. surely i am not claiming this for the european union – it was the spanish people who did that. but they could not have done that, i believe, in this measure without becoming members of the family of free european nations in the european union. as a soldier, i was trained to fight the eastern bloc. in 1989 the wall came down, which is without any doubt the most important political event in my lifetime. at that time, poland was in worse economic shape than ukraine. look at poland today where it is. i think the economy is five or six times bigger than the ukrainian economy. surely i do not claim that as a result of the european union – it is the polish people who did that. but i am sure the european union helped in achieving that, especially in terms of the rule of law. it is not just about the economy: it is about the independence of courts. it is about the predictability of jurisdiction, it is about the fight against corruption. so if people today say the european union is just a big shambles and a mess, they must have been blind over the last 40 years. let us not lose track of our historic achievements; that would be my first point. and if you know what we can achieve coming out of this crisis, where the number of jobs in europe now is higher than ever before – i know we still have many things to overcome – but let us have a bit more self-confidence that we can overcome this. look at what our parents and grandparents overcame. we can do so much better and so much more. we should not talk ourselves down in this. and let me stress this one thing. the values the european union is based upon, enshrined in article 2 of the treaty, have been signed and ratified by every single nation member of the eu, and yes, there are cultural differences and all sorts of differences. but article 2 is binding on every single member state and every single actor in that member state, and you cannot get rid of that responsibility simply by arguing along cultural lines. i believe the reason why we talk about re-foundation today is because we have understood that our union is not unbreakable. as long as you think it cannot be broken anyway, you do not care so much about fundamental values – they will be all right. but now that we see that our fundamental values are under threat, under fire, we know that we have to stand up for them and speak up for them more than ever before. i just want to say one thing about the christian foundations of europe, and i say this as a christian. yes, of course, christianity has a huge role in how we developed our values, but i would feel very uncomfortable as a christian, if another christian claimed the copyrights on european values as exclusively christian. we would not be here without the humanists, we would not be here without the enlightenment. it was my own church that needed to be enlightened. the spanish inquisition was not invented by atheists, so let us all take responsibility for what we contributed. but let us respect the diversity and the fact that the sources of our values are manifold and cannot be claimed only by one denomination or one political vision.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i thank the honourable members for their valuable comments, of which obviously i have taken good note, and you can rest assured that reflection on the future of europe will continue to be one of our top priorities. in exploring avenues for the eu to take in the future, we should perhaps bear in mind two things: one, that the eu cannot swiftly resolve all problems as if by magic; and two, that we have to balance our ideas with some practical constraints. these may sometimes limit us in our ambitions. so we need to be realistic about what we can and what we cannot do.
in writing. the need for reform of the european union is clear. we all know that. i think the current model of european governance is wrong. if we want europe to prosper, to be strong, then we must understand that the path to creating a federal union is a mistake. the citizens of europe are showing that they want change. in my view, the reform of europe must be in the direction of stronger national parliaments, stronger national institutions. european citizens have shown unequivocally that they want less european bureaucracy, easier regimes for business, tax competition between member states. i think europe should abandon the general approach, because each country is different in structure, has different norms and established order. we see a clear division emerging between germany and france on the one hand, and the countries of central and eastern europe on the other. this division is born of the double standards and hypocrisy of western politicians. europe must return to the original model of a union of sovereign states cooperating under the conditions of a common market.
there's no doubt that the panama papers is one of the biggest scandals we've seen in recent years. it's impressive that it takes more than a year to clear up allegations of high-level corruption. with the charges filed last april, mainly against you, mr. prime minister, as well as your chief of staff, the minister of energy and members of your family, we note that this important file is dragging on extremely long. i can see that as a member of the panama papers commission. moreover, your country currently holds the presidency of the council of europe during the current investigation. obstruction by key government bodies in the maltese political and law enforcement sphere is evident and visible, as reported mainly in the local media. only nine months after you, together with transparency without borders, signed a statement on an anti-corruption and zero tolerance approach, transparency without borders stated in an official communication of 9 august 2016 that malta needs to be cleaned of corruption before it goes to the eu council next year. such a case of corruption in the european union must be clarified as soon as possible.
madam president, the fernandes-bullmann report highlights major concerns that efsi does not provide complementary financing for high-risk projects and that small projects are deterred from applying for efsi financing. there is no procedure for tackling conflicts of interest, while there are cases where the eib has been pushing to support projects structured using firms in tax havens! no wonder then that the eu 15 have received 91% of efsi support while the eu 13 only 9%. article 7(2) of the efsi regulation stipulates that it is the steering board that shall determine the strategic orientation of efsi, its operating policy, procedures and rules and the risk profile of efsi. under the same article, three out of the four board members are appointed by the commission. therefore, what are the urgent and specific measures that the commission shall undertake in order to gain the trust of parliament and the council to grant authorisation for efsi 2?
in writing. in the first two years of its existence, the european fund for strategic investments has achieved tangible results, but the geographical distribution of projects remains a serious concern. due to their less developed financial markets, lack of administrative capacity and experience in the implementation of financial instruments, some countries continue to face difficulties in participating in the efsi. only about 10% of the investments mobilised by the fund are in central and eastern europe. this is particularly worrying given that most of the less developed regions are located in this part of the eu. it is therefore essential that measures are taken to diversify projects geographically in the continuation of the efsi, so as to ensure complementarity with traditional cohesion policy instruments. the efsi should support the overcoming of regional disparities and should not interfere with the efforts of certain countries to catch up. in this context, it is a good step to change the eligibility criteria so that smaller projects can also benefit from funding. the provision of technical assistance and consultancy services in project preparation and structuring, especially in countries with less developed financial markets, should also be improved.
the european fund for strategic investments has been in place for almost two years. the east-west divide in it, however, is still strongly visible. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. i was concerned to learn that instead of supporting a wider range of projects, the european investment bank was using the european union guarantee to promote projects that raised doubts about whether they met the established project selection criteria. i would like to add that for more than a year now we have been hearing from representatives of gerb how a project for an interconnector with greece was to be financed in bulgaria with the help of this fund. but that's still just words and promises. this project should finally be given priority, not just used in pr campaigns, because it's in the national security interest.
the fragmentation of the digital market of the european union significantly weakens its global competitiveness. the lack of funding for new market technologies, as well as legal uncertainty, are a major obstacle for european start-ups. small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the european economy and we must provide the necessary incentives for their development. i call on the european commission to continue to promote the growth of online platforms in the european union, because they provide smes with much-needed benefits such as access to global markets and growth opportunities. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. and furthermore, it seems crazy to me that we're talking about the deployment of 5g networks, while at the same time in most rural areas in bulgaria, for example, there's no 3g and 4g coverage. for these reasons, i have given my support to the report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 2 march this year we voted by a large majority a resolution obliging the commission to comply with european legislation on the issue of visa reciprocity. four months later, we are back where we were fourteen years ago - strategic inaction on the part of the european commission. the president of the united states has shown in recent months that he has no respect for international commitments. the european commission has apparently decided to tolerate this very model. i find the decision of the committee on legal affairs, supported by the political groups of the epp, alde and the conservatives, which voted against the will of the majority of members of the european parliament and against the interests of the citizens of bulgaria, romania, poland, cyprus and croatia, extremely disappointing. mr tajani, in your election speech you said that the european parliament needs a president who works for everyone. show that you can work for these 70 million europeans and take the necessary steps to stop discrimination against them.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to present to you today the report on the establishment of common minimum standards in civil procedure. it is clear that this project is of a european interest. discussions on the harmonisation of civil procedure in the european union started two decades ago with the presentation of the so-called storm report. as a result, the european union has adopted measures to approximate the rules of civil procedure of the member states, but these are not sufficient. i call on the european commission to propose a directive with concrete recommendations for establishing common minimum standards in civil procedure at european union level. citizens should be given the power to invoke the fundamental right to a fair trial and to an effective remedy wherever they are in the union and to assert those rights and to bring proceedings in the courts of other member states as easily as in their own member state. this proposal should be seen as a first step in the process of further harmonising and converging the civil justice systems of the member states and of establishing, in the longer term, a european code of civil procedure.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, cooperation with countries neighbouring the european union is important. i am convinced, however, that the assistance and assistance given to them should not be to the detriment of european producers. beekeepers, producers of oils and other products from my country bulgaria, have made several appeals to review imports from ukraine because they feel strong pressure from low import prices. the tariff quotas are a mechanism that ensures protection against unfair trading practices and, in my view, should only be granted after a risk assessment by all member states. sending positive political signals to third countries is important, but it should not take the form of economic pressure on european producers. i did not support an increase in duty-free imports from ukraine because i think that this measure is bad news and a mechanism for producers from countries like my own bulgaria.
madam president, the introduction of new technologies and digitalisation are opening up huge opportunities for new jobs. at the same time, however, this process presents a number of challenges for both employers and workers. 'zero-time' contracts and job insecurity are only part of this problem. i believe that in these circumstances it is imperative that the european parliament takes a firm stand on precarious employment and working conditions. a new regulatory framework is needed to ensure decent working conditions for the new types of employment that will be created as a result of digitalisation. i supported mr siliciotis' report because i believe that the european commission and the member states must ensure maximum protection for workers in the european union. special attention should be paid to young and elderly workers, as well as to those with disabilities who are most vulnerable.
in writing. europe is gradually recovering from the economic crisis. however, european citizens are still not seeing a tangible improvement in their standard of living. it's as if politicians are deaf to their concerns. i expect the european commission, in its 2018 work programme, to propose concrete actions in several key areas. first, an adequate response to high unemployment, especially youth unemployment, which remains high in a number of member states, including bulgaria. i call on the commission to ensure stable funding for the youth employment initiative by 2020. secondly, we need a working digitalisation strategy that takes into account not only the needs of businesses but also those of citizens. in the eu, 40% of workers lack digital skills. in bulgaria, only 31% have basic digital skills. i will expect the new commissioner, maria gabriel, to propose concrete measures to develop digital skills so that all european citizens can make the most of the benefits of the digital single market. third, a strong european pillar of social rights. it is time for the commission to propose legislation to guarantee decent working conditions for all. access to social protection should also be ensured for new forms of employment linked to digitalisation.
in writing. over the past few years, we have observed with concern the continuing deterioration of the atmosphere of security and stability in europe. the civil war in ukraine, the continuing terrorist attacks against peaceful citizens in europe, the declining trust and cooperation between the countries of the continent create an atmosphere of unpredictability and tension that can lead to escalation and new waves of violence. in this context, i believe that the eu should do everything possible to deepen security and defence cooperation between member states. the union must guarantee the future and peace of mind of all european citizens, and this can only happen by increasing investment in defence technology and strengthening the single security market. last but not least, i would like to emphasise that the security of europe depends on the partnership with nato. the creation of a common european army, in full cohesion with nato, will create a direct link between the eu and nato and guarantee peace and stability in europe.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to welcome the publication of the much-awaited reflection paper on the future of the european union's financial means until 2025 and, above all, the pragmatic and realistic approach it contains. the main emphases i would like to highlight are above all the search for added value and maximum impact in funding the priorities of the european union. the reduced union budget is expected to play a greater role in new policy areas such as migration, internal and external security and the defence of the european union. the increased focus and drive for greater impact in the fight against climate change is reflected in the report. support for structural reforms in the member states creates the necessary conditions for the implementation of european policies and should naturally be continued as a trend in the preparation of the multiannual financial framework. european territorial cooperation is one example of added value where maximum impact is achieved with minimum resources.
in writing. the document sets out a complex debate on the benefits of cohesion policy for the union. the long-term added value is a performance criterion, with projects with high added value receiving full funding and less effective ones being partially or totally excluded from the budget. at the same time, brexit and the prioritisation of migration, security and defence policies will lead to a significant budget deficit. cohesion policy has proven to have a high added value for the eu as a whole, not just for the least developed countries. over the period 2007-2013, with a budget of €347 billion, it has employed over 9.4 million people, supported over 400 000 small and medium-sized enterprises and created over 1 million new jobs. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. at the same time, net financial exporters receive 80% of the return through the free market. however, in four of the five scenarios proposed, cohesion funding was reduced in favour of the new priority policies. i urge that the commitment to cohesion policy be maintained and that the application process be further simplified. the level of grant funding should also be maintained and private co-financing should be encouraged, as well as the policy of co-financing by complementary european funds should be extended at different project stages.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to stress that when we give the mandate for negotiations next week, we must not allow any departure from the projected values set out in the budget. we must not allow a reduction that is mechanical, without regard to policy. as the commissioner mentioned, we have to look at things one step at a time. in particular, i would like to note the proposed increase of 25,7% in the level of payment appropriations under heading 1b in the 2018 draft budget, as well as a 2,4% increase in commitment appropriations. it is essential to maintain these budgetary parameters in order to be able to pay the increased calls for payments under the structural funds and the implementation of programmes. this is important to demonstrate the quality of the programmes, it is important to maintain the trust of european citizens in the european union.
mr president, the eu enjoys both a long-established relationship and a constructive dialogue with saudi arabia, which is an important partner in the unstable middle east region. nevertheless, the eu should not turn a blind eye to the worsening human-rights situations in the country, particularly when it comes to women’s rights. saudi discrimination against women is visible in law and in practice. unfortunately women in saudi arabia continue not to have equal rights with men. they are forced to live under the oppressive male guardianship system which enables men to maintain control over female relatives. from this perspective, i do not believe that saudi arabia’s election as a member of the un commission on the status of women will promote women’s rights, empower women or bring about gender equality in the world. therefore i call on the eu to monitor the human-rights situation in the country closely and to become more actively involved in guaranteeing the rights of women.
madam president, the rapporteur, silvia costa, rightly points out that culture is of key importance in the european union's external diplomatic relations, because it has the merit of stimulating dialogue and mutual understanding. i also believe that it should be an integral part of the dialogue with third countries and be systematically integrated into development projects and programmes. i support the call for the establishment of a mechanism to support the protection of the world's cultural heritage. efforts at international level must be stepped up, as well as the fight against illicit trade in cultural artefacts, conflict prevention and the promotion of creative industries. last but not least, i would also like to draw attention to the need to remove barriers to the mobility of artists and cultural workers and to promote preferences such as the provision of special visas.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to share with you our views on a number of key topics in the traditional form of an annual recommendation to the council. the objective is to contribute to the preparation of the eu priorities for the united nations general assembly session each autumn, which the council normally adopts in july. we agreed on 18 compromises based on 255 amendments. i would like to thank all the colleagues who contributed to the final version of this report, the members of the eu-un working group, the shadow rapporteurs, rapporteurs and political advisors for their constructive approach and the secretariat of the committee on foreign affairs for its excellent support. the annual united nations general assembly recommendations report empowers our institution to present its opinion via the council to the un general assembly on issues ranging from peace and security, through climate change, to advocacy of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. in its report, parliament recommends that the council, inter alia, should:continue to call for full respect for the sovereignty, internationally recognised borders and territorial integrity of eastern european and south caucasus countries, namely georgia, moldova and ukraine, in the light of the violations of international law in these areas; draw the attention of the un member states to the increase in tensions between some countries in the western balkans; urge their leaders to show restraint in their regional policies, with the eu and the un remaining fully involved in seeking lasting solutions to bilateral differences, including by acting as mediators where necessary; further encourage the un’s efforts to bring about peace in afghanistan and to overcome the fragile security environment in the country; strongly condemn the actions of the north korean leadership that threaten peace and security in the korean peninsula and beyond;reiterate its unequivocal condemnation of terrorism and its full support for actions aimed at defeating and eradicating terrorist organisations; and step up efforts to clamp down on the recruitment of terrorists;support un efforts to prevent non-state actors and terrorist groups from developing, manufacturing, acquiring or transferring weapons of mass destruction and their delivery systems, and to insist on full compliance with the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, the chemical weapons convention and the biological weapons convention;call for a strengthening of the global response to migration and address the challenges and security concerns stemming from aspects of illegal migration, such as people-smuggling and human trafficking;reiterate its condemnation of any act of violence, harassment or persecution against human-rights defenders, and push for stronger engagement in promoting the rule of law;take concrete steps to ensure the efficient implementation of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and its 17 sustainable development goals, adopted by the un general assembly in september 2015;ensure that the eu remains committed to the fight against climate change and call on all un member states to uphold the paris agreement;regain trust in multilateralism and try to convince all the un member states that this approach is the right one and that the un should remain an internationally recognised organisation in so many challenging places on our planet.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam mogherini, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr andrei kovachev, for his efforts and the other members for the preparation of this text. the positive vote on the recommendation is of the utmost importance as it outlines the framework of the european union's priorities for the forthcoming un general assembly. moreover, it is no secret that many of the eu's member states are divided on many global issues, and i believe that identifying common priorities is an opportunity to show the international community that the european union can play an important role on the global stage, but also speak with one voice. as shadow rapporteur for the alde group, i am extremely pleased that the committee on foreign affairs has managed to draw up a consolidated text in which some essential proposals for our democratic values have been voted. the report clearly underlines that the european union is one of the most committed defenders and promoters of human rights, fundamental freedoms and diversity, the fight against climate change, democracy and the rule of law. at the same time, the european union must continue to support multilateral efforts to find lasting political and peaceful solutions to the ongoing conflicts in the middle east and north africa. but also to continue to call for full respect for the internationally recognised borders and territorial integrity of the countries of eastern europe and the south caucasus, and to support the resumption of diplomatic efforts for a peaceful settlement of the ongoing and frozen conflicts. of course, the recommendation clearly outlines our consistent support for comprehensive reform of the un security council so that it best meets the new global realities. in conclusion, i would like to draw your attention to the alde amendment on the cyprus reunification negotiations. we are now in the final phase of these historic negotiations and i believe that the european union can send a strong signal by declaring its full support for the efforts made by the un to achieve a comprehensive settlement of the division of the island. there are no losers in a successful conclusion of the trial, only winners. and we need to support all of our... (the president cut off the speaker)
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank all my colleagues, and also ms mogherini, for the good cooperation. the key word is indeed effective multilateralism, as you called it, and to regain trust in this global system of preventing conflicts and having long—lasting solutions for citizens in different places on our planet. as you said, we support the newly-elected united nations secretary—general’s reform agenda. the eu must encourage the impetus for reform of the us peace and security architecture, the function and the architecture of the secretariat through simplification, decentralisation and flexibility, and the streamlining of financial organisation. but we also need to do our homework here in the european parliament and in our representations in order to coordinate the work of our ambassadors there as much as possible, not only in europe, but also in other places in rome, in bonn and other un places where we have representations, to work for a common european architecture for security and defence, as well as a common european system for the exchange of intelligence information, which can also be used to prevent terrorism.
in writing. for too long, european funds have been falling into the wrong hands and there has been no strong mechanism to fight fraud with them. according to the european commission, fraud involving european funds amounted to eur 600 million in 2010. with the adoption of the eu financial interests directive, member states will have a new, modern and adequate tool to ensure that european funds go where they are intended - to help the average european, to help businesses, to help municipalities, and not to go into the pockets of criminals. given that 80% of eu funds are managed at national level, the introduction of common definitions, the criminalisation at european level of misappropriation of funds, the presentation of false documents, the laundering of eu funds, and active and passive corruption will help national authorities to investigate cases of fraud. the inclusion of vat fraud of over eur 10 million committed in two or more countries is a major victory for the european parliament and will contribute to an even more effective fight against this type of crime. it is now time for member states to transpose the directive as quickly as possible so that fraud with european citizens' money can be stopped.
rapporteur. – madam president, the oral amendment i would like us to suggest is ‘to end the division of cyprus’.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report because undoubtedly culture is a common good; it is inseparably linked to human rights and fundamental freedoms. but culture is also a tool that builds bridges between people and reinforces mutual understanding. looking from this perspective, i warmly welcome the eu strategy for intercultural relations, because it aims to promote a global order based on peace, rule of law, freedom of expression, intercultural and interreligious dialogue, mutual understanding and respect for fundamental values. in light of this, i call on the commission to strengthen the impact of the cultural dimension in international relations by including the cultural dimension systematically in negotiations and in association agreements. in addition, the commission and external action service have to include international cultural relations in international cooperation instruments and programmes in a horizontal way in order to ensure a coherency and to turn them into efficient tools.
madam president, concerning the 2016 report on turkey, we can underline several developments which play a significant role in eu—turkey relations: the coup attempt, the measures taken under the state of emergency, the delayed process of eu accession negotiations and the outcome of the referendum at the beginning of 2017. despite making conditions for a formal suspension of the negotiation process, the report invites the commission, the member states and turkey to hold an open and honest dialogue and discussion on all areas of mutual interest. several important issues for the reinvigoration of the accession process could be underlined. there are areas in which both sides are interested in continuing to work: counter—terrorism, migration, energy, the economy and trade. due to the geopolitical challenges, it is necessary for the eu and turkey to undertake measures for closer cooperation and coordination of their foreign policy activities; a structured and more frequent high-level dialogue on key thematic issues should be supported as well. in order to enhance relations in the future, we should continue to work closely on the upgrading of the customs union, visa liberalisation, the continuation of the eu’s long-term sustainment of refugees in turkey. stronger cooperation between europol and turkish law enforcement agencies is of the utmost importance.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. han, colleagues, colleague pirie's report is critical, which means it's largely good. i think that we have heard so many critical words in this chamber for the first time, and they have their reasons. there's a little irony in the fact that for three years i've been saying these words in this room, and they're finally starting to be heard. anyway, better late than never. the fact is, the things listed in the report are true: turkey is not a democratic country right now, erdogan's turkey. erdogan is violating human rights, violating the rights of journalists, supporting the islamic state in syria and iraq, fighting illegally in those territories, and let me add that's not all. erdogan is meddling through fake parties in a number of eu member states, including my native bulgaria. these things must be stopped. this can't go on. this turkey - erdogan's turkey - continues to occupy cyprus and hold a 30,000-strong occupation army, and to prevent the rapprochement and unification of cyprus by not wanting to withdraw its troops from there. so, ladies and gentlemen, it is good that these things are realized as soon as possible. it's nice to forget about political correctness and tell it like it is.
mr president, the european fund for sustainable development (efsd) as a new financial instrument should mobilise more than eur 40 billion of investment in the states of africa and the european neighbourhood. it will create growth and employment, deliver innovative products and involve private sector funds. the european parliament on several occasions has expressed its position, stressing the need to strengthen the link between migration and development policies. by keeping poverty eradication as a main priority, it is necessary to involve the private sector in this effort. for the successful implementation of efsd, several conditions should be taken into account. regarding the nature of the blended finance, financial institutions and private entities should respect eu commitments toward full transparency and accountability, guaranteeing a balanced geographical approach in order to allow potential beneficiaries to have access to funding, providing information and guidance for investors in the development activities as well as assessment of the quality of operations. finally, i would like to underline the importance of the external investment plan to the implementation of the new partnership framework. the security dimensions of the plan are unconditional.
in writing. insufficient investment in healthcare is a serious problem in many eu countries. european health systems are struggling to respond to the pressing challenges of an ageing population, shortages in public budgets and growing health inequalities. in the context of the economic crisis, the stability of public finances has been put at the forefront of sustainable investment in health, but these objectives are not incompatible. ensuring equal access to quality healthcare is key to sustainable health systems as it has the potential to reduce health inequalities between and within member states. more efforts are needed to overcome barriers to access to healthcare at the level of patients, providers and healthcare systems. the european union must integrate its commitments stemming from the '2030 agenda for sustainable development' into all its actions and policies. the european union should also encourage member states to avoid short-term decisions on health investment and help them to provide quality health services that are affordable and do not lead to financial hardship for patients.
member of the commission. – mr president, i appreciate the valuable comments and questions raised in this debate. we have just started to discuss this subject with you and other stakeholders. although we have an interest in concluding these discussions as soon as possible, we are aware that, due to their legal and political complexities, they may require time. it is clear that we have the same objective. we all want to make the eu’s trade and investment policy to be more stable, effective and credible for the benefit of our eu citizens. our analysis and discussions apply to all trade agreements that have not been ratified yet. this also includes free-trade agreements with vietnam and singapore. we are considering all options that could strengthen the eu’s trade and investment policy, but we do not want to prejudge the outcome of this process before having properly discussed it with this house, member states and other stakeholders. we are therefore looking forward to further exchanges on these issues with the european parliament. this is a difficult position for me as i hold a different portfolio, but this is the commission position.
member of the commission. – mr president, as mr andersson has already underlined, the directive and the regulation that we are discussing today jointly implement in eu law the marrakesh treaty to facilitate access to published works for persons who are blind, visually impaired, or otherwise print disabled, which was adopted by the world intellectual property organisation four years ago. this is a very important step for the european union, one that responds to very concrete needs and one of which we should be very proud. the significance of improving access to books and other printed texts for persons who have disabilities that prevent them from reading in the same way as persons without those disabilities should not be underestimated. so i warmly thank the rapporteur, mr andersson, as well as all the shadow rapporteurs and rapporteurs for opinion, for their effort and determination in reaching a meaningful outcome in the few months since the adoption of the commission’s proposals. i am also glad that these proposals have been part of the commission’s effort to achieve a digital single market in all its dimensions and for all our citizens. they are also the first proposals of our copyright modernisation package from september 2016 to be adopted by parliament. still today, too little print material can be accessed by people with print disabilities worldwide. addressing this problem is fundamental for social inclusion and societal advancement. doing so will benefit people with print disabilities and it will benefit everybody else. in line with the marrakesh treaty, these two pieces of eu legislation will allow the production of copies of works in accessible formats by means of a mandatory exception to copyright, harmonised across the eu. they will also permit the exchange of these copies across borders, within the european union and with third countries that are parties to the treaty. this possibility for cross-border exchange is very important. it reduces the unnecessary duplication of efforts and costs. it also allows persons with print disabilities to have faster access to a broader range of works than is possible today. i also welcome the fact that the outcome of the negotiations by parliament and the council ensures transparency and keeps the burden and complications for beneficiaries to a minimum, for example when it comes to compensation schemes. i trust that we will also be celebrating soon the ratification of the marrakesh treaty by the european union, which, together with these proposals, will finally make the treaty a reality for people with print disabilities.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on culture and education. mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, and many of my colleagues in the chamber, i will also speak in support of the marrakesh treaty and the agreement reached between the three institutions, and i will highlight the benefits that this treaty and its application will bring to the visually impaired and other disabled. it is about the more than 30 million visually impaired people living in the member states of the european union and their rights and access to information. the commission's proposal to implement this treaty comes at a time when there has been some disagreement in the council as to who and when should ratify the treaty, given that it was signed in 2013 by over 60 countries. i thank the colleagues with whom we have worked successfully on the opinion drawn up by the committee on culture and education and on the successful cooperation with the european blind union. i would also like to stress that bulgaria is already working on a number of initiatives to further improve access and i am sure that this cause will be supported even more vigorously during our forthcoming presidency of the council.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, european union law will finally be brought into line with the international requirements of the marrakesh treaty. finally, access to books and other printed material protected by copyright and related rights will be facilitated for blind people, people with visual impairments, dyslexia or other disabilities that prevent them from reading printed material. i am pleased that these pieces of legislation will be adopted and will make life easier for millions of european citizens. their educational opportunities will also be improved. the adoption of this legislation will also improve the exchange of audiobooks and other printed materials accessible to visually impaired people. it is important that member states now take initiatives to promote the objectives of the marrakesh treaty so that our citizens can make the most of the opportunity they have been given.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr pirri, once again on the general tone of his report, which is deservedly critical of the current leadership of the republic of turkey. this is undoubtedly a step in the right direction of the european union's policy towards the processes in the country. i voted against the report, however, because there are a number of extremely problematic points. nowhere is the accelerating process of transformation of the kemalist secular republic into a religious islamic dictatorship addressed. it's not compatible with the values we claim to uphold here. and despite the criticism of the human rights violations, the report lacks the specific problem of erdogan and the islamization of the country. moreover, this year we have witnessed unprecedented and intentional interference by the republic of turkey in the internal affairs of countries both in western europe and in my homeland bulgaria. this must not be allowed to happen and, on the contrary, the accession negotiations must not just be frozen but stopped once and for all. a kemalist turkey that is committed to secular values is a good partner for the union, it could be an ally. the same cannot be said for an islamizing dictatorship.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have chosen to vote 'abstention' on this report because, in my view, it says nothing and everything. i believe the term "sustainability" is so used that it is meaningless. it is not rational or useful to discuss so many areas and problems in a single document. the only thing this report has done is to exchange opinions. and while i am inclined to agree with much of what has been said, such as improving air quality and revitalising rural areas, i cannot accept the proposal to increase the funding of official development assistance, the so-called oda. experience shows that blindly pouring money into troubled areas of the world through development and sustainability tools just doesn't work. i don't think spending european taxpayers' money on projects like this is helpful. i would support such spending from these instruments only if it is linked to a mandatory increase in security in troubled areas and a reduction in the immigration pressure on europe. however, such proposals are lacking. therefore, despite the report's several useful applications, i could not support it.
mr president, the outermost regions of the european union, like other less favoured regions such as the mountainous regions, are an integral part of the european union. however, given their specific characteristics, such as remoteness, they have a more difficult access to the common european market. i therefore believe that these regions should have a special status and targeted and facilitated support from the european union budget. cohesion policy is an important tool that creates the conditions for economic development and prosperity for these regions, and it should therefore remain beyond 2020. remote regions, like mountain regions, have the potential to produce quality products. therefore, they should have simplified rules for the preparation and protection of the relevant quality schemes. i call on the european commission to increase targeted funding and information campaigns on protected geographical indication schemes, because these schemes provide valuable opportunities for creating, maintaining and developing livelihoods in remote and mountainous regions.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the brazilian meat scandal comes at a worrying time for the european union, when there is another scandal raging throughout central and eastern europe, with the different quality of food products in western europe and in central and eastern europe. the studies carried out in the czech republic, slovakia and bulgaria, unfortunately, not only do not dispel these suspicions, but also largely confirm them. this, of course, is expected to arouse the righteous anger of millions of citizens of the eu member states in central and eastern europe, who expect to receive the same quality they have paid for and seen in advertisements. so the double standard and the 'second-hand' citizens as they feel are completely unacceptable and the brazilian meat scandal also reinforces these rather bad negative expectations. the european commission should propose measures and solutions to these issues and suggest how exactly such conflicts can be avoided.
mr president, i see the problem in the same way as my predecessors. on the one hand, mrs von storch raises the very important question of the future intensity of cooperation between european countries in the field of defence, that is to say, whether it will be structured cooperation only in areas such as industry, research, defence, etc., or whether it will even lead to a common army in the future. but unfortunately, the way the question is put, i have to say that it is very misleading and that something is being put into mr juncker's mouth that he has not said. and here i am saying clearly, defending european values, for me, mrs von storch, is defending human rights. this is a key issue, it's a topic that we have to present, we debate it often here, and today the european union is already one of the few global players that is permanently defending human rights. and that, i think, is very important, and we should be grateful for that. and your questioning the role of the united states of america, which twice saved this continent in world war i and ii, seems to me to be inappropriate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the subject of a european army is a perennial controversy. duplicating nato is unwise, economically unprofitable and technically unfeasible. the member states of the north atlantic treaty are not even fulfilling their obligations to spend 2% of their gross domestic product on their defence and at least 20% on rearmament and the purchase of new weapons. defense cooperation is a different matter. that's what you think about, and that's what you talk about. if it's about collective purchase of weapons, collective equipment for the training of the armed forces, that's something that would be useful. it can be thought that the commission has a role here, so that individual countries are specialized in the production of different mechanical equipment, equipment of different combat machines for aviation, armored equipment and naval forces. this would already be beneficial for the economies of the member states of the european union.
in writing. today we are not voting for just one programme for 120 million euros. i would like to believe that today we are doing much more than just one step in the two transformations that the eu so badly needs. the first is europe's digital transformation, which allows us to catch up with our global competitors in the digital economy and innovation. the second transformation is that of citizens' perception of europe. with programmes like wifi4eu, we are changing the image of the eu as something that no longer just fills out forms, but is useful to people. so wifi4eu is very much transformation4eu. but beyond these prospects, we have to realize that we are halfway to achieving wireless internet coverage. from now on, we as meps must work together with local authorities to make sure that wifi4eu does not only reach those who already know what broadband is. it's important that it gets to where it can create more opportunities for knowledge, for new ventures and ideas.
in writing. the january 2009 gas crisis along the russia-ukraine-eu route has clearly shown how vulnerable the countries of central and eastern europe are and that they cannot cope with a similar situation on their own. the agreed new regulation on the security of gas supply ensures a working mechanism to adequately respond to such crisis scenarios through binding regional cooperation based on a joint country and region risk assessment. the new legislation imposes a new behaviour of solidarity and interaction between neighbouring countries in the event of gas supply disruptions and transforms the spirit of solidarity in europe from a political declaration into a concrete legally binding act. the new legal framework establishes the introduction of a list of protected customers, including public buildings, hospitals and schools, which must be prioritised in the event of an emergency interruption of supply. the regulation also creates unprecedented transparency in the contracts of third-country gas supply companies, which must be made available to national regulators and the ec to assess whether they affect security of supply. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the energy union (eu) 2020 strategy, which aims to improve the energy performance of the union by 2020 and to enhance the competitiveness of the union's energy sector.
in writing. the scandal of the fipronil-contaminated eggs this summer is unfathomable. contaminated eggs and products are present in 26 member states and possibly dozens of others worldwide. my homeland, bulgaria, is also among those affected. the whole sector is in shock, the market is still not stabilizing, and the losses for farmers, producers and end users are likely to amount to hundreds of millions of euros. i would like to know from the commission whether the source countries have duly informed the relevant authorities through the rapid alert system for food and feed and, if so, within what timeframe? in the event that the commission did not have timely information, what measures does it intend to take against these countries? can we expect infringement procedures against european legislation soon, or will we rather seek revision and change of notification procedures? i expect citizens to receive timely and reliable information. the news on the subject is at times contradictory, which confuses and scares consumers, while creating additional uncertainty in the market. in this regard, i call on the competent authorities to ensure full transparency on the presence of contaminated products and adequate action to remove them from the market. i look forward to swift and decisive action to prevent the problem and limit the damage to european producers and consumers.
mr president, i have supported this vote because life-long learning is a necessity in today’s dynamic, technologically—driven societies. customised distance learning which offers more flexible access to education is becoming essential, especially for people with special needs and other vulnerable groups, people in employment or people living in remote areas. mr president, academic further and distance education are rapidly expanding sectors with significant potential in terms of economic growth and job creation as they pay and play an increasingly important role in facilitating the adaption of workers to economic and technological change throughout their professional lives. it has become clear that in order to remain competitive, and to give low- and high-skilled workers alike the best chance of success, businesses together with education and training institutions need to offer training and career—focused education throughout people’s working lives.
mr president, mr zwer's report highlights some of the main problems facing academic continuing and distance education. many find it difficult to work and study at the same time, while others cannot afford to go to the university of their choice or to move to a more remote area because of a lack of financial resources. regular attendance is a challenge for young people living in remote and sparsely populated areas. more flexible education systems, in particular distance learning, can be a solution to these challenges. i therefore believe it is extremely important to ensure access to it and to improve its quality so that young people can be more adaptable to changing conditions and become more competitive. i think it is also extremely important to pay attention to the need to recognise skills and competences acquired outside the formal education system. traditional education is not the only way to professional success. today, employers increasingly value and seek skills that are acquired outside the classroom. it is distance learning that provides an opportunity to upgrade skills and acquire skills without compromising work-life balance.
mr president, the european union is and remains the largest trading bloc in the world. but with that glory comes responsibility, both to third countries and to our own citizens. i support this report because i believe that the union should respond even more effectively to social and economic dumping and unfair trading practices and ensure a level playing field. however, this should not apply only to third countries. i would like to express my disapproval of the approach of many multinational companies in the european union which abuse the economic situation of other member states. pressure on suppliers and heavy commitment contracts are just the tip of the iceberg. the social and economic dumping that some western politicians talk about is reflected in the actions of many of their companies in the countries of so-called eastern and central europe, which, for example, pay less for the same work and responsibility. this and other injustices like it must stop.
in writing. for me, as a mep, a european citizen and above all as a bulgarian, the eu budget reflects the priorities of the people. for six decades it has been the shuttle for the political priorities of the member states and the institutions. the 161 billion euro is not just money, it is an investment by europe in its own future. as a representative of the european parliament, my greatest responsibility is to defend the interests of european citizens and bulgarians. additional funding for road infrastructure and scientific innovation should be a priority in the eu budget for next year. the aim is to be able to finance more of the good projects in these two areas in bulgaria. the data shows that there are more quality projects in our country than the commission can finance. at the same time, in the 2018 budget, i will defend security and consumer awareness, as well as european culture. the 'horizon 2020' programme, the connectivity instrument, the 'creative europe' programme and the consumer programme are the shortest way to prosperity for union citizens. the eu has been an ambitious project for the last 25 years and we must be just as ambitious in the forthcoming budget negotiations. success is when you can fly, even in stormy weather. this applies both to aviation and to the preparation and implementation of the budget.
mr. chairman, today we are faced with the sad results of an unwise and misguided policy. first, the breakup of the nation states in north africa and the middle east, which involved european countries and turned those countries into territories ruled by criminal gangs and jihadist gangs. secondly, it was the wrong policy to say to every single illegal immigrant from all over the world, 'you are welcome on the territory of the european continent'. thirdly, the continuing unreasonable policy of forcible resettlement of illegal immigrants in european union countries. let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that there are countries in the european union which have no colonial past, that there are countries which are not responsible for the damage, the genocide, which has been caused to the territories of other peoples and to other continents, and it is absolutely unreasonable for these peoples to be forced, against the will of their own nation states, to accept quotas of illegal immigrants. this must be a sovereign decision, a sovereign wish of each nation state. fourth, a qualitatively new policy must be put in place, and this policy must clearly say to other peoples and continents: 'no chance in mass illegal immigration'.
mr. chairman, for four years now, we've been trying to solve the refugee crisis in europe and to reduce the overall immigration pressure. for countries at the forefront of migration flows, such as italy, greece, bulgaria, the issue of finding an effective and rapid solution with a long-term outcome is of particular importance. however, unfortunately, there is still no position in either the european parliament or the council on the amendment of the dublin regulation and in particular its basic principle of the responsibility of the member state of first entry for the applicant for protection. the change in the current principle is of particular importance and will be a demonstration of genuine solidarity. the european union still lacks strategically important readmission agreements with the countries of origin of the thousands of economic migrants who continue to reach italy's shores. on the other hand, the control of refugee flows is based on ad hoc solutions, such as cooperation with turkey and afghanistan. it is time for the european union to implement the signing and implementation of readmission agreements with the main countries of origin and transit. it is time to speed up the return procedures for illegal migrants and those who do not qualify for international protection. it is time for potential migrants who come to europe illegally and only in search of a better life, and not because they have a real need for international protection, to understand that the european union is not the solution to their problems. the european union has the financial and political means to make those words a reality. it's time to do it! (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. mr president, in the current regulation, unfortunately the burden for all those who enter the european union is on the first member states and this exposes countries like greece, bulgaria, italy to a very large migrant pressure and especially economic difficulties in welcoming all these people and care. so there has to be european solidarity, so that the frontline countries can take these people in, they can live where they want to live and there are enough economic opportunities for their normal way of life.
in writing. the agreement signed with the republic of turkey and the measures to stop the balkan route have produced tangible results in recent months. unfortunately, this is not enough, and the intense flow of arrivals on italy's coasts during the summer is a clear signal that we must do more to tackle the migration crisis. once again, we must point to the main cause of instability and the continuing military conflicts in the countries of north africa and the middle east. the complexity and scale of the crisis require joint and coordinated efforts by all member states and pan-european solidarity. indeed, it is the ineffective individual action of member states on migration that creates a sense of incompetence among eu citizens, and this generates xenophobia and intolerance. in this context, i admire the european court of justice's ruling in recent days on the solidarity distribution of migrants and i appeal to all member states to work together and accelerate progress in the implementation of common european policies. managing illegal migration flows is about protecting the external borders and helping member states under pressure. now is the time to show that we can work together!
mr president, turkey is not a european country, not culturally, not civilisationally, not historically. in this sense, its full membership of the european union is neither necessary nor possible. the turkish government continues to follow a dangerous neo-ottoman doctrine, continues to interfere in the internal affairs of sovereign neighboring countries, in the elections in bulgaria, in greece, in germany, in the netherlands. he continues to occupy cyprus illegally. that is why we have been saying for years, for three years at least, that these negotiations must be stopped. finally, chancellor merkel, finally our former colleague schulz heard these calls and repeated them. i hope that these are not just pre-election promises, but that they are kept and implemented after the elections. any concession that is made to the dictator erdogan is unnecessary and unwise because it only strengthens him, because it gives him more opportunities to continue to crush civil society, to violate democratic rights and freedoms, and to continue to turn his country into a dictatorship. in this context, i would like to ask when sanctions will be imposed on this authority in turkey, which is violating everything that is being discussed in this chamber.
madam president, i would like to thank president juncker for his speech. president juncker, i know that you are a deeply convinced european and, in your sixth scenario, i do not see a europe which is divided or a several speed europe, which is very positive. but, at the same time, you know that people are tired of words and promises and it is time for action from the commission as well. the strongest tool which you possess as a commission is the draft of your budget for the next multiannual financial framework. we should stop thinking about how to reduce the european budget but look for own resources. we should really focus on political priorities and the major priority is how to move from a europe of divergence and inequalities towards a europe of convergence, strong economic growth and social justice. frankly speaking, i expected a stronger social dimension. we really need a european social action plan today in order to regain trust.
mr president, i welcome what i have heard from mr juncker. our aim now is to make it happen, and my appeal is to the member states. they are the ones who are primarily responsible for how effective or ineffective the european union is. very often, unfortunately, national selfishness trumps solidarity. over the next year, the european union must prove that these promises of physical and social security for european citizens will become a reality. here we must focus our efforts on greater cooperation in defence, the fight against terrorism, the protection of external borders, the limitation of migration flows and the solidarity of burden-sharing. i welcome the proposal for a european intelligence agency, finally a european cyber agency. at the same time, the european union must not back down from its commitments in the fields of regional development, competitiveness, innovation and health, which directly affect the living standards of european citizens. now is the time for decisive steps towards greater integration where the crisis has hit us hardest. the eurozone must be consolidated, but not at the expense of the integrity of the european union. i welcome what you said that we do not need a separate eurozone budget and we do not need a separate eurozone parliament. the european union must not be divided into a core and a periphery.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, there is no doubt that erasmus is one of the most successful eu programmes. together with promoting student and staff mobility, the programme has proven to be a catalyst for encouraging higher education institutions to fully develop their cooperation, to modernise, and to become more international in their outlook. many studies of the participants themselves have confirmed that an international environment is the best way to learn about different cultures, improve a multi-cultural understanding and knowledge of language, establish international contacts, develop new skills and grow as a person and as a professional. undoubtedly, erasmus is a tremendous success, but we should now focus on how further to develop, modernise and simplify the programme and make it more accessible and inclusive. the commission, together with the member states, should overcome the existing complexity of the application process and often slow administrative management. commissioner, while shaping the future of the programme, we need to make sure that the voice of the youth is heard and that their vision on how best to improve the programme is taken on board.
the rapporteur. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the co-rapporteur, mrs martina dlabayeva, and the other shadow rapporteurs for the constructive work and good spirit of cooperation that has accompanied us during the negotiations and the long work of consolidating the final version of the european parliament's report. i take this opportunity to emphasise my satisfaction that the committee on education and culture is working on an equal footing with the committee on employment and social affairs. the result of our joint work is a text that not only takes into account the current needs of the labour market, but offers a broader approach that also focuses on education and its paramount importance in building competent and confident individuals who have the skills to face future challenges. the commission's communication 'a new european skills agenda' was long awaited and rightly focuses attention on the need to modernise european education and training systems in line with the rapidly changing economic and social context. however, i am of the opinion that the proposed package of measures, while quite ambitious, focuses primarily on the current needs of a labour market which is in fact quite dynamic and the skills needed today will not be the skills needed in 10 or 20 years' time. furthermore, the main role of education systems is not only to prepare people for business, but above all to contribute to the personal growth of people, to make them responsible and engaged individuals. i think we need to think beyond the right skills for employment and look at those aspects of education that teach young people how to think critically, how to be creative and how to be able to make informed decisions. in this context, i would like to draw attention to a few key points which are at the heart of the european parliament's report. firstly, the social dimension of the skills programme must be strengthened, which i think is completely absent from the report itself. there is a consensus that education helps to bring people together, to fight inequality and poverty. however, the skills programme proposed by the commission does not offer a long-term vision that includes participation in pre-school education. the fight against early school leaving is unfortunately not in place either. given that this pattern of inequality has existed since the earliest years of learning, it is not surprising that today we have 70 million people in the european union who lack basic reading, writing and arithmetic skills. the only way to overcome this problem is to invest in inclusive education that responds to social challenges and provides equal access for all. finally, if we want young and talented people to stay in europe, seeking a better future and opportunities for fulfilment abroad, we must ensure that we create the right conditions for them to develop here. i want to give you an example from my country. between 1992 and 2015, three million bulgarians left their homeland, and for a country of seven million people, that's a huge number. among them are mainly engineers, it specialists, doctors, nurses and teachers. i think he should draw the appropriate conclusions. secondly, if we want to see any positive social and economic change, we have to change our mindset first. today, employers are not so much looking for college degrees. they need ambitious people with a wide range of horizontal skills such as teamwork, confidence, leadership and entrepreneurship. the truth is, we acquire all kinds of skills outside of the formal education system. in this respect, i share the commission's view that vocational education should be made more attractive. in conclusion, i would like to say that i will expect the european commission to take account of the recommendations made by parliament.
madam president, i would like to congratulate my colleagues, ms dlabajová and mr nekov, for their great work. our world is changing fast. education should be the means to empower children and adults alike to become active participants in the transformation of their societies. learning should focus on the values, attitudes and behaviours which enable individuals to live together in a world of technology, characterised by diversity and pluralism. but at the same time, it should develop the skills demanded by our moral, globalised and digital economy. the new skills agenda was highly needed in order to overcome the security issues existing in the eu. furthermore, we still need to make qualification systems in europe comparable, with a focus on qualification levels and learning outcomes. i welcome the support for modernisation on that and adult education. member states’ private and public companies and institutions should invest more resources.
the rapporteur. mr president, during the preparation of the report, we had many meetings with ms dlabayeva in the european parliament. i've had meetings at european and national level with employers who said that horizontal skills are very important, such as teamwork, creativity, critical thinking, creative thinking and so on. that's one way. the teachers, on the other hand, also said that they too had challenges with digital skills and had to overcome them. so we need to invest in teachers first, not just in building digital infrastructure. separately from all this, we need to restore the glamour of vocational education, because, at least in my country, vocational education is supposed to be for the children who are doing the worst. in this case, to overcome this very phenomenon, we need to focus on early career guidance. it means that from a very young age, children are brought into factories for different production, using new technologies, seeing how these new technologies are made, to acquire this desire and then enroll in vocational education. as mrs dlabayeva said, we are building the future now, but we really don't know in 10 or 20 years what the jobs of the future will be. from this perspective, we have to build not one system of education, we have to build personalities and put people at the center not just within the education system. we should strive for lifelong learning and lifelong knowledge acquisition, and make a very clear distinction between facts and between opinions.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because there is a clear need for more transparency, for more visibility and for more clarity in how decisions are taken in the institutions. the loss of confidence in the union, in its institutions, is precisely due to the impression of the citizens of the countries that are members of the european union that these institutions take their decisions in an opaque way and under pressure from lobby groups. and there is definitely lobbying. i can point to lobbying interests in the field of road transport, where a number of lobbying firms are pressing their own countries to draw up legislation which is detrimental to the states or rather to the entrepreneurs of eastern europe, lobbying amendments which are contrary to free movement, to free initiative. so the institutions need to be reformed, the lobbyists need to be put on a list, and it needs to be clear who makes the decisions, and who spends the taxpayers' money.
mr president, i am a strong supporter of the erasmus programme, which is why i voted in favour of this resolution. as you can imagine, working on this program was a real challenge for the colleagues. however, thanks to good cooperation and the efforts of everyone, we have managed to achieve a balanced and positive result which will have a more positive impact on education and training programmes across the european union. our aim was to focus mainly on the successes achieved by this programme, as well as on the future challenges it poses. with the final test, we will be able to achieve exactly that for our education and training programmes, especially for the younger generations, who will soon feel these positive effects.
mr president, of course i voted in favour of the report and i support its rapporteur, mrs necov, who is in the chamber. it is imperative that we not only focus on traditional training programmes but also support formal and informal programmes as well as lifelong learning programmes. this report on the new skills agenda rightly highlights a number of areas that require improvement and better cooperation between the member states of the european union and their educational institutions. two points i would like to make are the importance of vocational education and training and the timely implementation of the council's recommendations, increasingly urgent steps for further progress.
mr president, i thank all the colleagues who supported the report. i am naturally delighted that the new european skills programme has been adopted by a large majority. as rapporteur for the committee on culture and education, i would like to say that the original proposal of the european commission, although quite broad, has been considerably improved, especially as regards the missing social element. i believe that the objectives of the skills programme can only be achieved by applying a holistic approach to skills development, which places the learner at the centre of the process. similarly, access to education, training and skills development should be equal for all, including the most vulnerable members of society. in conclusion, i would like to say that improving the skills of european citizens will depend to a large extent on improving the skills of our teachers. it is therefore necessary to allocate a financial resource for their professional development and to implement measures to increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession. we must not forget that they are the pillars of the education system.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the issue of forest fire damage is undoubtedly very important, and i support the efforts of my colleague, but this will probably become a discussion in the next item. now, on to the point of the conversation we're having right now. there's no doubt, any issues related to funding, spending of funds should be very, very carefully investigated, because this is an extremely sensitive topic. but i would like to draw your attention to a question that is very often raised by the security services of the state of israel, namely the propaganda that is being carried out in the palestinian camps. because there is free access and there is an opportunity for radical islamists to conduct propaganda aimed at peaceful citizens and threatening the peace, health and life, both of the citizens of the state of israel and of other, european citizens. and this is also a very important question that needs to be asked and answered by the un agency.
mr. chairman, i congratulate my colleague caputo and those who have signed this petition. he's very much in place. not only is all of southern europe burning this year, one of the great bulgarian mountains, pirin, is also burning. there's millions of dollars of damage and it's going to rebound, as you know a forest can rebound in decades. many of my colleagues have spoken about the solidarity fund, but he will have to make up for the damage that has already been done. it is much cheaper and much more sensible to talk about what can and should be done to prevent fires of this magnitude. and here, mr caputo, it cannot be just fire spraying, it can be done anywhere, but in nature reserves, in national parks, in nature parks, such spraying cannot be done because of the legislation and the difficult terrain. and here, commissioner, i have some specific suggestions for you. firstly, it can and should be considered to purchase joint equipment from the member states, helicopters, planes, seaplanes, to cover together the large areas between the countries. second, volunteers from different countries should be trained and equipped to fight fires.
madam president, these days the national assembly of the republic of albania is considering a very important law, which is being adopted under pressure from the european parliament, namely the law on national minorities. it lists several such communities, but it lacks one historical community, which has been recognized by the albanian state since 1932, and that is the bulgarian community. this, of course, surprised us, because, as is well known, in this chamber, in last year's report on albania's progress towards the european union, the european parliament explicitly identified the bulgarian community among those in albania and urged the albanian government and the national assembly to take all necessary measures to safeguard the rights and legitimate interests of these citizens of the republic of bulgaria bulgarians of origin. i therefore appeal to the government of the republic of albania to respect european rules and norms and not to turn this extremely important bilateral issue into a field for speculation, which only pleases belgrade and other countries and harms our good and friendly relations.
madam president, mr juncker, mr barnier, colleagues, it is good that we are finally seeing some progress in the negotiations with the united kingdom on brexit. in her speech, mrs may expressed the uk's willingness to continue negotiations in a spirit of compromise. if we want to maintain our close relationship with the united kingdom after leaving the european union, we need to move as quickly as possible to establishing a direct agreement that will come into force after brexit. it will calm people, employers, the economy and markets. i believe that no one in europe wants to see a repeat of the economic shocks of recent years. they are inevitable if the european union does not reach a good, friendly and reasonable agreement with the united kingdom. let's stop talking about how britain should be punished. that attitude is unconstructive and i would say stupid. clearly the united kingdom has good will to solve the three important issues: citizens' rights, the irish question and the payment of debts under treaties with the european union. we can't expect that payment if there's no good deal. i want to call for rationality, reason, preserving good relations. britain must remain the european union's best ally after brexit.
madam speaker, a referendum in which a large part of british society was misled by one-sided and unproven claims by the votes of just over a million citizens has ushered in a period of uncertainty and political turmoil in britain. unfortunately, that's being carried over to the european union. nearly 5 million citizens will be directly affected by the uk's decision to leave the european union. we are talking about almost 3.6 million european citizens, of which 200,000 are bulgarian citizens in the uk and over 1.2 million are british citizens in the eu. i find it striking that, more than six months after the announcement of the united kingdom's withdrawal from the union, there is no progress on the rights of all these citizens. i think it is irresponsible for some british politicians to speculate that britain could leave the union without honouring financial commitments made years before the referendum. the uncertainty arising from the decision to leave should not be passed on to european producers and farmers. that's why i voted for this resolution.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report because eu—asean relations are comprehensive and cover a wide range of sectors, including trade and investment, development, economics and political affairs. i believe that this report comes at the right time, as this year we celebrate the 40th anniversary of our formal relations and the 50th anniversary of asean. asean is one of the world’s most dynamic and fastest growing regions and the potential for the eu to deepen its relations with the region should not be neglected. a good example is that the eu granted the philippines gsp+ status, and i think that we should advocate the launching of negotiations for a regional eu—asean fta. of course we have to address not only the successes, but also the challenges faced by the eu—asean relationship. the eu will continue to place human rights at the centre of its relations with third countries, and asean countries need to comply with human rights standards and promote gender equality and women’s empowerment.
mr president, it is absolutely right that the citizens of moldova want european integration. unfortunately, the political situation in moldova is getting very complicated and embarrassing. we are witnessing continuing confrontation and, indeed, political deadlock between pro-western and pro-eastern forces in the country. in this context, i urge all political leaders and parties in moldova to engage in constructive dialogue in order to ensure democracy, the rule of law and political stability there. i strongly believe that politicians in moldova should focus their efforts on important issues for the future of the country and implement crucial political and economic reforms in order to provide better living standards for all moldovans. the eu has the capacity to play the essential role of facilitator, on the one hand for political dialogue among the country’s political factions and, on the other, for the implementation of sorely needed reforms.
mr. chairman, i think there was a lot more emotion in that debate than there should have been. there is no crisis that can be solved in such an emotional way with shouting and cheap populism. i think it is important that the european commission, in cooperation and dialogue with ryanair, clarifies quickly the rights of the passengers concerned. it's unbelievable that in the times we live in, there are still people who don't know what their rights are. and here, the responsibility is ours. to deliver this information in an accessible way, in an accessible language, as people expect. i'm surprised to learn that it's common practice for airlines to notify passengers by email. for better or worse, there are people who still don't have email or don't use it as much. we owe it to each of them to be clear about what they can and when they can use. because the damage is far more than just a canceled flight: failed plans, hotel reservations, food, lodging, and so on. this crisis will pass. unfortunately, we can expect others like her to come along. it's an indicator that we have a problem to solve: to reform consumer protection and the clarification of their rights in the best possible way. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. let's say, mr. kramer, that you're right and there are cases where an airline has abused its rights and violated the rights of its passengers. so we've created a system and a procedure so people know where to complain and what they can get. otherwise, what? we're gonna shut down every airline that violates or violates a procedure? people need to know in every situation what they can do, how to claim their rights and, if someone has violated them, to pay a fair price for it.
mr president, mr president of the council, minister, colleagues, i would like to focus briefly on the three topics that the council will be discussing: digitalisation, migration, defence and foreign relations. digital technologies are the future if we want our continent to have a competitive european economy, and they must ensure better and more reliable content, cybersecurity and privacy, and the big topic of ehealth. but when the council is addressing the issue of migration, let's stop talking, let's take action. the return of migrants who are illegally present and have entered the european union is a priority. we have heard talk of reforms to the dublin agreement for years, but no action. enough hypocrisy about bulgaria and romania being admitted to the schengen area. i ask, or rather urge the minister, that this be also put on the agenda of the council. the feeling of many european citizens is that the european union, without distinguishing between its institutions, is ineffective. the council is called upon to change that. my call is for less talk and real action for more security. a more common commitment to defence and an effective foreign policy. as regards the situation in spain, we are in complete solidarity with our spanish friends. the constitution, the protection of the rule of law and, of course, the rights of all spanish citizens, come first.
mr president, after many years of absence from the agenda of the european council, security and defence are back, and with good reason. the citizens of the european union expect us to act together in order to provide external and internal security, both for citizens and for our member states. the european union is known as a soft power and this identity should be preserved and developed. this is unique for europe, but it is good too to have strength and to show the ability to protect ourselves. there are two major tools which we possess, or rather which are in development. the first is the permanent structured cooperation (pesco) initiative, and i would like to stress that it should be inclusive, because if we are to have a single shield we cannot allow cracks in it. the other is the european defence fund. i would like to stress that the intention to have more than eur 5 billion per year for this fund requires own resources for the european union. i think that if we act together we can respond to the expectations of our citizens.
madam president, i supported this resolution because i find the problem of child marriage to be extremely important and the search for a solution to it to be urgently delayed. this problem exists in my country, bulgaria, which makes me even more sympathetic to the positions expressed in this resolution. according to experts, early family and parenting life creates prerequisites for early school leaving, which quite naturally means that these children fail to acquire the skills they need for life and thus fall into the category of socially excluded people. in this respect, the world we live in is extremely dynamic, and the failure to learn these skills leads to these people falling into the category of people who suffer from poverty throughout their lives. especially when we're talking about the health issues that arise from early pregnancy.
madam president, i supported this resolution because i consider it very important to fight against this suppression of human rights, particularly children. but i want to say, and this is why i have chosen the explanatory vote, that i regret that the declaration itself adopted today is too soft in my view. i think we should have been tougher in our resolve. for example, paragraph 14, which deals with child marriage in the eu member states, only talks about the fact that we should properly monitor this phenomenon. i believe that we should develop a european initiative on the eu territory to eradicate child marriage in the eu. it's a form of criminal activity, basically. so i say yes, i support the resolution, but in future we should be even tougher, more decisive, at european level against this negative phenomenon.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is not only a challenge for us, but it is a boon for future generations. so i think we need to be responsible and take concrete steps to reduce the effects of global warming. i am particularly concerned that the southern part of europe, to which my country bulgaria belongs, will be affected by the more frequent climatic extremes. floods and droughts are just a few examples. there's going to be a rise in temperature. climate change will affect many sectors, one of which is agriculture, which provides us all with food. in this respect, agriculture and forestry can be the main recipients of greenhouse gases resulting from climate change. i supported this resolution in that respect. i believe that the 23rd bonn conference on climate change should build on what was agreed in marrakesh and paris.
in writing. i welcome the european commission's proposal to include the fiscal compact in the eu legal framework. its conclusion as an intergovernmental agreement at the height of the financial and economic crisis was necessary to overcome the lack of unanimity in the european council, but the community method must be preserved and not weakened. the european union has always been dynamic when it has adhered to this method of decision-making, and it has always been dragging its feet when decisions are based on intergovernmental agreements without the necessary transparency and scrutiny by the european parliament. the union must carry out its tasks within a single institutional framework and avoid creating new institutions outside that framework. the inclusion of the fiscal compact in the eu legal framework will ensure not only better democratic control over the rules of budgetary discipline but also greater legitimacy for the european institutions.
mr president, the budget, as the annual financial framework of revenues and spending, is of significant importance for the implementation of the eu’s policies. in this regard, the european court of auditors’ (eca) general conclusion that the revenue and payments for 2016 were legal and regular, with some exceptions for the payments, is good news. the estimated level of errors in the payments made from the eu budget for the last three years shows a clear trend of steady decrease from 4.4% to 3.1%. the bulk of the errors are concentrated within the areas of economic, social and territorial cohesion as well as in the competitiveness for growth and jobs. we should underline that, in the eca’s report, there is an early warning on a number of issues that we should be careful about. the challenges are mainly related to budgetary and financial management. delayed implementation of the programmes could create, at the end of the current programming period, a huge backlog of outstanding payments. we need a budget that provides more flexibility to respond to unforeseen events, such as financial problems, disasters and refugee crisis. we should continue our efforts towards a budget focused on results, in order to achieve maximum effectiveness of spending the eu’s financial resources.
mr president, mr president of the council, the commissioner, mr president of the court, for the first time since 1994, when the court issued its statement of assurance, it gave a qualified opinion on budgetary expenditure in 2016, rather than a negative opinion as it had done throughout the period. whatever we say, the basis for this opinion is the clear trend towards a decrease in the percentage of errors found by the court. in response to the urgent need for a results-oriented budget, the objectives and indicators of the budgetary framework need to be drastically reduced and optimised as the court has expressly recommended. we shall be awaiting commissioner oettinger's specific actions on this matter. it is high time that the commission followed the court's strong recommendation in a series of reports to present a comparative analysis of financial instruments and grants in terms of the final impact of their implementation on budget implementation. only on this basis would we be sure to choose the right instruments to successfully achieve the individual objectives to be set out in the multiannual financial framework after 2020.
mr president, first of all, i would like to congratulate the european court of auditors for making this step forward with the annual report. it is much more analytical – something which i appreciate. it is not just numbers and percentages, but it has very fruitful information for us. obviously, dropping the percent of error rate is something which we should celebrate and appreciate. by saying this, i am not saying that we can shift the focus from fraud prevention to something else, but we could have other priorities as well: for example, fully-fledged audit reform. what do i mean? first: single audit. let us prevent double checks by managing authority, certifying authority and audit authority by same beneficiary. why not introduce risk based audit as well? those beneficiaries with a proven track record and those who are object of audit of national authority should have lighter control, otherwise we make their life worse. another thing: we can have simplified audit as well, introducing more simplified approach and removing unnecessary requirements. after all, i think we are moving in the right direction, and i am sure cooperation between the court of auditors and the parliament will go in even greater perspective.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i support the creation of a european public prosecutor's office and i consider it urgent that institutional measures at european level be taken to effectively prosecute fraud and other crimes affecting the financial interests of taxpayers in the member states of the european union. bulgaria is one of the 20 eu member states willing to launch enhanced cooperation for the establishment of this service. i am pleased to see that in its recommendation the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs endorses this council decision. the protection and prosecution of offences against the budget of the european union and the financial interests of the european union shall be the exclusive competence of the member states. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, in particular by ensuring that the union's financial interests are protected. the misuse of european union funds should be a crime to be prosecuted with the creation of the new office. i would be extremely happy and pleased if this happens during the forthcoming bulgarian presidency.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the treaty of lisbon provides for the european union to establish a european public prosecutor's office. unfortunately, for years, the negotiations on this new structure have been stalled, but i am glad that a solution has finally been found and we will approve the creation of the european public prosecutor's office. the crimes do not recognize borders, whether national or european. for more than 20 years, we have tried to improve cooperation and the exchange of information between the different member states by various means, and that is why we have created eurojust, for example. but when it comes to fraud involving european funds, that is not enough. getting evidence from overseas is slow and it slows down the investigation. cooperation procedures also do not always produce the desired results and do not reflect the reality of open borders. our economies and taxpayers deserve better protection for the money they spend on the european project. every year, at least €50 billion of vat is lost due to various cross-border crimes, including with european funds. the european funds should help to stimulate growth, create jobs, increase cohesion between the different member states, and not benefit criminals. i believe the new office will improve the investigation and cooperation of these crimes. it will be strong, independent, with the tools it needs to investigate. it will cooperate with member states in investigating a range of crimes involving european funds, fraud, corruption, money laundering. it will improve cooperation and information sharing. at the same time, it will ensure a high level of respect for procedural rights in the european union. to be able to carry out this task, the prosecution will need some of the best prosecutors, effective internal rules and an adequate budget. all this will be agreed during the bulgarian presidency of the council and i hope for constructive action from the member states. for my country bulgaria, one of the earliest supporters of the prosecution service, it is an honour to ensure that the european public prosecutor's office will be fully operational in 2020. i believe that this is also a priority for the other member states participating in this new structure.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, there is currently a lack of safe parking areas in europe across most of the european union. parking and rest areas must be provided with appropriate safety technology for both drivers and the cargo itself. they should cover both the main road arteries in europe and the key road nodes in each individual member state. this need is further reinforced by the recent proposed changes envisaged by some member states, which introduce mandatory rest requirements for drivers, subject to certain health conditions. this would basically mean that each driver would have to leave the cargo they were transporting and go to a hotel. something that is unthinkable in the daily life of a driver, at least because of the lack of safe and secure places where vehicles and cargo can be left. but this question is much more complex. it also concerns road safety and the reduction of road accidents and deaths caused by drivers falling asleep at the wheel. because the total number of deaths on european roads last year, for example, was 25,500, and according to a study in britain, about 40 percent of the accidents involving drivers who fell asleep at the wheel involved truck and lorry drivers. secondly, when discussing road safety, it is appropriate to address the issue of road density and traffic, and also to take into account the safety standards of the european vehicle fleet. we are all aware that the countries of central and eastern europe, especially, need additional help in the form of european funds to keep up with the construction of their road infrastructure. the lack of motorways, bypasses for lorries and their adjacent road infrastructure is an additional obstacle to solving this problem and removing barriers to the integrity of the single market. let us be clear: any delay, any obstacle to the movement of goods and services within the union is a direct loss to european businesses and competitiveness.
mr president, commissioner, i understand and share your concern for the safety of the drivers of the trucks and the cargo they transport. they are often the victims of raids by illegal immigrants who, in the most harmless of cases, use them for free transport to their desired destination. that is why i am very sceptical and strongly against the wish of lobbying interests in some member states to take driver breaks away from the lorries. it is a matter of public record that there are not enough hotels and secure parking spaces on the roads of europe for such holidays. examples are france and belgium. there are no guarded hotels, and drivers are forced to abandon their cars in violation of the rules. the charges on cargo lead to an increase in cargo insurance premiums and/or even a refusal by insurance companies to insure cargoes of trucks travelling certain routes. the insurance premium has gone up 200% over last year. i call on the commission to abandon these own wishes, which are embedded in the 'mobility' project, because there is nothing more important than the physical safety of truck drivers.
mr. president, i would like to the situation in eastern ukraine remains unstable, insecure and dangerous. the lack of political will to fully implement the minsk agreements is turning the conflict into a frozen one and in effect strengthening the divisive tendencies. unfortunately, in the face of the threat of military escalation, human rights are always systematically violated. this is also the case in eastern ukraine, where the rights of minorities are systematically trampled and discrimination against the tatar population is becoming a harsh reality. commissioner, all countries wielding power must adhere to international laws and norms and guarantee the fundamental human rights and freedoms of all citizens, regardless of their ethnic origin, gender and religion. the crimean tatars are an integral part of the population of crimea and their cultural and historical values should be respected.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because i support the creation of a european public prosecutor's office and share the need for institutional measures at the supranational european level to effectively prosecute fraud and other crimes affecting the financial interests of the member states of the european union. bulgaria is among the 20 member states that wish to enter into enhanced cooperation on the establishment of such a service. i am pleased to see that in its recommendation the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs endorses the council's decisions. the protection and prosecution of offences against the budget of the union and the financial interests of the union shall be the exclusive competence of the member states. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against trafficking in human beings, in particular through the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against trafficking in human beings, and the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against trafficking in human beings. i would be delighted if this could happen during the forthcoming bulgarian presidency.
mr president, i voted against this report because mrs bergeron has focused on improving living conditions, lack of care and medical care and the reintegration of prisoners, but very little attention has been paid to the problem of the growing phenomenon of the spread of radical and violent ideologies and terrorist radicalisation in many prisons in the member states of the european union. moreover, although the report explicitly states that prison conditions and prison management are the responsibility of the member states, in many respects it goes too far by calling on member states to adopt independent mechanisms for prison monitoring, to allocate adequate funds for prison renewal and modernisation and to promote alternatives for prisoners. that is why i voted against the report because of these shortcomings.
mr president, prison overcrowding and poor conditions of detention are clearly a reality in prisons in europe. my country, france, has been characterized by a general deterioration in its prison capacity over the course of successive governments. while it is essential to modernise and refurbish prisons, some of the solutions advocated in this report seem to me to be dangerous, notably the encouragement of non-custodial sentences or measures, which once again reflects the triumph of criminal laxity. in the face of islamist radicalism, the explosion of crime and terrorism, there is no justification for the development of sentences. it is regrettable that in this report the phenomenon of radicalisation is never associated with islamism. so how do you want to fight a problem without even naming it? i would remind you that radical islam took the lives of two young girls in marseille last sunday, precisely because society has forgotten that repeat offenders should be permanently incarcerated or expelled. that is why i voted against this report.
member of the commission. – madam president, i wish to thank all the members for their questions on the social economy. clearly, this is a key issue for all of us. first, the commission agrees with parliament on the importance of the social economy for europe. delivering on a more social and fair europe is a key priority for the commission. earlier this year we launched a reflection paper on europe’s social dimension and the pillar of social rights. this has started a process with citizens, social partners and the european institutions and governments to find responses to the challenges our societies and citizens face. these challenges require innovative social and economic models to deliver more growth and well—being in europe. the social economy is a core part of this move. it combines solidarity with innovative answers to societal challenges. it answers the growing demand among european entrepreneurs and consumers for a new way of doing business responsibly and sustainably. social economy is not another economy; it is part of the wider economy. it makes sense to invest in it, so we want to see the sector succeed. we have been working with you and other stakeholders to promote the growth of the sector. over the last years we have taken several measures and our 2011 social business initiative. we have encouraged member states to develop favourable conditions for the social economy and social enterprises to grow. for instance, the social economy and social enterprises are priorities of the european social fund. we also recognise that there is untapped potential and barriers which hamper the development of the sector in many countries, so we are continuing to develop and implement new measures. the expert group on social entrepreneurship issued some recommendations and we are taking forward a number of them such as increasing visibility, making funds more easily available or enforcing and reinforcing the legal environment. we have carefully analysed the different proposals presented in different eu political documents and intergovernmental declarations. as a result, we decided to launch a number of new actions to stimulate the development of the social economy. we announced these in our start—up and scale—up initiative last year. it would be important for any future initiative after 2018, such as a social business initiative ii, to be based on the evaluation of the situation after the current start-up and scale-up initiative has been fully implemented. our actions rest on five pillars: access to finance, access to markets, development of better framework conditions, new technologies and social innovation and the international dimension of social economic actors. we have made good progress but there are still a number of measures that we announced and that need to be implemented. we are currently working on finalising all this work so that the remaining measures will be implemented next year at the latest. given all this work, we think that it would be premature to launch an additional action plan for the social economy at this stage. we want to first deliver what we have promised and then let us see if more needs to be done. we are relying on the support of our informal task force on social economy and social enterprises, involving a number of commission services. honourable members, once again we fully agree with you on the importance of the social economy for europe. the commission adopted this week the public procurement package and it will help also to boost social economy and social enterprises. we will continue to work with all stakeholders to ensure that the voice of the social economy is heard across the whole of europe. we want to see more enterprises and more innovations change lives.
on behalf of the ecr group. commissioner, when you talk about european plans and the social economy, you should look at and discuss above all the enormous issue of the drastic difference in income and wages between eastern and western europe. this huge disparity is forcing many young people from eastern europe to leave their homelands and move west to seek their livelihood, and this has also created a huge demographic problem in these areas. this is where the commission comes in and this is what you should put in your plan - this is one of the most important things. he's the one to work for. the commission is obliged to sanction countries that introduce protectionist policies and impede the development of business. the commission is obliged to react when, for example, legislation is adopted in germany which is directed against eastern entrepreneurs. in france there is similar legislation, in belgium there is similar legislation, in italy there is similar legislation which prevents companies from the east from working in the common market and thus violates the very idea of a common market. it is the commission's duty to ensure that the four freedoms and the treaties are respected. this is perhaps the only important task the commission should pursue when we talk about the social economy. there are such protectionist measures in the transport sector, in the construction sector... president macron's false thesis of so-called social dumping is actually a disguised protectionism by a number of western companies. and that's your job and you have to deal with it. circumstances will force you to do so. it is the future of europe to talk about these issues.
i understand, mr tusk, and i sympathize very often with you, that you have a very difficult task of finding a compromise between parties with different desires, especially when we have a procedure for unanimous decision-making which blocks many good initiatives and makes the european union rather ineffective. it is only fair that those countries that want more integration in a certain area should have that opportunity to do so, and those that do not want to do so should not stop those countries that have the opportunity or want to move forward in a certain area. europe at different speeds, only when they are voluntary and any country that has met the relevant criteria can become part of the relevant integration step, whether it's schengen, the eurozone, the general prosecutor's office, whether it's a defence union, a banking union, just to name a few. bulgaria and romania should be allowed into the schengen area and that will increase our common security, not diminish it as some people say. i called not only here, but also the new government in the netherlands to take the appropriate step by water and by air, and in 2018 bulgaria and romania will be part of this space. a word about the eurozone. the same criteria should apply to the euro area. countries that meet the criteria are willing to enter the irm 2 mechanism and to do so. bulgaria is one such country. by the way, all countries except denmark and the united kingdom have made a political statement that they will join the eurozone. as far as defense is concerned, i'm here for much more serious, effective action on the common defense union. if in the 1950s this european defence community had happened, we would not be talking about it now and so slowly have the opportunity to pool our defence capabilities.
mr president, the youth guarantee has played a key role in combating youth unemployment at european level. in the european union, there is still 17.2% youth unemployment, and that is no small percentage. the european court of auditors report warns that it is currently difficult to give a realistic assessment of the results achieved, there are no monitoring systems and no mechanisms to follow up participants who leave the youth guarantee scheme. the same report found that the youth guarantee benefits mainly highly qualified young people at the expense of those with lower education and those who are disadvantaged. in bulgaria, the situation is similar. the data show that the measures so far have mainly targeted young people with secondary and higher education at the expense of the low-skilled who do not register at the labour offices. i believe that a realistic assessment should be based not only on quantitative indicators but also on qualitative ones. in order to have real added value, the youth guarantee must first and foremost be inclusive.
mr president, mr timmermans, mr juncker has repeatedly stated that young people are a top priority of his work. the commission should also be able to take into account the impact of the new rules on the internal market, in particular the new rules on the free movement of goods and services, the new rules on the free movement of persons, the new rules on the free movement of goods and the new rules on the free movement of services. what does that mean in practical terms? first, a proposal for a new youth strategy to address the real needs of europe's youth. although decreasing compared to 2014, youth unemployment remains unacceptably high to date. every young european should have the chance to pursue a career here in europe, not outside it. secondly, when it comes to professional realisation, we cannot fail to mention the digital skills gap, which is a serious obstacle. i will expect commissioner gabriel to focus not only on providing digital infrastructure, but above all on developing the digital skills of european citizens. assuming that 40% of europeans lack basic digital skills, who will this digital single market work for?
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on regional development. mr president, on behalf of the committee on regional development, i express its opinion as rapporteur on the 2018 budget. we stress the importance of cohesion policy as the main policy for public investment in the union, based on solidarity and contributing to growth and jobs. we stress the need to ensure an appropriate level of appropriations to cover cohesion policy payments in order to demonstrate the union's ability to meet its commitments and to strengthen confidence in it. we note the unacceptable delays in the implementation of the current programmes, which have so far undermined the effectiveness, and express concern about the low number of payment claims submitted for the 2014-2020 programmes. we call on the commission to continue to focus on the results of the implementation of the union budget and support all steps taken towards a results-based approach. we welcome the new financial package of 140 million set up to facilitate the implementation of the structural reform support programme.
mr president, in my view, this budget will be the biggest jewel of europe’s crown next year – not because it is one of the biggest ever proposed, but because it is reflecting european cities, european regions and european citizens’ needs – and i am underlining this: needs, not wishes! eur 2.5 trillion in 20 years are invested in european regions. no one has ever been even close to this, and it was the right thing to do. moreover, this institution has always been one of the most ambitious when it comes to the budget – the right thing to do. it was the right thing to do to ask to restore all cuts proposed by the council. it was the right thing to do even to increase the draft budget proposed by the commission, because a great step forward needs brave investment, not cuts.
mr president, thanks to the strong position of the european parliament and of the rapporteur, ms marita ulvsko, it was agreed to tighten restrictions on some of the most common carcinogens, to oblige the commission to report on the effects of substances that impair human reproductive capacity by the beginning of 2019 at the latest, and to introduce mandatory health surveillance of workers at risk, including after their work is completed. the result is much better prevention and the potential to save at least 100 000 additional lives, as well as health surveillance for over 20 million workers exposed to carcinogens. it is now the responsibility of the member states to implement these new requirements in a timely manner.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur and parliament for the continued support to the roma integration process. the 2011 resolution of the european parliament played a key role in the launching of the eu framework for national roma integration strategies up to 2020. today, i particularly want to thank soraya post for her relentless and tireless work in this field – not only in this report, but for the work you do in general. this report, as the rapporteur says, rightly highlights anti-gypsyism, which is being felt in our society through anti-roma hate speech, growing terms of segregation and forced evictions. anti-gypsyism and socioeconomic exclusion go hand in hand, so we must tackle these together. many parts of the report confirm the conclusions we also made in the mid-term review – improvements in education, this is key of course. fewer roma leave school early and more roma children participate today in early childhood education. however, segregation in education has persisted, and the situation has deteriorated. in several member states, the majority of roma children attend classes where most – or almost all – classmates are roma. educating roma children in segregated settings prevent them from equal chances to participate in later higher quality education and from gaining access to the labour market, and this is why the commission launched infringements: to ensure effective, equal access for roma to a quality, inclusive, mainstream education. i am also grateful that the report recognises existing efforts and calls for continued action from the commission’s side in several areas. for instance, it explicitly calls for the extension of the joint programme on access to justice for roma and traveller women, piloted since last year in five member states by the commission and the council of europe. the aim is to empower roma women, improve their access to justice and fight the multi—faceted discrimination that they encounter. these are all priority areas highlighted by the report. the report’s call for setting up a truth and reconciliation commission is welcome. these bodies, focusing on national histories and engaging directly with societies, are of course best placed at national level. this process should be roma-led, with the involvement of other stakeholders as well. thus, and given its mandate, the newly set—up european roma institute of arts and culture could be well positioned, rather than the commission playing a leading role in this process, and we are of course ready to support this. there are many very valuable proposals in this report. we would like to thank again the rapporteur and the committee for the work that you have done, and we look forward to the discussion.
my dear mrs. president. - ladies and gentlemen, i find the report extremely one-sided, unbalanced and misleading. member states are accused and criticised of different treatment, prejudice, deliberate denial of access to education, housing and, in general, the trampling of various kinds of rights. i do not agree with the suggestions made in the report, nor with the suggestion of a common approach and common brackets. i give a few examples that are absolutely incomprehensible to me: "discrimination in housing, forced eviction on racial grounds and the destruction of homes without giving an alternative". ladies and gentlemen, have you ever heard of private property? and how would you react if someone moved into your home? i guess in a different way. 40% of respondents have to climb over fences, cross highways or encounter stray dogs in their daily efforts to get water is anyone seriously saying that? this is completely frivolous. several hospitals in hungary, romania and bulgaria have segregated and substandard maternity wards. i'm saying this thing has to be proven. i heard that forced sterilization was done here. that's slander and a lie. ♪ forced surgery ♪ colleagues, this was written in the orwellian era, it is cultural marxism and unacceptable bolshevism.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years the european union has taken a number of measures to improve european security, in particular external border security and the fight against illegal migration. the new entry/exit system is just such a measure that will allow law enforcement authorities to automatically calculate the length of stay of third-country nationals in order to determine whether their authorised stay in the european union has been exceeded. for my country bulgaria as the guardian of one of the toughest external european borders this dossier is of great importance because it will inevitably help the work of the bulgarian border guard authorities. i consider it a great success that the new system will be effectively used on bulgarian territory, despite the country's lack of full membership in schengen. the inclusion of bulgaria in the geographical scope of the system, the introduction of a single calculation of authorised stays throughout the european union, not just in the schengen area, and the obtaining of passive access to the visa information system will contribute to enhancing the security of all european citizens. let us not forget, however, that secure external borders like bulgaria's mean more security inside europe. the new entry/exit system is also of particular importance in the context of the interconnectedness of european border guard systems and is of particular importance for the proper functioning of the schengen information system for the purpose of returning irregular migrants. in this context, i would like to call on you to support the agreement reached in the form agreed in the trilateral negotiations. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr diaz de mero, for his excellent work.
we are witnessing an unprecedented flow of migration from third countries to the european union. in 2015, more than 50 million people visited the eu. and while the growth in tourism is positive for our economies, according to frontex, there is an increase in illegal crossings of the eu's external borders, with more than 1.8 million of these occurring in 2015 alone. it is clear that this fact requires a strengthening of security at our external borders. the recording of biometric data provided for by the amendment of regulation (eu) 2016/399 in relation to the use of the ees is a step in the right direction. it would prevent illegal immigrants from throwing away their passports claiming to be refugees. also, the collection of biometric data would create an indisputable database of information on potential terrorists trying to enter the eu. i'd like to mention something else. the map of the european union is not complete until bulgaria and romania are part of schengen. we're already meeting all the conditions for entering the zone, and the fact that our illegal passage through bulgaria has been kept to a minimum is indisputable proof of that. we defend the eu's external borders with dignity and i think we deserve to be rewarded for our efforts.
mr president, yesterday mr timmermans presented the commission's work programme for 2018 under the theme 'an agenda for a stronger, more united and democratic europe'. i do not see how europe can become more united and democratic when programmes such as 'erasmus+', 'creative europe' and 'a europe for citizens' are chronically underfunded. 'erasmus+' is the most successful programme of the european union, however the agreed eur 50 million under the 2018-2020 budget in the revision of the multiannual financial framework does not appear in the 2018 draft budget. it seems that the political commitment to strategic investment in young people is just a buzzword. in addition, the funds for the new european solidarity corps are again coming mainly from the erasmus+ programme. i am convinced of the added value for young people of volunteering initiatives, but when mr juncker launches new initiatives i urge him to ensure that they do not come at the expense of the erasmus+ programme, which is already underfunded.
mr president, i supported this report because i believe that workers should be provided with normal and safe working conditions. this includes the protection of workers from risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens at work. cancer is the second most common cause of death in europe and the most common cause of work-related death. all cancers in this regard are preventable. the availability of an up-to-date and accurate legislative framework in the european union will contribute to better prevention of this type of work-related illness. the annual cost to member states is estimated at eur 334 billion. i find it unworthy of my colleagues from the centre-right political groups who considered the proposed standards and working conditions in the 'agriculture' sector to be too high and voted against a text in defence of those who are building european agriculture. the report adopted is a step in the right direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, illegal immigration is a threat. it is a threat to the rule of law, to the security of the member states of the european union. those who support illegal immigration, they commit crimes. illegal, illegal crossing of borders of any country anywhere in the world is a crime and that should be well known to the cultural marxists and bolsheviks on the other side of the room. moreover, they know it, but they pretend not to understand. when an ngo facilitates illegal immigration, facilitates illegal border crossing, it also commits a crime. and here comes the other question: where is the responsibility of the so-called leaders of the european states? the responsibility of mrs. merkel, who as a true populist first invited everyone, then reneged on her words. where is the responsibility of those who say that someone should force someone into their home? have any of our colleagues in the room today ever taken an illegal immigrant into their home? no, they're not. so this kind of talk is a lie and a hypocrisy, and it has to stop.
in writing. – unfortunately, recent reports from international organisations and ngos have stressed the unpleasant fact that african migrants who are trying to reach europe through the mediterranean are being sold like commodities by militants/smugglers in modern-day slave markets in libya. victims of human trafficking note that first their captors beat them and then force them to call their families and ask for a ransom. those who cannot pay their captors are reportedly killed, left to starve to death, forced to work or are sold as slaves for up to usd 500. many women and even children have been exposed to sexual exploitation. i strongly condemn people smuggling in the mediterranean. it is despicable and shameful for the eu to look on as humans are sold as a commodity just few hundred kilometres from the european shore. in this context, i believe that the fight against networks of migrant smugglers and human traffickers needs to be stepped up through a stronger focus on measures aimed at tackling these crimes, including cross-border cooperation between member states, institutional reforms and capacity building. in addition, the eu should facilitate its cooperation with its neighbours in order to address the priorities of the joint valetta action plan.
rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam malmström, new zealand and australia are our traditional partners and there is potential to find common growth crossroads. however, full liberalisation, even if implemented in a short time, would have a detrimental effect, especially on the agricultural sector in europe. i support the report on new zealand, that products such as sheepmeat, dairy products and i would add honey should be considered sensitive and that there should be a more specific approach to them, for example through quotas or transitional periods. the high european standards of animal welfare and european geographical indications must also find a place in the negotiations. i'm appealing to european manufacturers concerned about brexit and its effect. the existing import quotas for products traditionally sold on the uk market should now be revised and reduced reasonably on the basis of market presence, for example by almost 40% for sheepmeat. without change, there will be serious pressure on european manufacturers, and we cannot allow them to be the victims of the british decision to leave the eu.
madam president, mr commissioner, i would first like to point out that it is a remarkable practice for the commissioner for humanitarian aid to be responsible for transport matters and perhaps it is worthwhile for the european commission to review this practice in general. it is also noteworthy that after 2 years the european commission has managed to note the fact that the practice introduced by lufthansa should be investigated. did you know that other airlines outside the european union are also preparing to do this, as are some hotel chains? do you think there's a neutrality of information and of the reservation system? i'm telling you, there won't be. does the airline's behaviour improve competition? i'm telling you, it's not getting better. does this measure benefit small and medium-sized enterprises, small travel agencies? i'm telling you it's not. is it for the benefit of the consumers? i'm telling you it's not. is it in favour of the european digital single market? i'm telling you again, it's not. and i ask for your clear answer, as well as a clear statement from mrs. bulz.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs chrysogonus on her report. the adaptation of the legislation of the member states to the normal legal system of the union is a complex process which requires time. very often it causes a number of difficulties which cannot always be solved in the time-limits. on the other hand, the delay in transposing union law prevents individuals and businesses from benefiting from european standards, confusing the rules applied and having a negative impact on the functioning of the union's internal market. i welcome the rapporteur's view that the responsibility for the correct application of union law lies not only with the member states but also with the union institutions, which must respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. i support the rapporteur's view that involving national parliaments in the dialogue on the content of legislative annexes will promote more effective application of european union law. i do not agree, however, with his arguments on the migration procedure and the granting of asylum. finally, i would like to stress that the commission is the guardian of the treaties, but that does not give it the right to interfere in the internal affairs of the democratically elected governments of the member states.
mr president, the effective implementation of european union law is essential if citizens and businesses are to benefit from the policies we are developing. the proper application of the law ensures that individuals and companies can exercise their rights and obtain prompt and effective legal redress if those rights are infringed. if legislation is not implemented or applied properly, it will undermine citizens' trust in the european union. in 2015, mobility and transport, energy and the environment were the three policy areas where the highest number of potential infringements were identified. and the results of the reports show that the late and incorrect transposition of european directives continues to be a major problem in the application of european union law. it is also important to highlight the role that citizens and the european institutions play in ensuring that member states comply with european union law. the high number of infringement proceedings in 2015 shows that ensuring the timely and correct application of european union law in the member states remains a serious challenge. in order to facilitate the application of european union law by the member states, union legislation should be clear, understandable, consistent and precise, while taking into account the case-law of the court of justice of the european union which emphasises the need for the foreseeability and predictability of eu provisions. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr chrysogonus, on his excellent report.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs ferrara on her report and thank her for her excellent cooperation during the negotiations. the environmental liability directive entered into force in 2004 and its transposition in the member states was completed in 2010. it has been amended three times since then. the report again calls for a change in the scope and liability of damage to human health and the environment, including damage to air. the three previous amendments to the directive have not produced the necessary results. it is therefore particularly important that the necessary studies and impact assessments are carried out in the event of any future extension of the scope. this will create an effective common framework for preventing and repairing environmental damage at a reasonable cost to society. it is important to use financial guarantee instruments and for member states to take measures to accelerate the development of those instruments and markets, including financial mechanisms in the event of insolvency. this will ensure that the damage is covered even in the event of the insolvency of the economic operators. however, i do not think that the creation of a european environmental fund for the protection of the environment against industrial damage will help the 'polluter pays' principle enshrined in the directive to function better. in order to achieve better implementation of the directive, the european commission needs to adopt guidelines to help ensure its proper transposition into national legislation. strengthening the training of environmental responsibility professionals and lawyers will also contribute to better protecting the rights of those affected by environmental damage. only then can we provide our citizens with a safe and stable disaster management system based on risk sharing, enhanced responsibility and the polluter pays principle.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, first of all i would like to thank my colleague, mrs ferrara, for her efforts and work on this dossier. environmental protection is an investment in the future, and that's probably understood by everyone, and it's the highest expression of patriotism. the 'polluter pays' principle must be strongly promoted, because it is the only fair principle on which environmental protection can be based. the objective of the review of the implementation of the environmental liability directive is ambitious and i welcome it. however, there are specific texts calling for an extension of the scope, a change of definitions, harmonisation of the significant threshold for the whole of the european union, etc., which do not coincide with our political views of the european conservatives and reformists group. while we support the initiative to strengthen the legal framework to better protect the environment, i would like to stress that this should not be done to strengthen or tighten existing rules or provisions, but rather to improve their implementation. the creation of an excessive administrative burden usually leads to negative effects, such as undermining the balance and the natural functioning of the single market.
mr president, i voted against the report because there are points in it with which i cannot agree. economic growth is unevenly distributed across europe precisely because it cannot be applied in a uniform way to all member states. i cannot agree at all with the call for further joint efforts to improve the integration of migrants and people of migrant origin into the labour market. i think that first of all we have to solve the problems of our own countries. firstly, there is the enormous inequality between the countries of the western and eastern parts of the union. in this connection, what the commission should do is to punish countries which apply protectionist policies, such as germany, france, belgium and italy, because in the eastern countries there is high unemployment and young people are the future of europe. another theme is that a large number of migrants are not fleeing war, but economic migrants who came to europe for this purpose - access to the labour market.
mr president, i supported the report by mrs caspary on the proposed mandate for trade negotiations with australia, because the uk's departure from the european union would certainly be a loss for free trade, and as we know, free markets and free trade are the cornerstones on which the european union is founded. the negotiations must start as soon as possible and we must respect the union's competences in this area.
mr president, i supported this report by mrs caspary and voted for it for the same reasons as i supported the previous report, namely the report on the proposed mandate for trade negotiations with new zealand. my motives are similar, and the european union needs new markets, free trade is the cornerstone of the european union. the negotiations must start as soon as possible, we must stick to the competences that the union has in this area, because both new zealand and australia can and will be important economic partners, and in this way we show our support.
madam president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have no doubt that vaccines protect the population, especially in a time when there are no borders within the european union. however, member states should retain sovereignty over their vaccination schedules and the health of their citizens. the reason for this conversation is italy, where recently the mandatory vaccination of newborn children was introduced, in this case 6 vaccines in addition to the four that were mandatory, making a total of 10 mandatory vaccines. the legitimate goal of achieving the highest levels of vaccination is understandable, but it can be achieved in two ways, either through stricter policies or through what is called a combination of recommendation obligations policies. a 2016 study shows that countries with mandatory vaccination have not achieved much better coverage than comparable countries without a legal obligation. therefore, two questions arise: can the commission gather evidence on the difference in effectiveness between mandatory and optional vaccination policies in terms of levels, and how can the union coordinate actions to improve the effectiveness of vaccination policy and increase immunisation levels?
the rapporteur. dear mrs president, commissioner, the cohesion policy principles for the period 2014-2020 stress that the approach to promoting smart, sustainable and inclusive growth must reflect the role of urban agglomerations and of urban, rural and coastal areas and take account of the links between rural and urban areas in the european union. eurostat publishes european statistical information at regional level in a number of statistical areas in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1059/2003 establishing a common classification of territorial units for statistical purposes. this information is widely used in the context of the european union's regional policy. in recent years, eurostat has broadened the scope of published statistical information to include certain territorial typologies in order to meet the growing need for relevant information. the commission has defined these territorial typologies in cooperation with the organisation for economic cooperation and development and adopted a methodology for their establishment and maintenance, in particular for the degree of urbanisation, including the definition of urban agglomerations. however, this regulation does not yet cover territorial typologies and the present proposal under discussion today addresses this problem. the proposal would allow data to be aggregated on the basis of the typologies. for example, gross domestic product in rural and urban areas can be compared and employment can be measured by the level of urbanisation. the proposal aims to establish legal recognition of territorial typologies, including the definition of urban agglomerations, for the purposes of european statistics. the necessary for the calculation of the territorial typological and statistical coordinate grids based on the distribution and density of the population in the individual cells of the coordinate grid, which serve as the basis for the calculation of the territorial typologies, are also introduced. the role and names of local administrative units, lau level, are also explained. the proposal also contains provisions empowering the commission to adopt delegated acts adapting the nuts classification. the committee on regional development of the european parliament, taking into account the need to amend, detail and update the classification of territorial units for the purposes of collecting, aggregating and disseminating regional statistical information, adopted the proposed dossier by a simplified procedure, without any amendments by the commission. during the trilogue, technical improvements proposed by the council were adopted by the council, the parliament and the european commission. there are two preconditions that must be stressed when considering this dossier. the proposed changes and improvements to the typology do not prejudge the identification of specific areas for intervention of the european union policy. some of the proposed territorial typologies are already in use. the proposed system is more flexible and offers a network of nuts and lau combined types of regions and allows the collection, analysis and dissemination of statistics to differentiate between urban, rural, urban with additional areas, metropolitan, suburban. the establishment of statistical networks at european union level will allow for the harmonisation of data collection and analysis. in addition, certain terminologically sound definitions are introduced, such as 'urban centres', 'urbanised clusters', 'rural networks', 'urban areas', 'densely populated areas', 'cities and densely populated areas', 'cities and suburbs'. there is no impact on the budget of the european union and i, as rapporteur, propose that parliament adopt the commission's proposal.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs mikhailova on her diligent work on this report. when we talk about territorial typologies, i think we need even more detailed and detailed comparable information with which to know the exact level of development of each region, urban agglomeration, city or small settlement. this will help us to better fine-tune legislation and to choose the best policy for a given locality. i think you'll all agree with me that each region has its own specificities that require an individual approach. having said that, i believe that after 2020 cohesion policy funding should be scaled up to the nuts3 level. we must not allow small towns to be held hostage by large and developed towns nearby and therefore become inadmissible beneficiaries of operational programmes. moreover, we need to add more criteria to our approach to financing: the level of infrastructure development and the social index, not just gross domestic product. moreover, when an important transport corridor for the european union passes through a region, i believe that the main burden of financing should fall on the european union. we cannot rely on small towns to co-finance large projects on an equal footing with all other beneficiaries.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, thank you for your support. first of all, i would like to thank all those who have spoken today and the shadow rapporteurs in the regi committee, as well as the competence of the commission itself, which has supported the proposal with great responsibility and has committed itself to negotiating it. i would just like to emphasise that, in addition to collecting more, more precise, more relevant data, with this proposal we will build an integrated approach to the accumulation of data and its use in the preparation of european union policies. this integrated approach will allow us to integrate the different types of policies according to the territories in which they are developed, and thus increase the impact of european union investments. i hope that this apparently technical dossier will contribute to improving the overall european union cohesion policy and that its timely adoption will facilitate both the measures in the current programming period and the preparation for the period after 2020.
mr president, when talking about car safety there are a few elements which create this car safety. one is quality of roads, and because of that i believe the cohesion policy post-2020 should continue to invest in ensuring the key roads and key transport corridors of the european union are of good quality so as to prevent any accidents because of the quality of the road. another thing, at least for me, is odometer fraud, which puts at risk all passengers and drivers on the road, without even mentioning the almost eur 10 billion of damage to the economy and customers. moreover, there are a number of studies showing that almost one third of all second-hand vehicles sold on major european markets have manipulated odometers. i believe that a pilot project i proposed to the commission this june is one of the answers to fight that fraud. i think this could be an example of how a single pilot project, funded by the european union, could deliver a solution for such a problem, which has been a burden to people for decades.
mr president, for me, the demographic crisis is no less a disaster than all the natural disasters and economic crises we know. and if for natural disasters and economic crises the european union has created its own instruments, for the demographic crisis there are none. that's why i want to present to you an idea for a european initiative for depopulated regions. by this i mean: a package of measures that includes easier access to european funding, preferential conditions for applying for european projects, technical assistance on the ground so that these regions can build up administrative capacity and attract more and more investment. we must do everything possible with the cohesion policy at our disposal to create the conditions for people to return to their homes and to put their craft back in their hands. we can bring human capital back to the depopulated regions.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to inform you of the scandalous behaviour of the serbian authorities this saturday and sunday. they arrested doctors who went on a humanitarian mission to the western bulgarian outskirts, today in the territory of the republic of serbia. you can imagine the arrest of doctors, of medical staff who go to provide free humanitarian medical aid. let me remind you, the western bulgarian peripheries were illegally occupied in 1920 and since then there has been a policy of ethnic cleansing, of genocide. let me remind you that the republic of serbia is a candidate for membership of the european union. let me remind you that this country is playing a double game and a double standard and trying to weave two folds, play at two weddings. let me remind you that this is a mildly un-european behavior arrest of doctors who went to help a population that has no access to health care. ladies and gentlemen, i put this matter to your attention, i will put it to the chairman of the foreign affairs committee, to the rapporteur on serbia's progress, to the shadow rapporteurs. serbia must learn to respect european rules if it wants to be part of the european union. otherwise, he'll get a veto from us for sure.
in writing. – the paradise papers have shed light yet again on the magnitude of offshore empires. we must applaud those who uncovered these schemes, but also understand that the ball is in our court, and that the eu and its member states must take action. contrary to what many believe, tax havens are not a question of legality, but fairness. tax avoidance contributes to existing divisions in our societies, making the rich richer, whilst depriving those in need from the social safety net they deserve. it is unfair that while many economies in europe are still dominated by budget cuts, we are witnessing even more creative schemes for avoiding financial responsibility. there shouldn’t be one rule for the super—rich and another for loyal taxpayers. commissioner moscovici played a key role in stepping up the fight against corporate tax avoidance and progress has been made. parliament should now take the initiative by setting up a committee to address these new leaks. fair taxation is one of the fundamentals for the progressive functioning of our societies and if we are to have the ability to take on major challenges – unemployment, inequality and lack of cohesion – everyone should be paying their fair share.
mr president, migration, low birth rates and ageing populations are not new phenomena. what's new about this case is that the intensity is much higher. according to the national statistical institute in bulgaria, one out of every two who left the country is under the age of 39. young and educated people are choosing a one-way ticket to better realization and a better future in general. and our country is on the verge of becoming one of the hyper-aging societies in the world. i wonder when these statistics will finally startle the rulers in bulgaria to start working purposefully to deal with this problem. a targeted approach is also needed at european level. i believe that cohesion policy should play a key role in this process. in the post-2020 multiannual financial framework, i believe that a specific resource should be allocated to those european regions most seriously affected by demographic change.
in writing. – the world trade organisation regulates international trade. all major decisions are made by member governments, either by ministers who usually meet at least once every two year. the forthcoming 11th wto ministerial conference will be held in buenos aires (argentina). in this context, i call on the commission to be closely involved in the preparation of the wto ministerial conference. the eu, as a world’s leading trading power, should persuade wto member states to further develop e-commerce and turn digital opportunities into trade realities. wto member states should acknowledge the fact that internet connectivity offers business opportunities like never before by making trade easier, cheaper and accessible.
mr president, today ministers margot wallström and witold waszczykowski published a joint opinion entitled eu’s eastern partnership needs revival. in it they point out that, despite past successes, the eastern partnership (eap) needs a revival to remain relevant in the future and that it needs to be more focused on the needs of people and produce more concrete results. the other week we were in kyiv at the euronest parliamentary assembly and in our committee on employment and social affairs two burning issues came up. one is tuberculosis, the other is irregular and undeclared work. the data shows that the tuberculosis increase rate in all eastern partnership countries except armenia is above 100 cases per 100 000 inhabitants, while in the eu in general this rate is below 24. we also agreed that our next joint report will be on irregular and undeclared work, which is another scourge both in the eastern partnership countries and in the eu, so i very much believe that it is high time for the eastern partnership to come down to earth and face real people’s needs. and one last quote from the joint opinion. next year, poland and sweden will be represented at the un security council. they say: ‘we want to use this opportunity to promote conflict resolution and crisis management, especially in the eap region’. so let’s move beyond these geopolitical and reform—transformation mantras and try to use the union’s eastern partnership to a good purpose.
mr president, the forthcoming 5th eastern partnership summit will discuss the way forward in further strengthening cooperation between the partner countries and the eu. i believe it is time for the eu and the eastern partnership countries to achieve further progress in the four priority areas agreed in riga: strengthening institutions and good governance; mobility and people-to-people contact; economic development; and market opportunities – but also connectivity, energy, efficiency and climate change. in particular, i believe it is time for the eu and the partner countries to meet the high expectations of citizens in the eastern partnership countries by adopting and fully implementing reforms related to the judiciary, public administration and the fight against corruption and organised crime, on the basis of an adequate road-map with clearly defined objectives and deadlines. in addition, the eu has to focus on its support for civil society across the region, because in recent years this has come under increasing pressure.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, 100 years ago a terrible political and social experiment was launched, responsible for the mass deportation, murder and enslavement of millions of human beings. the communist dictatorship collapsed in '89, but communism was not condemned for its crimes, as it was after world war ii with national socialism and fascism, and the west of that time in the name of a peaceful transition swallowed cooperation with the former communists. today's younger generations not only don't know the truth about the repression that changed the destinies of millions of people, but they are trying to instill nostalgia for it. is there a difference between hitler's and stalin's camps? there is no such thing, except that stalin's wars were longer and killed more people. all totalitarian dictatorships must be equated as equally misanthropic, and so must their symbols. ignorance of our own history condemns us to repeat the mistakes of the past, allowing the old authoritarian practices to be reproduced. we must never allow such experiments again, and the best tool for that is education! our duty, ladies and gentlemen, is to keep the memory of what has happened and never repeat it again. in my country bulgaria alone, tens of thousands were killed after the soviet occupation. let us pay tribute to all victims of totalitarian regimes and never repeat it again.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the bolshevik revolution 100 years ago gave birth to a monstrous dictatorship in the former soviet union and the countries of eastern europe. this revolution is perhaps the greatest moral catastrophe in the history of mankind. the consequences of that event continue to demoralize our societies to this day. one of the first steps of the countries infected by this bolshevik virus was to destroy the local intelligentsia. all of us who have lived in a society created by this tragic social experiment know and remember what it was like to be deprived of our freedom, the right to speak our minds out loud. my home country, bulgaria, was one of the countries that suffered greatly from this evil. bulgarian communists carried out one of the most horrific attacks in the history of mankind: they blew up the church of st. sunday in sofia. if we want to be free, thinking, we must not forget the genesis of this evil. we must heal the wounds in the minds of the people with education, with intelligence, because the european union is a tool for solving problems without violence. it's the way to resist the evil that wants to re-emerge in our territory.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is no secret that lobbying and pressure are being exerted by specific companies in the member states to make the european union's proposal so one-sided and sometimes visibly detrimental to the interests of the parties and of the carriers and entrepreneurs of central and eastern europe. in recent years, a number of lobbying, protectionist laws have been passed in france, germany and italy, which protect local businesses and hinder the common market. and that's not right and it's against the treaties. in an effort to help these companies, the commission proposes things that could endanger the lives of drivers and all road users. for example, the weekly rest in a hotel, provided there is no parking in the member states, and these drivers have to choose between breaking the directive or protecting their cargo from attacks by migrants or organised crime groups. we put these drivers in an absurd situation, and then the argument to protect their social rights very much fades in the face of the real threat to the other road users. i call on the commission to listen to the member states' positions. it has to protect the contracts and work to ensure that all entrepreneurs from all member states can work in such a way that they have the same income and there is no such big difference in income between eastern and western and central europe.
mr president, it is disappointing that the european commission has failed to propose specific targets for zero-emission vehicles in this package. we are seeing concrete results from such a policy with specific targets in the field of energy efficiency, european emissions trading and renewable energy. it is good to have such quotas in the future so that we can have objectives both at community and member state level. it is also good to have incentives for public procurement of electric vehicles. for example, imagine that the companies that clean cities have more electric cars or trucks. in fact, there are already quite a few countries that are actively investing in their urban public transportation, like china. and we can give a good example from the european union like the netherlands, where they're investing, among other things, not just in electric mobility, but also in vehicles that are powered by hydrogen. it is also appropriate to encourage tax relief for electric mobility vehicles by reducing taxes on such electric mobility vehicles, by giving bonuses to buyers who buy such vehicles, and also, for example, by providing free parking spaces in cities.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am presenting this point on behalf of commissioner thyssen, who, as you know, is on her way to the social summit in gothenburg for the first time in 20 years. i welcome the fact that your report focuses on inequalities as this is an important topic that deserves our full attention. inequalities are not only dividing our societies, they are putting a brake on our competitiveness and economic growth. we therefore need economic growth that benefits all citizens while we still need to overcome the damage done by the economic crisis. in the annual growth survey, the commission asked the member states to redouble their efforts on investment, structural reforms and responsible fiscal policies, but with an increased focus on inclusive growth and social fairness. your report calls on the commission and the member states to address issues that generate inequalities – wage settings, social protection systems which includes minimum income, gender equality, enabling social services, childcare, support to children, old age income, health care and access to housing. this is why we presented the european pillar of social rights as a framework to also reduce inequalities and social risks. parliament has been actively involved in the process that led to the adoption of the pillar and finally, as i said, to its proclamation this friday by the three institutions at the social summit for fair jobs and growth in gothenburg. the commission acknowledges and thanks parliament for its crucial role throughout the process, but the pillar should not be only words. together with the pillar, we have already launched two social partner consultations. one is to collect views on the possible direction of an eu action to ensure that people in all forms of employment have adequate access to social protection and employment services. the second is on a possible revision of the written statement directive, which would increase the protection for the most precarious workers, including digital workers. we have also put forward an initiative to support work-life balance for parents and carers. we are looking forward to your report and we are hoping to get it through the legislative process as quickly as possible. the european semester will have a key role in implementing the pillar. combating inequalities has been and remains a priority of the european semester. several past country-specific recommendations have been addressed to member states on issues that are relevant to inequality. we intend to build on this approach in the coming cycle to ensure that progress on implementing the pillar is properly reflected and monitored. indeed, a new feature will be the use of the pillar’s social scoreboard to monitor developments in member states, looking across a wide spectrum of policy areas which will include inequality, poverty and social inclusion. finally, i particularly welcome the focus of the report on children. investing in children is key to breaking the cycle of inequality and disadvantage through generations. as regards the implementation of the current preparatory action on a child guarantee, our aim is to investigate the feasibility of such an initiative and its added value compared to ongoing actions at the moment. so as we speak, the recovery is ongoing, with improvements in the overall situation in the labour market in all member states. it is essential now to prevent the risk that, as the recovery continues in europe, some people are left behind. that is why your report and this debate are very timely.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the rapporteur has clearly stated that rising inequalities are today threatening the very future of the european project, eroding its legitimacy and damaging trust in the european union as an engine of social progress. before 2008, the eu made some big leaps forward in terms of economic integration, but the financial crisis after 2008 led to a significant decline in relative income levels in the european periphery, while core member states were generally more resilient. however, there is a broader backdrop to the whole issue of inequalities: namely, in general, in recent years, billionaires’ fortunes have grown by an average of 7-8% per year, while total wealth has grown at just 3% annually. globalisation, deregulation and declining taxes have all been factors, but the other important factor has been the rise of a far-flung, global, cross-border wealth-management industry – so-called – dedicated to avoiding taxation of the wealthiest. the richest 1% of the world’s population now owns more than half of global wealth and the top 10% owns about 90%, while data suggest that most of the gains at the top are coming at the expense of the rest of the population. what is more, the wealthy use the power that accompanies their money to exert political influence and reduce taxes and regulation. i would like to highlight three main lines of action among the many that the rapporteur has indicated in his report. first, enhanced social dialogue and collective bargaining for determining wages, recalling the fact that the right of collective bargaining and action is fundamental and that the decline in the bargaining power of workers and trade unions must be reversed. second, a call to the commission to put forward initiatives to remove any kind of gender pay gap, setting penalties for workplaces that violate the right to equality by establishing different wages for identical job categories. third, both the commission and member states must finally take real action against tax avoidance and tax fraud, as one of the key means of reducing drastic economic inequalities.
mrs. mcginnis, mr. hogan, the russian embargo can tell us two things. the first is that third countries use the agricultural sector in the european union, which makes us vulnerable, and the second is that disproportionate subsidies in the different member states, provided that competition within the european market is closed, lead to some member states being more competitive than other member states. after my meetings with producers of apples, peaches, and vegetables, such as potatoes in bulgaria, i am extremely worried, as they say they will cease their activities. commissioner, i appeal to you to do everything in your power in the future to use all possible instruments such as the crisis reserve and state subsidies to achieve justice. for a single crop in the european union, there should be a single ceiling for maximum support from the member states. for a strong european agriculture in the single market, the same rules should apply to producers.
madam president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the growing presence of the islamic state group in somalia could become a significant threat if it succeeds in attracting the jihadist fighters who will flee from the collapsing bastions in syria and iraq. according to the un report, the number of isis fighters in somalia has increased many times over. as we all know, for over a decade, there has been an islamist and very dangerous group in somalia, the al-shabaab, a terrorist organization that seeks to establish complete control over muslims in the three divided regions of the country and to impose sharia law. recently, president mohamed abdullahi mohamed has expressed the position that he has declared a state of war against the group "al-shabaab". we think that we as a community need to support somalia on its path to stability, because we saw what happened in north africa when the states there were broken up and opened up a pandora's box that was flooding europe with a wave of migrants and violence. we must help to stop terrorism in its infancy, so that we do not fall back into the situation where europe is a safety net and puts our countries and citizens at risk.
madam president, in recent years, the eu has shown its strong and longstanding commitment to supporting somalia and its people. the eu’s engagement in the country has intensified over the years, with the union remaining the largest donor in terms of both political engagement and financial and technical support and expertise. unfortunately, the ongoing conflicts and power struggles within somalia have destabilised the country’s political and security environment, leading to the rise of terrorism and large refugee movements both within the country and beyond its borders. in less than a year the terrorist group al-shabaab, the local branch of al-qa’ida, has conducted more than 20 attacks in mogadishu, leaving hundreds of people dead and more than a thousand injured. terrorist attacks weaken and reverse the gains made today. therefore, i call on the eu to use active diplomacy to encourage the international community to remain strongly engaged, through a process of state-building and security in somalia. the eu and the international community should improve political and security stability in the country, because terrorism is a common threat that must be tackled on the basis of full cooperation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted for the report because the european union and its member states and new zealand have a strong and good relationship, and also share many common goals on most global issues, such as democracy, the rule of law and human rights, and the fight against climate terrorism. they are also active supporters and participants in multilateral organizations such as the united nations and the world trade organization. relations between the two partner countries were strengthened in october 2016 with the signing of the partnership agreement between the european union and new zealand, which will provide a comprehensive and modern legal basis for relations between the two negotiating parties. the objective is to facilitate a more effective bilateral engagement by the union and its member states with new zealand by enhancing political dialogue, improving cooperation on economic and trade issues and many other areas of innovation, education, culture and migration. that's why i supported the resolution and the conclusion of the partnership agreement.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have supported the report by mrs ponga for a number of reasons. first of all, africa is one of europe's main economic partners in economic and trade terms, and not only that, but also in terms of the development of humanitarian aid. the strengthening of the political dialogue between the european union and africa is a precondition for the renewal of the strategic partnership in order to deliver benefits in the different areas of economic development, growth, job creation, migration and security. to this end, the development of the regional dimension of cooperation between the african continent and the european union would be essential. the report also highlights and calls for a strategy on the overarching issue of mobility and migration that contributes to the development of both africa and the union. this is a very important element in view of the continuing migration flow from north and central africa. such a strategy is clearly needed, and europe must focus its efforts on stabilising these countries to prevent the migration crisis from deepening.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against this report because, despite some of the positive proposals contained in it, it does not take account of one of the main differences for the european union - that is, the difference in income between the so-called 'old europe', or the western part of the european union, and central and eastern europe, or the newly joined members. this huge difference in income and wages is motivating many young people from eastern europe to leave their homelands and move west, thus triggering a demographic crisis in their countries. and this large income gap is largely due to the protectionist measures that some governments in this part of europe are taking and implementing. protectionist measures aimed at preventing entry into the labour market, preventing entrepreneurs from working, earning their money, being able to pay good wages in eastern europe and young people staying at home rather than travelling somewhere in the west. that's why i voted against it.
madam president, social inequalities have become even more pronounced since the severe economic crisis of the last decade. the gap between the rich and the poor has widened not only within member states but also between them. the direct victims were young people and low-skilled workers. we can't afford to let the next generation of young people live worse than we did. poverty and lack of opportunities for professional development drove more than 16,000 young and educated bulgarians from bulgaria in 2016 alone. now we're talking about depopulating certain areas. at this rate, we're talking about the depopulation of all of eastern europe. this new reality also implies a new approach to the problem. the stagnation of cohesion policy at european level will not stop east-west migration. i'm not sure that prioritizing investments in infrastructure projects will make bulgarians abroad return to their homeland.
member of the commission. – mr president, i am taking this point on behalf of commissioner bieńkowska. i would like to thank the honourable member for the question on the 2018 eu—china tourism year and its relationship with the european year of cultural heritage. as you know, these two initiatives are very important for the commission. we decided to have the tourism year with china in 2018 following the 2016 us—china year and the 2017 australia—china year, and the reason is clear. these countries are our immediate competitors in this particular region, and in the tourism sector in particular. we needed to match their efforts to attract chinese travellers. the tourism year is also a unique opportunity to restore the image of the european union as a tourism destination in the face of growing global competition from other markets. the two years are pursuing different, but complementary, policy objectives. the main objective of the european year of cultural heritage is the promotion and preservation of europe’s cultural heritage and the values it embodies. the main objective of the eu-china tourism year is jobs and growth. the eu-china tourism year aims to attract more of the most desirable chinese travellers. i am talking about those with high revenues, travelling off—season, not only to famous, but also to lesser—known, places. overall, both years contribute to developing sustainable cultural tourism. they make us consider how to preserve our heritage and help us find ways to finance its preservation in a sustainable manner. managing the two initiatives in parallel will not be a problem. the commission services are coordinating our efforts to make sure that everything will go according to schedule. in addition, right from the start we have been working together intensively within the commission, and i would like to give you one example. under the european year of cultural heritage, unesco was asked to develop four thematic itineraries between lesser—known world heritage sites in the european union in order to attract tourists in a sustainable way, but it was also asked to conceive them for chinese travellers especially and to promote them in china under the logo of the eu—china tourism year. the two initiatives have dedicated budgets and will be advertised through separate means, targeting different audiences. this budget is eur 4.3 million, not eur 8 million. in the case of the eu—china tourism year, we have mainly targeted the eu travel and tourism industry. we will use business-to-business events to point to opportunities and ways to be more china-ready. in china, we are targeting a wider audience in addition to chinese tour operators, thanks to events attracting the attention of the chinese mass media. the 2018 european year of cultural heritage targets the wider european public with a specific focus on young people between 15 and 25 years old. so the two years are pursuing different policy goals and targeting different groups, but there are complementarities and synergies on which we can build and we are making sure that these synergies are exploited. i want to assure the member that this is the way in which we are proceeding and to inform the house that commissioner navracsics, the relevant commissioner, has been in china in the past few days, making sure that the issues that are rightly addressed by the member are being addressed and that complementarity is being achieved.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the question we are now discussing should be answered as follows: the two initiatives should not be opposed or clashed in any way. is there any interest from the european year of culture? yes, of course. is there any interest in tourism in the european union from citizens of the people's republic of china? yes, of course. but when we start to ask the question of the internal order in china, let's not be hypocritical then and ask: do european countries trade with, say, saudi arabia? are human rights being violated in saudi arabia? i'm saying it is. just to remind the author of this question and the other colleagues that in saudi arabia, public executions are carried out in the square with the sword. they're cutting people's heads off. but companies from european union countries sell and trade with saudi arabia. what is this, hypocrisy, double standards? how exactly do we determine which country is bad, which is not bad, and where do we put the human rights label? and after all, there is an international legal order. there are a number of countries that form the international legal order. among them are china, among them are saudi arabia, turkey. do we trade with turkey? we're having a bargain. is there a human rights violation in turkey? yes, there is. do the other guys defend them? they're protecting them. so, where's the middle section? and where do we determine which country is the worst violator of human rights and which is not? i'm saying that we have an interest in the representation of european countries in china. there's interest from chinese tourists in european countries. moreover, there is an interest in developing trade. because trade, tourism, the economy is prosperity and it provides opportunities for greater development, a better standard of living, prosperity and profits. and so i think this room is not a place where we have to measure with different arches where human rights are most violated.
in writing. the eu's main task is to respond adequately to the challenges facing our european societies. we are in a complex geopolitical environment and it is our responsibility to take the right measures and decisions to ensure a good future. the european union has proven itself to be competitive when it invests in science, infrastructure, education and small and medium-sized enterprises. so in the new year, the money allocated to the horizon 2020, cosme, efsi, erasmus+ and many other programmes that have proven successful will be good investments that will create huge added value for europe. economic growth of a community cannot be possible when there are security problems. the increase in the budget for external policy in the areas of migration, the fight against terrorism and organised crime is therefore the right decision to take. people's needs and concerns are many and range from managing migration and protecting our external borders to realizing the labour market and access to quality education for our children. i believe that the 2018 budget fully meets the expectations of europe's citizens and proves that the eu is listening to its citizens.
madam president, yesterday the european parliament showed its clear ambition in the field of the energy package, namely by voting for targets of 40% for energy efficiency and 35% for renewable energy sources. but my question is, apart from setting high targets in these areas, are we not lagging behind in another extremely important area, namely the area of interconnectedness. we know that we have a target of 10%, which a number of important countries for the european union, like the united kingdom, poland and spain, will not even be able to meet, and now we are talking about a new target of 15%. the question is simple: can there be revolution or even evolution without better interconnectedness? and after we've heard the statement "america first" or "energy efficiency first" or "renewable energy first", isn't it time we heard the statement "better connectivity and smart grids first"?
madam president, the situation in yemen is complex enough, and the resolution that was voted here not only fails to examine all aspects of this situation - on the contrary, it is also quite one-sided. it lacks commentary on radical islam in its salafi, sunni and shiite forms. there are enough forces in the area that are involved in these battles. besides saudi arabia, there's iran, there's egypt, there's of course turkey. we've witnessed a number of meetings in the last few days that are fundamentally changing the balance in this part of the world. so a resolution like this, if we want it to have any effect, must examine all these issues, condemn categorically the salafist terrorism that has been exported from this region to europe, and put these issues first. that's why i voted "abstention". thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me first thank the european parliament, the committee on international trade and rapporteur ms schaake for the report. the commission considers your report an important contribution to the discussion on responses to the challenges brought by the digital revolution that we are witnessing all around us. modern trade is increasingly enabled by digital technologies. digital trade is therefore a priority for a variety of european industries. the global e—commerce market is now estimated to be worth over eur two trillion and continues to grow at a fast pace. the eu is the world’s largest exporter of services and is therefore in a strong position to benefit from the opportunities of digital trade. this highlights even more the role the eu should take in shaping the global rules on digital trade. the commission, in the trade for all communication, stated that the facilitation of digital trade constitutes an important part of eu trade strategy. this should be achieved within a trade and investment policy that is consistent with broader european values. our digital trade strategy should ensure market access for european companies. it should at the same time ensure and deliver benefits from eu consumers who stand to benefit from a broader choice of products and lower prices, and always respect and fully safeguard the fundamental rights enshrined in the eu charter. many of the proposals made in the report concern issues that we already pursue in trade negotiations and that were tabled in the recent negotiations with mexico and indonesia. the agreement with japan can also serve as a good example of the eu’s current approach on digital trade. just to mention a few concrete examples: we included ambitious rules prohibiting mandatory source code disclosure, consumer trust enhancing rules such as disciplines on consumer protection, electronic trust services, electronic contracts and unsolicited communications such as spam. however, there are areas which will require further work. this will give us an opportunity to follow up, with you, in detail on other issues raised in the report. as regards data protection, the commission made clear in its communication on exchanging and protecting personal data in a globalised world that protecting personal data goes hand in hand with the promotion of free flows of data. the general data protection regulation equips the eu with numerous tools to facilitate data flows, while ensuring that when the personal data of europeans are transferred abroad the protection travels along with the data. this includes adequacy decisions, but also contractual arrangements. we certainly take good note of the european parliament’s position on the issue of data flows. we also took note of the european council conclusions of october that highlighted the importance of ensuring adequate rules on data flows with third countries in trade agreements without prejudice to eu legislation. within the commission, a dedicated project team on data flows was set up in january. the commission’s objective is to develop a proposal on how the eu should facilitate trade and tackle protectionist practices abroad, while ensuring that there is no possibility to use trade agreements to challenge existing and future eu legislation on personal data and privacy. i can assure you that when it comes to privacy and personal data in trade agreements, the position of the commission is crystal clear. personal data protection is a fundamental right enshrined in article 8 of the eu charter of fundamental rights. therefore, trade agreements are not the place to set standards for, or to negotiate on, data protection rules. let me assure you that your observations and recommendations will be taken into consideration by the commission so as to develop, in cooperation with the european parliament, a digital trade strategy for the european union.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to a provocation that has been made once again by the prime minister of the republic of turkey, mr. erdogan. he has made territorial claims once again over the muslim population of thrace. this is extremely presumptuous, extremely unacceptable, extremely arrogant, because this man has once again taken the liberty of demanding a redrawing of the borders of the balkans. we all know, especially you, mr president, what it means to ask for the borders of the balkans to be redrawn. this is too dangerous and too wrong. mr. erdogan has allowed and is allowing provocations against the sovereignty of our countries and our borders. we cannot allow this, especially when he is doing so in collusion with external forces which are harmful and which are against the interest of the european union in the balkans. we must resist.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i rise before you today with a certain solemnity, because we are concluding a cycle together. this cycle - this political sequence - began very early in your term and also in mine, which was marked by an almost uninterrupted succession of disastrous financial scandals. this european parliament has always been in contact with the taxe 1, taxe 2 and, today, pana committees. i would of course like to extend my sincere congratulations to the two rapporteurs, mr kofod and mr ježek, to the committee of inquiry, its chairman, mr langen, and to all those who contributed to the report we are discussing this morning. if the work of the pana committee is successful today, i sincerely hope that the momentum it has generated will continue. i know that your parliament wishes to continue its work on this. it will do so with the full support of the commission and with mine in particular. the work on tax fraud and evasion is not yet finished, and i would go even further: it is never finished and will never be finished. the imagination of fraudsters and their ability to invent new mechanisms is endless, and so the fight must also be endless and relentless. other scandals may come, and i would even say, alas, no doubt, for human nature is made that way, as is the greed of some. this will require a new and determined response from our institutions, the commission and parliament in particular. the real progress we have made in recent years must be put into practice, and we still greatly need the political impetus from this house to bring the many proposals on the table to fruition. in short, if this cycle ends this morning, the political momentum, that of the priority to fight against tax fraud and evasion, tax optimisation and aggressive tax planning is not complete and must not be exhausted. it would be all the more regrettable if the european commission and parliament worked - as you know - in close collaboration, if not hand in hand, with the pana committee and its predecessors. two weeks ago i was in the pana committee myself to give an update on our progress after a long exchange with the econ committee on our tax agenda. what i can say, three years after the new commission came into being, is that this collaboration has borne fruit: we have already imposed a complete paradigm shift. we have moved in these years - and this is an international movement - from the culture of secrecy to that of transparency, from isolation to cooperation between administrations. this had never been done before. there is no need to be complacent, the fight is not over, but we have made a lot of progress and it would be absurd not to say so. we've been able to do all of this because of your support and because of our work together. i therefore hope that tomorrow we can continue along this path and even go deeper. it is parliament - like any parliament - which must decide how its work is to be organised and what form it will take. we are of course inspired by your proposals for further action, which reflect the leading role we want to play, and which i want to continue to play alongside you in the fight against tax evasion and avoidance. so i will start by going back to some of your proposals to show how our agendas and priorities are already converging, and then also how we can go further. i will briefly classify them into two sets: actions aimed at making the exchange of information between tax administrations the norm and those aimed at pushing transparency down to the smallest detail and into the most remote corners. as we all know, automatic exchange of information is crucial to prevent multinationals and certain taxpayers, who are generally wealthy, from trading between national tax codes. your report rightly points out that our system needs to be further strengthened in this area. major progress is already being made on the ground, with the widespread use of automatic information exchange. it started to apply to certain income categories in 2015. the first automatic exchange of financial account information took place at the end of september 2017 and the first automatic exchanges of tax information on the activities of multinational companies will take place in june 2018. when implementation fails, the commission does not hesitate and will not hesitate to intervene. for example, we have already opened 18 infringement procedures for failure to transpose the administrative cooperation directive: one for so-called dac 1, 13 for dac 2 and nine for dac 3. the same is true of the fourth anti-money laundering directive: we have already initiated infringement proceedings against 16 member states for failure to transpose it. of course, everyone has to do their part to ensure that the results are there at all stages: proposal, adoption and actual transposition on the ground. of course, this task is not finished. several projects are being opened and launched to further develop the automatic exchange of information. i have therefore put forward, less than 15 days ago, a proposal to develop cooperation and trust between european administrations in order to investigate vat fraud cases more effectively. you know that this vat fraud, particularly crossborder, is passive and that it represents a loss of 50 billion euros for our national budgets to the benefit of organised crime and probably also the financing of terrorism. the paradise papers have further highlighted the scale of this fraud in some luxury goods jurisdictions, such as yachts and private jets. i say to those who say to us that you do not put european countries on your list of tax havens that these are european practices that we must ban and fight. we must propose to strengthen the powers of what is called 'eurofisc', which is also cooperation between the tax and customs administration, their european partners, such as europol, olaf and the newly created european public prosecutor's office. i know that by doing this we are treading a little on the sovereignty of the tax administrations and that there will be resistance. however, if we do not move from a culture of each for himself to a culture of cooperation and transparency, also between administrations, then we are not doing our job. i therefore send a strong message to our member states and their tax administrations that this cooperation must take place. your report also mentions the cooperation between the financial intelligence units (fiu), which play a vital role. the commission published a report and recommendations in june identifying all the obstacles to such cooperation. we will actively support the work of the financial intelligence unit platform. we also plan to propose an initiative to improve the cross-border sharing of financial data. besides the automatic exchange of information, which - i repeat - is the mother of all reforms and the essence of all progress, even more transparency is now needed. the panama papers and, more importantly, the paradise papers, have highlighted the role of intermediaries in tax avoidance and tax optimisation schemes. your report notes a lack of transparency - and i was going to say almost by definition - about these aggressive optimisation schemes. we share that fully. we must shed light on these arrangements between friends which bind, in the greatest opacity, multinationals - not all multinationals - consultancy firms - not all consultancy firms - law firms - not all law firms - and banks - not all banks. i say this because i think we should avoid stigmatising professions. i can understand that they're offended, but at the same time, we have to separate the wheat from the chaff. those who do their jobs in strict compliance with the law and ethics and those who fail to do so. this is why the commission proposed in june that intermediaries systematically report to the tax authorities of their clients' countries optimisation schemes that meet certain characteristics - not all schemes, certain characteristics. these data will be accessible to all member states to further strengthen cooperation between administrations. i have said it before the pana committee and i say it again here in the plenary: i call for this fundamental proposal to be adopted by the member states within six months. let us not waste time, this must be done in full during this term. finally, the mandatory country-by-country public declaration, which we proposed last year, will also be a major step forward. i insist on the term 'public': i think that today, refusing transparency, advocating opacity is something totally archaic, which belongs to the past. these are old protective reflexes that don't correspond to anything today. opposing transparency and competitiveness is a poor alibi. yes, we must go to the public declaration and we must go quickly. forcing large companies to disclose the details of their activities in each country in which they operate, or rather asking them to do so, will allow everyone (citizens, journalists, parliamentarians, ngos) to exercise their right, which is a power of control. the latest scandals remind us of the fundamental role of transparency and public oversight in exposing fraudulent practices. i take this opportunity to really applaud the work of the media, the international consortium of investigative journalists, without whom we would not have made so much progress. while european cooperation in tax matters is absolutely necessary, it is certainly not sufficient. we know that multinationals or wealthy individuals use tax-fixing schemes on a global scale to evade taxes. in this respect, i would like to emphasise that the list of third countries at high risk of money laundering or terrorist financing is a fundamental tool. another fundamental list is the first list of tax havens, adopted by the member states last week. i want to be very frank here. this is progress: 17 countries were identified as failing good governance standards, but especially - because it is at least as important - 47 countries made very high level political commitments to reform their tax systems and to meet the criteria for good tax governance. this is a dynamic that must be welcomed. however, there are also some shortcomings or incompleteness. i ask the finance ministers to avoid any naiveté about the commitments of the 47 countries on what can be called the 'grey list', which must change their tax legislation as soon as possible. we must monitor this very closely and if it is not, we must black out the situation. i therefore want to make a formal and solemn appeal to the member states to follow up these lists. i call on them first to define deterrent national sanctions. we must do everything we can to keep up the pressure on the member states. the principle of 'name and shame' is a first step, but we must go further. it is therefore necessary to examine the immediate effects of the adoption of the list and its impact on the launch of the european fund for sustainable development, the european fund for strategic investments and, more broadly, on the financial regulation of the union. these matters must be settled quickly. this applies to european funds; this is also true of international financial institutions such as the eib or the ebrd. i also ask the member states, mr president, to ensure that these first steps are followed up within a tight and precise timetable. in three months we should be looking at the situation in the countries affected by the hurricanes. we have given them a deadline, then we have to look at it on a case-by-case basis. in six months' time, we must review all the commitments and make sure they are being kept. in a year's time, the list will have to be revised, removing those who have kept their promises - that is the aim - and adding those who have not. i know that on some benches - i understand them all the better as i share this - and beyond this house, some expected more from this list. i share these expectations, but i believe that we should take this list as what it is - a positive first step - and go further. i know that the question of our own member states is raised in passing. i repeat it here in parliament - i know it is not a big story in the media - but it is the truth: the situation of any country in the european union cannot be compared with this or that tax haven, that is to say, the systematic and systematic tax haven on our list. but there are practices in our member states that must be fought against, and to say that they are not tax havens does not mean that we should let these practices continue unchecked. no, when there is vat fraud or when there are suspicions of fraud in malta, the isle of man, when there are laws in the netherlands which appear to have already been condemned, i say 'speed up'. we must therefore be absolutely rigorous about this and not confuse practices to be combated or banned with belonging to a list. ladies and gentlemen, i did not have the ambition to cover all the recommendations in your report, it would have been even longer. it is very comprehensive, but i wanted to recall the main lines of the work we are doing to ensure more efficient and fairer taxation in the european union, in line with the expectations of our citizens and your recommendations. i also know that you, like me, know that to go further, we will also have to change the rules of the game and move from unanimity to qualified majority voting. all this is what your report says or suggests, and i thank you for it. i reiterate my readiness to continue to cooperate fully with your assembly in the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax optimisation. i know that in this fight the commission and parliament are once again going together. i know that this is a sine qua non for you and a support which is absolutely indispensable to me, and i want to thank you for this and once again pay tribute to the work of the rapporteurs and the committee.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs and thank all the colleagues with whom we have worked together for the work done. since the establishment of this special committee, seven fact-finding missions on money laundering and tax fraud have been carried out from february 2017 to september 2017. in addition, 29 ordinary meetings, 16 coordinators' meetings and a series of public hearings were held. all of this was within an extremely tight and rigid time frame. the pana reports have shown how important it is to have proper vigilance and surveillance systems. although there are still many problems, some more serious than others, i would like to welcome the efforts of member states who are actively working to combat illegal taxation and money laundering schemes. it's especially important to talk about tax havens and tax haven locations. it is important to remember that a great deal of effort is being made and that there is a need for both visible and significant progress. this is especially important in times like ours with countless new forms of threats to national security, citizens and so on. money laundering schemes are not only used for personal gain, but also, as we all know, to finance terrorist activities right next door. striking a balance between not holding back economic growth and preserving our security is no easy task. but we must do everything we can to protect the citizens of the eu member states. i believe that the broad discussions we have here on this stage will help to find good solutions and to maintain an open dialogue.
mr president, the measures we have adopted today under the 'omnibus' package have a real chance of giving a new impetus to european agriculture. producer organisations are still not attractive enough in some member states, like my own bulgaria. i hope that with the new relaxed rules, manufacturers will be able to pave the way towards sectoral unification. the more flexible rules for the implementation of the 'young farmer' measure will also help to engage more people in the 'agriculture' sector. as rapporteur for the beekeeping sector, i am very pleased that the apiary land planted with honeybees will now be able to be recognised as an ecological focus area. this is good news for the beekeeping industry in bulgaria and the european union. the measures i also supported include a stronger position for producers in the 'milk' sector. the treatment of them is unacceptable, especially sheep, goat and cattle breeders. raw material purchase agreements will provide more security and make the sector more stable and hence more attractive.
in writing. – undoubtedly, the reports on the libyan slave trade shocked the world. last year, i raised the question with the high representative / vice president about the situation in migrant detention centres in libya and the issue that libya has not ratified the 1951 refugee convention and has no domestic refugee law or asylum procedure. unfortunately, working long term solutions have not been found and we are seeing the results. not only as a member of the european parliament but as a human before all, i strongly believe that to watch a human being been sold as a commodity in the 21st century just few hundred kilometres from european shores is a despicable and shameful act. therefore we need, together with the african union, to demand from the libyan authorities a full investigation of the slave trade in that country, but we also have to work on an emergency plan to dismantle human trafficking networks. appropriate international protection of migrants in libya is the first step to ending modern day slavery and slavery markets in libya.
mr president, it is of the utmost importance to establish a stable relationship with the united kingdom quickly, now that it is no longer a member of the european union. this is in the interest of all european citizens, including bulgarians living in the uk. it is essential that an agreement on the future relationship is reached and that it enters into force smoothly on 30 march 2019. the inclusion of article 59 in the general report drawn up on 8 december, according to which the united kingdom will contribute to and participate in the implementation of the annual budgets of the european union for 2019 and 2020, is a positive sign. this gives european citizens, including european producers and farmers, the assurance that there will be no interruption or disruption to commitments and payments already made under this multiannual financial framework. without an agreement, a number of european manufacturing sectors will feel strong economic pressure, stemming both from international agreements with an import quota to the european union and from domestic overproduction and goods planned for the uk, for which they will have to seek new markets within the european union.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, let me first thank mr pittella for raising this debate and bringing it to the plenary of the european parliament; it is extremely important. as was already said, it is difficult to imagine the european union today without schengen. this is a very tangible expression of our solidarity and of the freedom and unity of european citizens, and it brings a lot of economic benefits – but not for all europeans. for six years now, bulgaria and romania have fulfilled the criteria for membership, and what is happening is a double standard and treating the two countries in a discriminatory way. it should be stopped, because it may look as though this is an issue only for bulgaria and romania, but it affects very fundamental issues and principles of the european union. first, it is about credibility if we as a union follow our own rules. we do not. second, the economic benefits will bring benefits to all citizens of the european union. thirdly, it is about security. instead of wasting money for internal controls, we should strengthen through resources and enough financing the external borders of the union. this is what is needed; this is what is effective. we often complain that anti-european forces, populists, are using arguments against the european union. this is one of the cases, because it shows injustice to too many european citizens, and now the european council has to do its job, which is not performed – an injustice has to be stopped. this should be a very clear message from the european parliament today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have been reminded for six years that bulgaria and romania have fulfilled the criteria for the schengen area. not letting us into schengen is a violation of european law. the arguments against it are purely political. then let the counterarguments be the same. paradoxically, the argument is that both sides are being monitored and are not establishing legality. and the answer is the same: "violation of the law". the paradox is that the 3 264 km of the union's borders are guarded without claims to bulgaria and romania, and they are denied access to schengen. it is a paradox to look for partners for the future and apply a different standard to bulgaria, which is a loyal partner with very good budgetary discipline and a lasting direction towards strong integration. paradoxically, despite the rejection, bulgarian citizens are among the biggest supporters of the union, but there is also a belief that the political arguments will give way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when bulgaria and romania joined the eu in 2007, the european union committed itself to accepting both countries as full schengen members when they were ready. they've been ready for a few years now. this has been confirmed by the governments of both countries as well as by the european parliament and the european commission. however, we have seen the decision to join bulgaria and romania to schengen being delayed repeatedly. objectively speaking, it is not fair to apply such double standards to bulgaria and romania. it's not fair to not acknowledge the efforts and achievements of both sides. it's not fair to ignore the fact that in the refugee crisis that we've had, bulgaria has been the best performer. bulgaria has long proven that it generates security and stability in a very troubled and complex region. bulgaria has proven itself to be a reliable external border of the european union. bulgaria has a heavy responsibility to protect our external border with turkey and it is doing an excellent job of it. bulgaria is not a threat to european security. the council should take a decision on the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area without delay. we must stand together and united against the threats of a united schengen area. the future of the european union depends on the degree to which the countries are united and show solidarity with each other. it is this solidarity that requires bulgaria and romania to be admitted to schengen immediately, and croatia when it fulfils the conditions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, madam minister pavlova, ladies and gentlemen, let us be honest: the reason bulgaria, romania and croatia are not in this area is purely political. the technical criteria have long been met, but three countries in the european union are taking account of their internal political problems, making concessions to parties that are, to put it mildly, anti-european and eurosceptic, and because of their internal problems they are preventing our countries from joining this space. i agree with mrs hussenova on this point too: this is a breach of european law, it is unfair and it is a double standard. i heard a colleague say that crime was the problem. colleagues, where is the district of molenbeek, known for having more illegal weapons than the entire belgian army, for being a centre of trafficking, of drugs, of violent trafficking of people, of women? well, it's not in bulgaria or romania. it is situated in the kingdom of belgium. where are the problems that are in holland? because these are the countries we're talking about. let's say it. the countries that are interfering are these, my dear colleagues. is that why we're talking about excluding these countries from schengen? i guess not. it is time to put an end to hypocrisy and double standards, ladies and gentlemen, and to respect european law. bulgaria and romania should be part of schengen, and croatia should be part of schengen, because we are guarding the external borders of the european union.
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ten years after bulgaria's accession to the european union, our country will assume the presidency of the council of the eu for the first time and will lead the union at an important moment for its development in terms of changes in migration policy and schengen. at the same time, however, bulgaria is not a full schengen member, although it fully applies the schengen acts, actively uses the schengen information system, has been granted passive access to the visa information system and is covered by the newly established entry/exit system. having fulfilled all the technical criteria for schengen entry - the only criteria for accession - bulgaria has proved itself to be a reliable partner in the protection of the european external border. it is time that the repeatedly received verbal acknowledgement be backed up by clear and decisive political action by our european partners. at a time of rising political populism, traditional parties, especially when they are in power, should exercise common sense and not succumb to populist tactics. european rules and laws should not be trampled on in the name of winning votes. it is neither a show of solidarity nor legally sustainable for the rules to be changed for one group or another. i therefore call on the member states to take a positive decision as soon as possible on the accession of bulgaria and romania to schengen. only then will they prove that their words are backed by real intentions within the rules they themselves wrote.
mr president, on 17 november the presidents of parliament, council and commission personally and solemnly proclaimed the european pillar of social rights. its articles state that delivering on the pillar is a shared political commitment and responsibility, while for the proclaimed principles and rights to be legally enforceable, they first require dedicated measures and legislation. it now seems, however, that the commission considers this to commit principally the member states. president juncker, in co-presenting the way forward on 28 november, stated that: ‘you can be sure that the european commission will continue to play a strong role in this endeavour’ [how?], ‘notably through the country—specific recommendations in the european semester process’. but this is woefully inadequate. the joint declaration on the eu’s 2018-19 legislative priorities just being adopted mentions only at the very end – and almost as an afterthought – that progress is also needed on social protection and social rights, referring to the 20 pillar principles. more, the social fairness package promised by the commission as a concrete follow—up on the pillar, has totally disappeared. this sort of delivery has shown the whole pillar exercise to be no more than a feeble excuse for further aggravating austerity, including by injecting the so-called fiscal pact into the treaties, thus in actual practice delivering another severe blow to social europe. do not deceive yourselves. the people will not fail to notice.
