the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i am grateful to you, mr president, and i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you on your new duties and to wish you a productive presidency of the european parliament, for the sake of the upgrading of this parliament and for the sake of all the peoples of europe. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. but to succeed, the obsession with continuing the disastrous neoliberal policies, the support for the stability pact and the deepening of economic and fiscal union must be stopped. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the public authorities. we welcome the objectives set for job creation, sustainable development and support for small and mediumsized enterprises. however, the goals set are still not producing tangible results, as they are being promoted in the context of neoliberal policies of harsh austerity that perpetuate crisis and recession, inflate public debt, increase unemployment by widening inequalities, and drive people into poverty. the maltese presidency has made the refugee problem a top priority. the objective of establishing a common asylum system and revising the dublin regulation and fair burden-sharing is a positive step. but that's not enough. the dublin treaty must be abolished altogether and a refugee policy developed on the basis of humanity and solidarity. the european union must also be able to take action to ensure that the eu's external relations are not compromised by the threat of a military coup, which is a threat to the security of europe. legal and safe routes must be established and a permanent and fair system of resettlement of refugees must be established. otherwise, refugees will continue to drown in the mediterranean and the european union will bear the responsibility. equally important, in the context of the neighbourhood policy which is being set as a priority, is to stop all support for and participation in foreign interventions and to develop initiatives to make the union a pillar of peace. in particular, to put pressure on israel to end the settlement, lift the occupation, and commit israel to a road map for peace and the creation of two states. finally, we expect the maltese presidency, in view of developments in the cyprus problem, to take initiatives so that the union can put pressure on turkey to respect the human rights of all cypriots, to lift the occupation, to withdraw the occupying troops from cyprus, and to show a constructive attitude towards a solution to the cyprus problem on the basis of a bi-zonal bi-communal federation for a cyprus without a guarantee of an army and divisive fences. i would like to take this opportunity to thank president juncker for his presence and contribution to the peace conference on cyprus in geneva; i hope and wish that this presence will become even more active because it is very important for all of us in cyprus.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the i would like to congratulate you, mr president, on your election as president of parliament. i would also like to congratulate the maltese presidency on taking up this task and to tell them that, although a small country, other small countries have also taken over the presidency of the european union and have made a very substantial contribution to proving, above all, that small countries can do it too. the second thing i would like to say is that i too would like to support mr maria's voice on the situation in the greek islands. the situation there is intolerable and the maltese presidency must work towards the well-known phrase 'carry the burden of others', that is, to ensure that refugees are distributed fairly among the member states and that some states are not prevented from taking on this burden. i'll close with this: it has been said that malta, being a supposed tax haven, is responsible for the loss of 14 billion euros. no one is in favour of tax havens, and neither am i, but what can malta do? open up a mine? to build car factories ? it's a rock. that's the kind of work he can do in finance.
s&d), in writing. the text devotes a large part of its content to the security of the eu, both at the internal and external borders. reference is also made to the international conference on cyprus, on 12 january 2017, aimed at a possible solution where the eu was represented by mr juncker who got a taste of how the erdogan regime perceives the cyprus solution. the turkish representative mocked the eu presence and attacked the president of the commission in an insulting manner. on the substance of the negotiations, turkey is asking for the right of military intervention and occupation troops in cyprus. the turkish authorities have thus conceived the security of an eu member state: turkey should guarantee the rule of law and the application of the basic rules of eu law in the republic of cyprus, which will continue to be an eu member state! in addition, turkey demands the free movement and settlement of turkish nationals in cyprus, and more. the european union has also expressed its concern at the recent events in cyprus, which have led to the death of a turkish citizen. a recent example of turkey's perceptions has been the methodical attack by turkish-controlled extremist elements and settlers in the occupied part of cyprus against the turkish cypriot teachers' union ktos, which promotes eu principles and cooperation within the republic of cyprus.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all, i am very grateful to those colleagues who have kept burundi high on the agenda of this house. burundi remains of great concern. since 2015 we have witnessed a sharp rise in political violence linked to the electoral process, which led to a contested third mandate for the president. we are confronted with widespread impunity, high levels of armed incidents, extra—judicial killings and abductions as well as cases of torture by the police and the intelligence service. government officials are reducing the political space, the freedom of the media and of association, and are publicly indulging in hate speech. there is no disarming of militias and no significant return of the more than 533 000 refugees who have fled the country. in sum: we are still a long way from addressing the causes of this crisis which are manifest in the corrosion of the political, security and governance environment. against this backdrop, the european union has suspended financial support to the burundian administration, including budget support. but let me take the opportunity to underline again that we maintain direct support to the population – supporting health, nutrition, agriculture, energy and humanitarian assistance in the region. as you know, this decision under article 96 of the cotonou agreement coincided with individual sanctions against persons undermining democracy or obstructing the search for a political solution, including by acts of violence, repression and inciting violence. those responsible for human rights violations and violence – regardless of their political persuasion – cannot escape personal responsibility for their actions. the position of the government appears to be hardening, including the decisions: to stop cooperating with the office of the un high commissioner for human rights; to withdraw from the rome statute of the international criminal court; to recall the burundian ambassador in brussels; and to impose additional restrictions on international ngos working in burundi as well as to withdraw the license of such important national ngos as the famous iteka which has been following the human rights situation for more than 20 years. there are further disturbing developments, such as the president’s announcement to possibly envisage even a fourth term in 2020, in as much as the indications are that the authorities are preparing for a change in the constitution, possibly including the abandoning of the arusha principles which have served the country so well in recent years. the confrontational stance of the government puts particular emphasis on african-led processes, and especially the dialogue facilitated by president mkapa on behalf of the eastern african community. in january in arusha we saw the resumption of this consultation process. crucial questions concerning an inclusive burundian dialogue have been raised – but it was not possible to bridge important gaps to major burundian opposition groups. there are additional consultations ongoing, including with the government, from 18 to 20 january. the european union remains fully committed to contribute solving the burundian crisis, through our bilateral cooperation, at regional level and in cooperation with the african union and the united nations. the next assessment of progress made in the article 96 context is due in spring 2017. at the same time, the commission services are planning for substantial direct support of the population, as we did in 2016. the burundian drama will stay with us for some time to come. we need principled and steadfast action in support of african-led mediation and possible new un initiatives.
the commission mr president, i too, on behalf of the people of cyprus, express my solidarity with the suffering people of italy. i will tell you about a man-made disaster that happened 43 years ago and still torments the people of cyprus. i am very sorry to have to speak before this house, but i must inform you that my office has been prevented from organizing a photo exhibition from occupied nicosia, from the ceasefire line called 'frozen nicosia', and the reason is that we are supposedly at a critical stage for the talks which will be affected by a photo exhibition inside the european parliament. i would point out to you, mr president, that firstly, we are not on the verge of an agreement; secondly, if an agreement is reached, it will not be compatible with the european acquis and will be rejected by the member states; and thirdly, erdogan's inflammatory statements are much more damaging to the talks than a report. i'm sorry, but this gives me the impression that we're accomplices in other situations.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it has been two years since the announcement of the creation of the energy union. in the meantime, all that has been done is to promote policies to serve the needs of the competitive market, to promote the interests of multinationals and to increase the powers of the commission at the expense of the sovereign rights of the states. no substantive action has been taken on the serious problems facing the union in terms of energy supply, energy insecurity and energy isolation in which the union's states and regions find themselves. the commission has not yet taken any action to deal with the energy poverty that is plaguing the people. as long as there are people in the union who are denied the right to equal and cheap access to energy, a public development good, this will mean that the energy union has failed. if we want to combat energy poverty, we must put an end to neoliberal austerity policies and, with a comprehensive plan, support in practice millions of our fellow citizens. if we are serious about our ambition to make the union a leader in the development of renewable energy sources, then priority must be given to their entry into the networks and a comprehensive proposal must be put forward to promote them. i should like to say that i welcome the statement made today in the commission's communication that the gas fields in the eastern mediterranean hold great promise for the supply of the union, but i must also stress that if the objective of promoting domestic energy sources is sincere, then we must also see the practical support for development efforts for the fields in the exclusive economic zone of cyprus.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, unfortunately, instead of having as its primary objective the protection of the environment and the enhancement of people's quality of life, the emissions trading system is in fact aimed at providing free allowances to large industries as an incentive to remain in the union. we will not therefore support the commercialisation of emissions which ultimately benefits the big multinationals in order to increase their profits, even though they are the main culprits of climate change. we will not support a system which, as has been shown, does not contribute in any way to reducing emissions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to support them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's steel industry is not left behind by the crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. we certainly support the policies on climate change adopted in the paris agreement and we believe that the european union can make the greatest possible contribution to this. at the same time, however, we consider it particularly important to have a balanced approach to the issue, so that the effort to reduce greenhouse gases and environmental burdens is accompanied by the protection of the secondary production sector, industry and small and mediumsized enterprises. the need to protect the competitiveness and viability of european enterprises and valuable jobs was therefore felt. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions. mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot ignore the fact that the social problems in the euro area are widening and perpetuating themselves, problems such as the continuing breakdown of the welfare state and the continuing historically high unemployment of young people. it is no longer a secret that we live in a europe of many speeds in which the social fabric is breaking down. the union's budgetary and economic policy is one-sided. it can no longer give absolute weight to economic size and completely ignore the social misery resulting from austerity policies which are weakening european citizens, dramatically increasing unemployment and the numbers of our fellow citizens who are on the verge of poverty. the question of the union's budgetary capacity is a very complex one, as was shown by the lack of consensus in both the committee on employment and the committees on budgetary and economic policy. this is because the structure and governance of the eurozone budget remains within the existing neoliberal frameworks of the stability pact, within the neoliberal frameworks of austerity and memoranda, whereas what is needed are policies of re-industrialisation and public investment, in order to support the real economy and create new decent, stable and secure jobs.
the commission mr president, as we celebrate 60 years of europe, we here in the parliament of the peoples must send one strong message: that the european union, despite the problems and difficulties, will continue to grow stronger and stronger to serve and support the prosperity, the future and the security of the peoples of europe. but at the same time we must fight with all our strength for a better europe, more human, more social, more efficient, with less bureaucracy, less problems, more growth, more jobs. we who come from small and weak countries joined the european union because we believe in these european ideals, principles and values. we therefore believe that the european union must defend its principles and values. it must defend european ideals, defend the security and prosperity of the peoples. we want and we are fighting for a europe which will really guarantee and defend its security and its borders from the eastern mediterranean to the north sea, which will defend its principles and its values.
mr president, i have been in the room for almost three hours, perhaps longer than anyone else and certainly longer than any of the commissioners. let me tell you that my party is not against europe. however, we support a better europe. there are millions of unemployed people out there and, if they have followed our discussion, they unfortunately now know that they will remain unemployed for longer. secondly, only a few in this room referred to the eurozone, which in my opinion is one of the root causes of the tragic situation we are facing today. i mean that its structure and the way it was created constitute one of the reasons for the problems so many people are trying to resist.
s & d) and the mr president, while the subject is again the evaluation of the greek programme, many analyses in the media, and here too, do not focus on economics or science but on elections, in germany, possibly in greece and elsewhere. moreover, the dispute between the imf and the european union threatens to prevent the positive evaluation for greece on 20 february and derail the entire programme. all of the above delay and accumulate costs for the greek economy and the eurozone. but is this the basis of economic science? of course you didn't. so despite the refugee flows, with greece defending europe's eastern borders at enormous cost, important economic indicators are finally in the green. there is a solution, and the solution lies in debt relief with all its positive consequences. this is based on science and european solidarity.
mr president, do we really believe that we are talking about greece? the issue in my opinion is much broader. it is a european problem based on the structure of the euro area. everybody admits that; still nobody takes the responsibility to say that clearly and nobody seems to have the stamina or the capacity to try at least to reform it. the discussion this morning on the future of europe proves to me that the unemployed will remain at the same status in years to come. talking for greece, and i end with that, the only solution is the radical debt haircut. there is no other solution.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, the situation in ukraine is at a crossroads. the united nations must intervene immediately in all directions, both inside and outside ukraine, so that a solution for the benefit of the common people can be found as soon as possible. it is not possible to continue the civil war and the support of extremist political forces by some people and at the same time the ukrainian people suffer. that is our duty. in addition, the destruction must be noted and the confiscation of communist party property, the arrest of its cadres, even the proposal to outlaw it, must be denounced. we have a duty as a european parliament to support pluralism, pluralism and the right to differ. we support the unity and integrity of ukraine and we are fighting for the extension of democracy in the country and for respect for the rights of all its legal residents.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the west bank is getting worse and worse and wishful thinking is not helping. we are required to speak clearly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the settlements are constantly expanding, undermining any peaceful efforts to achieve a two-state solution. the gross violations of the human rights of the palestinians by the settlers and the israeli occupation forces continue. the tolerance shown led to the unacceptable decision of the knesset to retroactively legalize 4,000 settler homes built illegally on palestinian property. this decision is contrary to international law and every human rights convention. it also torpedoes any efforts to bring about peace. at the same time, the israeli occupation forces continue their operations against the palestinian people, with the demolition of schools and homes, the imprisonment of children, the murders and persecutions. how do you expect to restart the peace talks if israel does not change its attitude first? the security council resolution 2334, which recognises the settlements in the occupied palestinian territories as illegal and calls for an immediate end to the settlement policy, is an important positive step. the paris international conference on the middle east also sent the message that israel must end its military occupation of palestine. enough of the talk, fellas. the european union must put immediate pressure on israel to end its settlement activity, to lift its occupation, to commit itself to a road map for peace and a two-state solution. the first step is to freeze the eu-israel association agreement immediately!
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, i have taken the floor only to express my deep dissatisfaction because i have heard colleagues, albeit a few, express their support for the settlements, for the illegal construction on palestinian land, colleagues who have said that there is no such thing, who have pretended that they do not see the occupation. my dear colleagues, would any of you accept what is happening in bethlehem happening in your city? a city of 170,000 people, with 17 settlements on palestinian land that are like a cancer in the city of 100,000 people. and what 's the most paradoxical: they don't even pay tolls, as bethlehemites, they have separate roads going to jerusalem or elsewhere to go to their businesses. is there anything more unacceptable that can happen to a people? i want to tell you that i don't believe that israel is working for a two-state solution. he works for a two-system state, unfortunately.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur. let me first of all welcome the steady progress albania has made in addressing the five key priorities of the opening of accession negotiations. these are positive signals, showing that albania is on the right path, and we encourage it to continue these efforts. let me also mention, in particular, the major step albania has taken with the pivotal constitutional amendments which opened the way to a comprehensive reform of the judicial system, as well as the continued efforts for reforming the public administration. moreover, we also welcome the adoption of the decriminalisation legislation, which should enhance citizens’ trust in their political representatives and public institutions. we now look forward to its effective implementation. however, significant challenges lie ahead and further efforts are still needed. in particular, it will now be essential to pursue the comprehensive and thorough reform of the justice system, including the court system. this implies carrying out the re-evaluation of all the members of the judiciary. efforts need to be intensified in the fight against corruption and organised crime, and it is important to achieve tangible and sustainable results in these two areas. i would also like to underline that further progress is key to consolidate achievements towards a more efficient, depoliticised and professional public administration. let me also reiterate the need for effective legislative and policy measures to reinforce the protection of human rights and anti-discrimination policies, including the equal treatment of all minorities and access to rights for persons belonging to them. albania also needs to implement property rights. the european council will consider the opening of accession negotiations once albania has met all the five key priorities, and this represents a strong incentive to move forward. a constructive and sustainable dialogue between the government and the opposition on eu-related reforms will be vital for the success of these endeavours. this will also be of particular relevance during the finalisation of its electoral reform, ahead of the next round of parliamentary elections, which are scheduled for june 2017. moreover, i would like to commend albania’s progress made in several aspects beyond these five key priorities. in particular, we welcome its generally constructive engagement in regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations, which remain an essential element of the enlargement process. in this respect, occasional actions and statements which negatively impact on good neighbourly relations are counterproductive and should be avoided. the council also commends albania for its full alignment with the eu’s common foreign and security policy. finally, we note the progress the country has made regarding its fight against radicalisation, extremism and terrorism, and we encourage further efforts in these fields.
member of the commission. – mr president, first i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr fleckenstein, for his work on drafting this text and his significant coordination efforts, and i would like to include in these thanks the shadow rapporteurs. the work finally resulted in a very balanced text. the resolution captures not only the progress that albania has made in the past year but also the challenges that lie ahead in order to move the country closer to the european union. i particularly welcome the emphasis that this resolution places on the reform of the justice system. the consensual adoption in july 2016 of constitutional amendments that paved the way for a deep and comprehensive judicial reform was a major step for albania on its eu path. the resolution is right to commend albania strongly for these efforts. similarly, the commission agrees with parliament’s assessment that full and timely implementation of this justice reform remains the utmost priority in albania. particularly relevant, of course, is the swift kick-off of the re-evaluation of judges and prosecutors, the so-called vetting process. the vetting process has now begun, with the establishment of the vetting bodies, and sustained commitment and focus in this area is necessary for albania to further advance in its eu accession process. the commission’s conditional recommendation on the opening of accession negotiations was clear in this regard. this judicial reform is a major demand from albanian citizens and its successful implementation will foster public trust in state institutions, enhance the credibility and effectiveness of the justice system and contribute to the entrenchment of the rule of law throughout the country. moreover, it will bring tangible benefits including economic stabilisation and an increase in foreign investments. beyond judicial reform, the resolution also provides a clear review of progress on other rule-of-law matters and key priorities for albania, in particular, on the fight against organised crime and corruption. albania needs to demonstrate further progress, with a view to establishing a solid track record of investigations, prosecutions and convictions in the fight against organised crime and corruption at all levels. high-level corruption needs to be tackled more effectively, and proactive and effective investigations need to be stepped up. the same goes for the challenge posed by organised crime. more results are needed in dismantling organised criminal networks that operate locally, regionally and globally. in this regard, let me assure you that the commission will be increasing its technical engagement with albania on rule-of-law matters. this enhanced engagement will help albania better address the challenges in this area. i would also would like to comment on the emphasis that the resolution attaches to a number of processes that fall outside the scope of the five key priorities but are nevertheless crucial to consolidating the credibility of the state and its institutions. for instance, as outlined in this resolution, albania urgently needs to finalise the reform of the electoral system. cross-party consensus is necessary to guarantee that outstanding osce/odihr recommendations are met. this includes, in particular, the transparency of party financing as well as the independence and professionalism of the electoral administration. since general elections will take place on 18 june 2017, the focus must now be kept on visible and targeted adjustments to the electoral code. lastly, we agree with parliament’s assessment that the implementation of the decriminalisation process has brought a number of results. that being said, it must also be applied rigorously in view of the upcoming general elections. the commission maintains its strong commitment to supporting albania’s efforts to advance further towards european integration, and looks forward to continuing fruitful cooperation with the european parliament in the months ahead.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, albania has made real progress in democratizing the country and in the dismantling of criminal elements by the administration. it must, however, make radical reforms in the area of justice and respect for human rights. it is obliged to proceed with the changes detailed in the report. the european union is also concerned about the situation in albania, which is a country with a long history of violence against women and children, and which has been the target of a number of attacks by the islamic state in the country. at the same time, albania is implementing a policy of ethnic cleansing of the greek minority, violating every notion of law in the minority areas, moving muslim populations to the southern regions of the country and thus altering the demographic composition of the population. respect for the rights of all minorities is a necessary condition for the democratization of the country and the progress of the accession process. the greek minority is being persecuted. minority areas are terrorized. the use of the greek language is banned, administrative changes are made to prevent minorities from electing local government bodies. the greek people are oppressed in the education of their children and the operation of minority schools and universities, in the exercise of their religious duties. the assets of the greeks are seized by the albanian state, allegedly for reasons of public interest and given to known criminal elements cooperating with the albanian state. the report calls for the immediate withdrawal of all military forces from the region, including the forces of the united nations, and for the immediate withdrawal of all military forces from the region. this is an unfair label for greece, which has long hosted albanian citizens, offering them work, shelter, education and all kinds of help, while, on the contrary, the albanian government is inciting redemptive tendencies and territorial claims against greece. recently there have been cases even in the greek army of soldiers of albanian origin, who are photographed making the greater albania sign, apparently instigated by tirana. we must not alienate the albanian people from the european union but tell them the truth and make their leaders understand that their tactics are not helping the europeanisation of the country. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european union has already made a major contribution to the development of the albanian economy, and the albanian people are not only the victims of the economic crisis, but also of the economic crisis. we support albania's accession process, as this is the demand of the majority of the albanian people, but we are opposed to the imposition of economic models which have been proven to have affected the peoples of europe so negatively, as well as to the demand for full alignment of albania's foreign policy with that of the european union. we have a duty as the european parliament to deepen our relations with albania and its people, to support the country in tackling the very serious problems it is facing, to support efforts to deepen, in particular, the rule of law, to combat corruption and organised crime. support is needed to address issues such as poverty, social inclusion, harmonious coexistence and the protection of minorities living in albania and to strengthen good neighbourly relations with all neighbouring states. (the president declared the request for an early vote to be rejected) )
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. madam president, as the european parliament we have a responsibility not to send the wrong messages which would create further problems in a complex and rather divided country. we must highlight the fact that the country's european perspective will change the status quo, positively affect the way politicians conduct domestic politics and give hope for a better future to all citizens of the country, regardless of their ethnic origin or religion. at this point, i would like to stress the fact that it is very important that the reforms in bosnia and herzegovina are promoted in a balanced way, with transparency and in dialogue with the social partners, so as to bring about positive changes in the daily lives of all the inhabitants of the country, ensuring new jobs with the necessary protection for the least favoured in society. this is very important, especially for the young, so that they can stay in the country and believe in a better common future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. all parties involved must abandon nationalistic leanings and think of the common good of the citizens; the neighbouring countries must also contribute to this. our political group has stressed, from the beginning of the discussions on the progress report, the importance of the social dimension in this country; the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the report is not only updated, but also updated. the s&d group will insist on equal rights for all citizens and the need to focus on promoting reconciliation and socially sensitive reforms.
madam president, first of all i would like to condemn in the strongest possible terms all the terrorist attacks that have taken place in europe and in turkey. there can be no excuse for them. but at the same time i think we must look here in parliament at the causes of these terrorist attacks, which are nothing other than wars and poverty. in this parliament there are members of parliament representing states which have contributed to the wars, which have given birth to this spirit of evil. i am referring, if you will, to mr tony blair, who rushed to iraq in search of a bottle of chemicals, from which bottle of chemicals he brought out this great spirit of evil. interventions in other states must be related to education and not be perceived by the citizens of those states as interference in their politics. i would like to conclude by saying that we can contribute to the development of the countries around us, but not in a way that is seen as interference in the politics of those countries, because the arab spring has in the end become the arab winter.
mr president, i thank the commissioner for his contribution to the debate. i am sorry, first of all, that we are repeating a debate that took place a year ago, which shows that, unfortunately, we have achieved very little. i will avoid saying that we have to stop the causes of the problem, which are wars, because it will sound too important. we are already facing the problem and that is what we have to deal with. i support all the proposals that have been heard because they are moving in the right direction. i would like to stress the proposal that the matter should be discussed in the national parliaments. the member states must take their responsibilities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they should have this subject on their agenda so that all useful information is given where it belongs.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. we welcome, for example, the deletion of the proposal for compulsory participation of the commission in the negotiations. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. the various proposals which remain for the commission to be more involved in the process, even before the conclusion of intergovernmental agreements, with the obligatory ex ante evaluation, are problematic and involve risks. the member states cannot be prevented from signing, ratifying or approving draft intergovernmental agreements without the commission's approval, as requested in the proposal submitted. the european union has not yet been able to tackle the serious problems of energy supply, as many member states (and regions) of the union are isolated from the major energy networks. it is very dangerous to promote policies which restrict the ability of states to form multi-dimensional energy agreements in the interests of the people. instead, we must ensure that there is enhanced state control and national flexibility to ensure energy security for the people. the commission's attempt to manipulate the states is unacceptable. the gue/ngl will therefore vote against this proposal.
in writing. we support the report because it really does support citizens on the issues of access to medicines and the broadening of options. the eu charter of fundamental rights recognises the fundamental right of citizens to health and medical care. public health systems must ensure universal access to health care for all european citizens. we believe that pharmaceutical products are the key factor in health care, which all citizens have the right to access. the high prices of innovative medicines do not provide access to all citizens. competition is an important factor in bringing down the prices of medicines and thus improving access to medicines. we note that expenditure on the eu pharmaceutical industry amounted to 17.1% of total health expenditure and 1.41% of gross domestic product.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. i believe that the first task of europe is to support and preserve and protect its own cultural heritage. the cultural heritage of cyprus is at the same time european. the european union is well aware that for 43 years, on a huge part of cyprus, 37% of the territory of the republic of cyprus, the cultural and religious heritage of europe has been destroyed every day. we believe, mr commissioner, and we appreciate the work you are doing, that it is time for you to take the initiative, as a huge, important piece of religious cultural heritage and treasures in occupied cyprus is being destroyed, so that there are ways of preserving it and, what is most important and important, of financing projects that will allow us to restore what the turkish occupier destroyed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in turkey is not further complicated. it is not possible to be a member state and at the same time want to join the european union, to destroy the cultural heritage of the european union and to trade in these treasures. i believe that the time has come for action and we hope and believe and rely very much on you, commissioner.
the committee on budgets has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. i am convinced, mr president, that programmes such as the 'europe for citizens' programme, for which i have the honour of drawing up the opinion of the committee on budgets, are programmes which are really in line with and follow the same course as the aim we have set here, namely to serve the european idea, the european principles, the european values. i believe that was the spirit of the speech by the president of the european commission, mr juncker, himself, on the white paper on the future of the european union. if we really want europe to have a future, in a period when euroscepticism and populism are sweeping everything in their path, then we must support and strengthen programmes such as the 'europe for citizens' programme. it is a project which touches the people, which reaches out to civil society, a project which shows a europe which is really at the service of the people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we really want to strengthen the european institution, the european ideas and the european principles, we have to do one thing: to shield and strengthen corresponding programmes, such as the programme we discussed earlier, for 'creative europe', the 'europe for citizens' programme, 'erasmus+'. i believe that we must coordinate and design them in such a way that they really serve the citizens and society, in order to really create a europe for the future.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the criminal policy of demolition pursued by israel against the palestinian people continues. yesterday was the last day of the deadline given by the israeli authorities to the bedouin community to demolish their homes in the village of khan al-ahmar in the west bank of palestine. this bedouin community is in immediate danger. it consists of 140 inhabitants, most of whom are children. in fact, a nursery school was built in the settlement with european union funding. the european parliament delegation for relations with palestine had recently visited this village and because of our presence there the israeli authorities have postponed the demolition, which was scheduled for february. i have to say that based on the un data, in 2016 the most demolitions were carried out by israel, and in 2017 the israeli authorities have already demolished 172 palestinian structures in area c and east jerusalem. it is an israeli policy to demolish settlements, to expand illegal israeli settlements and to divide the west bank in two. it is time for the european union to act immediately to ensure that the illegal demolitions and the illegal expansion of israeli settlements are brought to an end. the european parliament must send the message: it opposes these illegal demolitions, it opposes the illegal expansion of israeli settlements and it supports the two-state solution, which is the only option today for lasting peace in the wider middle east.
the commission the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. it is time to take action. i would like to take this opportunity to say that the european commission has the greatest responsibility for the issue of gender equality. the european union, whose history, culture, principles, values and path are in favour of equality and parity, cannot itself see in its reports that it has not been possible to bridge the wage and pension gap, the gap in the treatment of men and women. i believe that by definition the european union is opposed to gender discrimination. the european union must by definition protect this equality of the sexes, and i believe it is up to the european union not to have to debate every year and to devote days to actually confirming the obvious: that it is our duty to defend equality of the sexes. i think that there is a huge responsibility and a challenge, and we must not under any circumstances ignore what is happening in practice. the budget of the european union was essentially to incorporate the gender dimension through integration into the programmes, into the different funds. the european union could give practical support to this effort. i express my respect, my esteem and my admiration for every woman, working woman, mother, woman, woman fighter, but at the same time i must take this step to express my admiration, my pride and my esteem for the woman of my country, the cypriot woman, who for 43 years has been a refugee, but who fights, who is at the same time a worker and fights, so that she can return home, so that she can stop being a trapped woman of cyprus, stop being a refugee woman, stop essentially this torment that exists through the turkish invasion and through the tragedy of 1974.
mr president, to protect the environment and ensure a quality of life, we must put an end to uncontrolled waste generation and aim for sustainable consumption. we cannot consume everything, because in the circular economy, waste will be recycled. we welcome the fact that individual proposals are being put forward. we agree that binding targets should be set, that the responsibility of large producers should be extended, that prevention measures should be strengthened to ensure efficient use of resources, that recycling should be promoted and that the union should finance the development of the necessary waste management infrastructure. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. but there are other important objectives which are sadly lacking. we must promote the rehabilitation of landfills. and ensure the involvement of local communities, environmental and trade union organisations and other social actors in the legislative process.
mr president, i think the most important thing we have to say is that we produce things that we don't use. the commission has recently put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the iphone 4 has a different charger than the iphone 6. millions of miles or kilometers of electrical wire go to recycling, if it goes to recycling! i am of the opinion that glass bottles should not be destroyed for recycling glass. they have to be washed to be returned; i dare not say that the same must be true of plastics. but what a nice talk about the circular economy! the monsanto company, my dear colleagues, produces seeds which cannot germinate afterwards. what a beautiful world! there's no recycling of the seeds! if this isn't a crime against humanity, i don't know what else could be.
madam president, this is a decision which affects poor women in particular. it's what we have to fight for. we have a duty as a european parliament to support these women. mr trump's gag rule is an insult to all women worldwide, and we are not going to accept this reduction in resources, but we are also looking for ways to replenish them, otherwise we are talking without results. the reduction of resources leads to abortions outside organized medical centers, with often unpleasant results. we need to get a clear message to mr. trump.
madam president, as the council conclusions indicate, the european union remains vigilant about the continuing violations of human rights worldwide and will continue to cooperate with all those involved to ensure that the relevant un bodies are involved in any case. commissioner, you have made very clear the cases of many countries which flagrantly violate human rights and individual freedoms and which impose severe discrimination not only against their own citizens but against anyone else, or which illegally occupy the territories of other un member states, committing acts of genocide and ethnic cleansing, threatening world peace, and many of these countries have the right to vote and have a say in decision-making. but you did not mention the case of turkey, which is violating all the human rights of the turkish people, and has committed genocide for ethnic cleansing in the occupied republic of cyprus, and against the people of kurdistan. the european union has a duty to protect human rights and to ensure that the rights of the turkish people are respected.
madam president, the commissioner has very well and very accurately outlined the issue of human rights for all mankind and at the same time i must point out and congratulate the commissioner and the european commission for the sensitivity they show to these issues. the commissioner is known for his humanitarian work and for his unlimited sensitivity to human rights issues. we are pleased that the european commission continues to be a vigilant watchdog for the preservation and protection of human rights. i shall not repeat the very important and pertinent points made by the commissioner and by my colleagues. what i have to say is that in the middle east, which is historically the cradle of christianity, there is a brutal eradication, annihilation and levelling of every christian element and christians are persecuted as well as their religious leadership. historic christian monuments, which were the symbol and beacon of christianity, were destroyed. this barbaric activity must be stopped and i call on the european commission to be able to intervene at the right time to restore, re-create and re-establish christianity in its cradle in the middle east. as for turkey, i have to say that yes, turkey continues to violate human rights not only within its own country but also in my own country, cyprus. unfortunately, for 43 years turkey has been violating every principle of law, every human right, denying the right of return to refugees, denying the right and the possibility of freedom to my fellow citizens who are trapped, denying the possibility of exploiting assets and, unfortunately, in recent times it has been showing an unacceptably provocative attitude and behaviour towards the solution of the cyprus problem. i think that the european union can really put pressure on turkey and convince it that it cannot be a candidate country and at the same time violate human rights in a member country.
madam president, i think we should stop looking for hell in other places besides earth. the town of raka yesterday in kobani is hell for its inhabitants. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but we are in an age where, according to the great philosopher nico kazanjac, we must do what we cannot: transcend ourselves. in ethiopia and other parts of africa, people are dying of hunger in 2017. it's a disgrace to the world, but more so to us, who are supposed to represent the civilized part of humanity. and a word about turkey: i think it was necessary and i do not know whether the policy pursued by the european union today towards that country is the most beneficial. is there a human right that hasn't been violated?
mr president, the main issue is what ends up in the human body through the food chain of animals and the cultivation of plants, but the very behaviour towards animals shows the level of our civilization. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. appropriate penalties for offenders are also a necessary measure. human civilization, my dear colleagues, only makes sense if our behavior towards other creatures on earth is on the level we deserve. until the day man manages not to have to kill other creatures on earth for food let us at least try to behave like rational animals.
in writing. as the eu, our common future and interest includes a common defence of our external borders and the convergence of our economies. but at the heart of our interests are the basic rules of law based on the principles and values of our culture. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the council will be consulted on the matter. but there were times when the eu was not up to the task. indicatively, the recent un human rights report for the period july 2015 - december 2016 in the n/e kurdish provinces in turkey records 30 cities affected with 2,000 deaths (some burned alive), while 350-500 thousand were displaced, 1,800 apartment blocks were demolished, in the city of jisre entire neighborhoods were destroyed and under the cover of emergency state terrorism was practiced with torture and deprivation of children to the elderly. a crime against humanity has been committed by the erdogan regime with no one being punished. when crime was at its peak, few meps were informed by conferences, videos and photos against the official silence of the eu leadership. today, with the continuing crime of illegal occupation of european territory in cyprus, with the siege of 18 kurdish villages, the commission is seeking to upgrade the customs union with turkey.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, i would first like to refer to something said by some of my colleagues: 'defending the right to speak of both the fascist and the communist'. how is it possible to bring together a man who defends racist ideas intolerant... and when has anyone here, in this room, whether from the communist or from the left any racist talk or intolerance? and i think we should be more careful about that. i am in favour of transparency. everyone should have a right to speak, everyone should have a right to receive funds. it is true that it must be checked if it advocates racist and intolerant views, but i do not think that if someone advocates the view that another european union can replace the present one, a better, more prosperous european union, etc., we should exclude him from funding.
mr president, i congratulate the two rapporteurs on their ambitious report. our common future and interest include common defence. the future of the european union, it was said, would depend on our attitude to this issue. two pressing reasons have already been mentioned: russia's behavior and trump's isolationism. however, in order to have credibility in our words, we must really feel that the external borders of the european union are the external borders of all of us, from the baltic states to the aegean and cyprus. the legal framework of the lisbon treaty is sufficient to go forward. article 2 states that the union shall provide its citizens with an area of freedom, security and justice. however, article 2 is already being violated in cyprus, where turkey illegally occupies european territory of the republic of cyprus.
the european union must be a new global pole for promoting peace and reconciliation between peoples and nations. if we become a third or fourth military pillar, we are only serving the war, the migration and the poverty that comes from these wars. the attempt to link up with nato is particularly worrying. the european union must not become an arm of another organisation. but i'll tell you this: i would reconsider, ladies and gentlemen, if someone here, a representative of the council or a representative of the commission, were to tell me that, when all that the commission and the council have said is done, this army will send its forces to cyprus to drive the turkish troops from european territory.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. we must protect it and keep it away from the rivalries of the world; we must at last keep a place on earth away from wars and rivalries. it's the last foundation for world peace. the european union must develop cooperation policies to mitigate, if not eliminate, the risks. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the projects.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, montenegro is facing a very serious process of accession to the european union, and i too support the efforts of the european union and parliament to overcome in this country the chronic conflicts and external interventions which have so tragically affected the lives of ordinary people in this particular corner of europe. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the report unfortunately serves to some extent, rather than mitigating, the conflict between the european union and russia. the reports and appeals for the country's membership of nato will unfortunately create new conflicts within it, if we take into account that society there is already too divided on this issue. as a european parliament, our aim should be to deepen our relations with montenegro so that it can tackle the problems it faces, such as corruption, organised crime, poverty and the rule of law.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, we are talking about a crime against humanity. i think that all my colleagues have expressed their displeasure with this evil in a very strong way. but at the same time, i feel that we are speaking from this safe space about a subject so remote, as if we were looking at it through binoculars. we can't get close to the terrible evil that's happening to these hundreds of thousands of people if we can't get really close to that image. and there is no other way but to get out of this room and go to the places where these tragic events are happening. and i'll close with the well-known statement that is often heard loudly from the left: we must confront the causes that cause this evil, and the causes are wars and famine. there are no other ways!
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. women in rural areas need and deserve our full attention and full support as they play an extremely important role on their family farms and contribute to the development of entrepreneurship, sustainable development and the wider economy. the challenges faced by women in rural areas are many and we call on the member states and regional and local authorities to continue to support these women and encourage them to take additional measures.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the two co-rapporteurs on the good work they have done and the excellent cooperation we have had. after a year of investigation and hours of hearings it is now clear that there are serious political responsibilities. the commission and the member states were both well aware, as early as 2013, when the joint research centre report was made public, that there was a possibility of using systems to falsify emissions measurements. but they received no measure. the lack of action is not, however, due to a lack of information or insufficient resources, as the recommendations resolution wrongly claims. unfortunately, it has been confirmed that the excessive delays that have occurred are due to the influence of the lobby and the pressures exerted by the automobile industry. despite the declarations on the need to protect the environment, it has been shown that the commission lacked the political will to act in accordance with the seriousness of the issue of high emissions and to give priority to the protection of threatened public health. we therefore denounce the serious political responsibilities and omissions of both the commission and the member states in the application of union law and in the imposition of sanctions. the commission's proposals are not in line with the spirit of the treaty and the treaty of rome. those responsible for the loopholes in the law and the safety net they gave to the multinationals to be able to do illegal things will have to pay, because the volkswagen fraud is not an isolated case, but part of a wider political scandal.
mr president, in 2015 we had a thriller here in the european parliament, asking the greek government to finally show responsibility and discipline in taking measures and tough policies. greece did it. the commission, in a responsible manner, has recognised greece's practical position. but today, as the agreements are being implemented, new demands are being made without any rational basis. what was built with sacrifice and hard compromise is in danger of collapsing, leaving only ruins. the cost of the delay in the evaluation is already estimated at some 20 billion. but in the midst of such economic crisis and deprivation, the greek people, ladies and gentlemen, are defending the external borders of the european union against erdoğan and are receiving irresponsibility, irony and expediency from some people here. it is not this european union that has a future.
mr president, mr dijsselbloem's statement has been denounced on many occasions and i denounced it in a letter to the commission from the outset. the reason i am returning is that behind the statement there is something much more important which was not mentioned; there is a political concept which guided the negotiations. what is important and what must be denounced is that this man with this notion is the one who imposed these memoranda. finally, i have to say that the economy is a very big deal to be left to economists alone. it is political action, political thinking, that should determine how the greek debt issue should move, and i think that without a debate on the debt there can be no meaningful way out.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteurs, because they are raising an issue which concerns human lives and health. i also believe that before medical devices are placed on the market, they must be shown to be safe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of medicinal products is not compromised. the implants are not a parameter, but an essential element of the issue, given the well-known case of implants that was revealed some years ago in france. single-use devices need further in-depth research. the legislation should also impose a surprise check. i would like to conclude by repeating what i said at the beginning, namely that we are talking about people's lives and health and we must be strict.
madam president, migrants and refugees need our full support, but the european union is unfortunately proving inadequate. it is clear that the shortcomings of the common foreign and defence policy are making the schengen borders permeable, are not protecting the non-schengen countries and, above all, are not protecting the poor immigrants and refugees. a common immigration and asylum policy is needed to share the burden fairly among the member states. we need solidarity among ourselves and support for the countries bearing the burden of refugees. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the treaty of rome and the treaty of rome. and, above all, greater care is needed for the particularly vulnerable, such as young and unaccompanied children, the sick, the elderly, the psychopaths, the disabled, all those among the refugees. the problem will be raised after turkey's expected transformation into an authoritarian state on 16 april. the european union's policy in turkey is proving to be a complete failure.
mr president, i have heard very good views here that we should support people to stay in their countries. i argue that it is a very good idea, but i suspect that the real message behind this idea is: let's not let them come to our door. i tell you, this man who has been born blind will not be forgiven. · when these people come to us, then we must see how we can ensure a good living. i would also like to mention something about turkey. mr erdoğan is threatening to break the agreement and the european union seems to fear this possibility. in my judgment, the threat is meaningless and i will explain, in passing, why. to some extent, the war has been cut off, so the power has been cut off. secondly, the syrians in turkey have been there for about three or four years and they've gotten used to it to a certain extent. thirdly, the corridors from greece to the rest of europe have been closed, so if they come to greece, they will stay, at best, in some settlements. i think it is right to know that mr erdoğan's threats are empty words and should be taken as such.
mr president, the report rightly criticises the union for focusing too much on stopping migration flows rather than tackling the causes of refugee and migration. it is rightly said that migrants and refugees not only do not harm our societies, but on the contrary, they strengthen and enrich them. the causes of the flows of refugees and migrants may be correctly pointed out, but the reasons for the conflicts and wars are not named, nor is the role played by the european states and the united states. on the contrary, the union continues its dead-end, inhumane policy of new border walls, the separation of legal and illegal immigrants, the strengthening of frontex and unacceptable agreements with neighbouring countries to act as border guards. as i have stressed many times, the flows can only be tackled by addressing their causes and by genuine solidarity, solidarity and support for the countries suffering, solidarity also within the european union and, finally, by creating legal pathways and implementing a permanent system of relocation of refugees.
mr president, i regret that we are often generous and flat-footed in our criticism, going so far as to neglect and, in effect, not to acknowledge any successes, while we are particularly stingy in giving praise, congratulations and congratulations to positive actions and energies. i have to give credit to the dear rapporteurs, jan olbrycht and isabelle thomas, and to the commissioner, mr oettinger, because they really fought hard and achieved a small step, as some have called it, for us, a major success, a small feat in today's circumstances, namely the revision of the multiannual financial framework, which was an obstacle to our being able to implement our policies and strategies. we are critical and say that there are no jobs. and we are looking for jobs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and we have succeeded, through this revision of the multiannual financial framework, in sending the message that europe can, that europe is moving forward, that europe, through hard work, as has been done by the dear colleagues and the commissioner, is able to show its good side, its positive side, its positive actions. this is the europe we want, a europe which can, in this difficult period, channel six billion for youth unemployment, for the european strategic investment plan, for innovation, for horizon 2020, for cosme, for the connecting europe facility, for all those programmes we are all looking for. it is not right, therefore, that now that we are given the opportunity through this important success, we should try in any way to diminish these achievements. i think the message is clear. europe is showing that it cares about its citizens. it is europe with a social face, which in practice, through this revision, proves once again that, when it wants to, it can become the europe of the citizens, the europe of the young, the europe of small and mediumsized enterprises, the europe of the social person, of social policy and action, and not of reaction, of nihilism, of negativity and of levelling.
mr president, i agree with a great deal of what has been said and i do not want to repeat it. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we have our own responsibility, colleagues. thousands of politicians in every corner of europe are not prepared to lie to the world rather than be honest with themselves? let's be honest with each other. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament. doesn't that corrupt and feed the myth and the lie? we are, to a very large extent, feeding the phenomenon that we are trying - those of us who are trying today - to stop. and we have a barrier that we have created in large part and we have reached the point where one has to be prepared to be called a liar if one tells the truth. we need education, ladies and gentlemen - and i agree with mr borg very much - education to help us combat lies and myths effectively. lies and myths that often take centuries to abandon, especially if we feed them with both action and apathy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but it also requires our own faith and our own constant struggle for it.
question with a blue card. i think it is difficult to defend the view that roaming charges should not be reduced. but arguments have been made that are reasonable and say that companies are very likely or absolutely certain to pass on their losses to local consumers and, if you consider that only 30%, 20% or 40% of people in different countries move to other countries, that will be at the expense of some others. i would like the honourable member to answer this question. madam president, since i have asked to speak during the 'catch the eye' procedure, i would ask that my name be removed from the list, since i have now intervened.
madam president, we are certainly in favour of abolishing roaming charges, as this will provide consumers with financial relief. it is clear to us that telecommunications and the internet are public goods to which everyone should have equal access. however, the proposal before us involves many dangers. firstly, it does not contain any provision to redress the imbalance created by the different numbers of tourists each country receives. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's tourism industry is not left behind. second, there's no guarantee that the locals won't pay the cost eventually. on the contrary, it is certain that, in order to survive, domestic providers will pass on costs to consumers, increasing domestic charges. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the costs to local companies in the summer months will be unbearable, with unforeseen consequences. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to support them. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
answer to a question with a blue card. we, as i said, consider this to be important, but we must also create a fund to support small countries, such as my own, and the small producers in those countries, who will collapse under this system. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the restructuring of the steel industry. they'll either recycle it to domestic providers or they'll go under as companies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, i agree with those who have spoken before that the abolition of roaming charges is indeed a positive step. the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one, and it is a new one, and it is a new one, and it is a new one. i would like to mention the need for a sustainability mechanism. that is, if there is a serious price divergence in some member states, to allow for the maximum price to be adjusted if necessary. the sustainability mechanism is not part of the agreement before us. who can guarantee and explain to those member states which have these concerns that their concerns about the absence of this mechanism are being met?
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, mr hahn, the question you have raised is very important: what should we do? the question is what message should the european union send to turkey today? is there a better time to decide what the message is, given the way the referendum was conducted? the position that talks with turkey should be suspended and that we should continue negotiations on the customs union i think is probably laughable to president erdogan, because it is as if you were saying to him: 'i don't want you to join, i don't want you to come to my house, but what do i care if you go into the kitchen? i'm not sure. the customs relationship between the european union and turkey gives turkey exactly what it wants and it makes no difference if the negotiations are interrupted, if at the same time we move towards an update of the customs union, which is exactly what it is seeking, given that the existing customs agreement does not serve it in all the member states.
the commission madam president, commissioner hahn, it is with great relief that i have heard you say today all that i have been trying to say for eight years in the one minute i have from time to time with many other colleagues on turkey. it is indeed impressive that after so many years the european parliament is beginning to understand what we have been living for so long. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. turkey has not signed it with the republic of cyprus. are we going to continue the same mistakes and the same mistakes of the past? at the moment turkey has surrounded cyprus with its naval fleet, is conducting live fire exercises very close to the coast, is conducting illegal explorations within the exclusive economic zone of cyprus, is intimidating, is pursuing a policy of intimidation and threats and at the same time is demanding the four european freedoms for turkish citizens in the republic of cyprus. the european union is not reacting, and the european parliament is not reacting.
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. turkey has shown that the political tolerance even of the european union, which has tolerated for so many years the existence of a member state of the european union occupied by turkey without imposing any punishment on turkey, has been and is eroding turkey. the only way turkey sees to really implement human rights, principles and values both inside and outside turkey is by imposing sanctions. at the moment, in the cyprus problem, turkey, with its intransigent attitude and its unacceptable demands for the implementation of the four fundamental freedoms, guarantees and occupying troops, is actually undermining and undermining the solution of the cyprus problem. at the same time, it sent the oceanographic vessel barbaros to cyprus - and it is breaking european borders - to drill in the cypriot eez. it was basically given to european companies to do these drilling. i have one thing to say: the european union must not allow the turkish people to be forced to accept the new state of affairs. )
s & d) and the madam president, we have a dictator in turkey and we are finally recognizing him. while in power, dictators do not leave by democratic elections, but when they do, humanity, in this case inside turkey and outside, will pay a heavy price. so erdogan refuses to adapt to our values and rules, and it is not our fault that turkey is not being europeanized. it continues to occupy european territory in cyprus, threatens greece and recently threatens the european eez of the republic of cyprus. prisoners, journalists, academics and, as we speak, 100 personalities are in turkish prisons on hunger strike; 34 are women, 8 are on the verge of dying and here i hear hypocritical words. so i'm going to end with a question: we're going to reach out to erdogan, to save the turkish economy?
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, congratulations to the two co-rapporteurs for their hard work and the cooperation we have had in this outcome. this proposal is ambitious and aims to act as a means of technical support to member states in planning and implementing their reform agenda, should they so wish. the appropriation, i.e. ownership of structural reforms, is essential to the success of the programme. equally positive about this proposal is that the objectives of the programme include ensuring a high level of social welfare, social services, health, education, the fight against poverty, social dialogue and tackling financial illiteracy amongst many others. i would like to conclude by saying, mr president, that we would support any future legislative proposal to extend the programme, but it should provide for separate funding and not for transfer of funds from the structural funds, and finally, the member states and the commission are now faced with the implementation of this proposal.
s & d) and the mr president, our principles and values, the rule of law, are the distillation of our intangible culture, which is why we strongly support the establishment of 2018 as the european year of cultural heritage. but, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i regret that in one part of the european union it is not possible to protect our culture. in this part of the european union, the monuments of our culture are being destroyed, churches and chapels have been turned into stables and ottoman baths. centuries-old paintings, ancient monuments of greek culture are being completely destroyed. this place is not in palmyra, syria, it's in turkish-occupied cyprus, and here i have two books; one is titled: "the destruction of religious monuments by the turkish army in the occupied part of cyprus" and the other: "religious monuments in turkish-occupied cyprus". here's the whole truth, unfortunately.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. we strongly support the decision to declare 2018 as the european year of cultural heritage, with the aim of raising awareness among europeans about european history and values, and strengthening the common sense of european identity. however, i regret to have to remind you and to denounce the fact that the religious and cultural heritage of cyprus has been destroyed every day since 1974 by a country which is in the process of joining the eu, turkey. turkey is destroying priceless cultural treasures which are europe's common cultural heritage and which the eu must safeguard. the imposition of sanctions on turkey for the destruction of european monuments and for the brutal violation of the basic principle of respect for religious and cultural heritage is considered appropriate.
the commission madam president, mr dijsselbloem's position is a purely political one and i would agree with my dear portuguese colleague, mr rangel, that after his offensive, unacceptable and degrading statements about the countries of the south, which are equally degrading to women, the least he could have done is to have already submitted his resignation. and for those who do not know history, i want to say and emphasize that without the countries of the south, the european union would be very different, not to say that there would be no european union, because if you knew the history of the european union, you would know very well that the countries of the south, which you despise, from 1973 to 1995, in that difficult period for europe, when there was the iron curtain, the eastern bloc, only three countries joined the european economic community to support europe: greece, portugal and spain. the greek people are proud, mr dijsselbloem, as are the peoples of the south, and i must point out to you that i, as a cypriot, will never forget the harsh and unjust measures you took against my country, and i will especially remind you that mr junker said that if he were in your position he would never have taken the decision you took on cyprus. but you did the same for the other countries of the south and your statements confirm that they were not accidental, they were statements of prejudice, and one cannot remain in this position of the eurogroup today with this mentality and this perception. your presence in the eurogroup has not benefited either the eurogroup or the euro area or the countries of the south. we are proud of our origins and our origins in the south, but we are by no means proud of your presence and your position in the eurogroup.
the commission mr president, i must denounce the fact that two member states of the european union, greece and cyprus, are, as we speak, facing the aggressive and expansionist threat of turkey, which is violating both their territorial waters and exclusive economic zones, and is imposing naval blockades on member states of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the turkish government does not continue to use the turkish territory as a base for its military operations. it is not just these two countries that are being tested for us. the credibility of the european union is also being tested. the european union's own sovereign rights are being violated, and i believe that we must do, and you must do, what we would do here in the european parliament, and as the european union, if any other country of the 27 member states of the european union were threatened. i believe that a country cannot be considered a candidate for accession to the european union - until yesterday mrs mogherini received mr chelik on the basis of turkish requests - and at the same time insult and challenge the principles and values of the european union. this turkish practice is dangerous, it creates dangers in the eastern mediterranean and, most importantly and most importantly, it offends and provokes countries which are members of the european union. we therefore call for solidarity, respect for principles and values and action against a country which is destabilising the region, which is insulting the principles of the european union and at the same time is asking for help and support from the european union.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission's new proposals for the european qualifications framework follow the same path and lead to a dead end. strengthening the digital skills of sectoral work, more information in specific areas, revision of the europass framework. these in themselves do not bring growth or reduction in unemployment. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national and regional authorities, the development of a european network of national and regional authorities, the development of a european network of regional authorities, the development of a european network of regional authorities, the development of a european network of regional authorities, the development of a european network of regional authorities, the development of a european network of regional authorities, the development of a european network of regional authorities, the development of a european network of regional authorities, the development of a european network of regional authorities, the development of a european network of regional authorities, the development of a european network of regional authorities, the development of a european network of regional authorities, the development of a european network of regional authorities, the development of a european network of regional authorities, the development of a european network of regional authorities, the development of a european network of regional authorities, the development of a european network of regional authorities, the development of a european network of regional authorities, the development of a european network of regional authorities, the development of a european network of regional authorities, the development of a european network of regional networks. the current cost of government internships in firms is not a strategy against unemployment. it is clearly support for increasing corporate profits. the responsibility for employment cannot be unilaterally placed on the workers. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right to work is not infringed.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, i asked for the floor because i want to add a few things to the debate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's right. but, ladies and gentlemen, one of the main issues we have to look at is the commercialisation of education. you go to school three times three plus three, nine years of school, maybe more, and you end up without a job. that's the most important thing. and i remember a speech that i don't know who said, i don't remember now, and i think it's good to hear it in the house: i was doing very well in my education until i was sent to school, he says. i would like to conclude by saying that what we lack is an education with a humanistic background. in addition to finding work, which we are not finding anyway, we are producing creatures that humanize man and the european citizen.
in writing. the commission celebrates in its latest report the record number of refugee resettlements in march. and he considers the 16,000 resettlements that have been carried out to date a success, even though the original target was to resettle 160,000 refugees. how long will states continue to refuse to take in refugees, thus violating fundamental eu principles and at the same time reinforcing the forces of xenophobia and racism in the union? how long will their racist criteria be tolerated ? amnesty international warns of the inhumane conditions in which refugees are living. but the eu is proving to be less than adequate to demonstrate practical solidarity and humanity! if we are to deal with the refugee crisis, we must have equal responsibilities. the dublin ii regulation should be repealed. the agreement on the exchange of refugees with turkey should be withdrawn immediately. sanctions against states that do not respect their commitments and the establishment of a permanent and fair system of resettlement of refugees. and most importantly, the union must stop supporting wars and foreign interventions, because these are what create the waves of refugees.
mrs mogherini, i personally - and i think, logically, you too - am tired of hearing the description of the suffering of the syrian people, or even the description of the crimes against the syrian people. it tends to become a kind of theatrical reenactment, at a time when we have not been able, for six years, to find solutions that bring peace to this country. i call on you to continue your efforts so that we can see whether peace will come to this place in the near future, and whether the time will come when those responsible will be held accountable and put in jail, if we succeed in bringing them to justice for this great tragedy. because, after all, syria has become an arena where foreigners fight for their own national interests. you have no other role than the one you have described, to continue your efforts, to see if we can find a solution to this very tragic problem that is in our neighborhood.
the situation in syria is still tragic. the contribution of the european union and of mrs mogherini in particular to the achievement of a lasting political solution in syria is crucial. the aim is to bring peace to this troubled country so that it can return to normalcy and the european union can help to rebuild it. the european union has a duty to help the syrian people, and i am sure that the syrian people will be able to help themselves. we must get in front, take the initiative. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the gatt agreement, and it has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the gatt agreement. the european union has a duty to help the people of cyprus, and the european union has a duty to help the people of cyprus. cyprus is very close to syria and should be the political and diplomatic outpost of the european union. the european union has a duty to help the people of the region, and to help the people of the region to be able to live in peace and security. we are also sending the essential message that europe is there, not just visiting and leaving.
s & d) and the mr president, we do not tolerate the crimes of the syrian regime, but we do not tolerate the crimes of anyone in syria. mrs mogherini, you will agree with me, there are no good and bad killers of defenseless people. the islamic state was and remains the main source of the heinous crimes in syria and the main ally of the international coalition against the islamic state is, and has proven to be in practice, the kurdish ypg, but turkey is reacting and calling them "terrorists" and bombing them. the united states has already chosen the ypg as their potential ally against the islamic state. where are we ? will turkey determine our policy? i would like to conclude with a question: how much more effective would it be if there were a common defence and security policy, with common defence structures.
madam president, there is no doubt that the situation in the middle east is a nightmare. in the cradle of christianity, in the womb of christianity, where the earliest christian communities are, there is at this moment a road map to their extinction. and if today we are talking about the destruction of christianity in the middle east, we must speak clearly that this is a genocide of christians in the first place, and if indeed, dear mrs mogherini, a christian from the middle east were to ask us here in the european parliament what we are doing today to prevent its extinction, what would our answer be? what will be our response when from 28% christians in the middle east to 5% today? what is our response to the destruction of religious christian culture, today, in 2017 in cyprus by turkey, by an occupying power. and when we talk about genocides, the champion of christian genocides was turkey. genocide of armenians, genocide of pontius, genocide of greeks, genocide in another form in cyprus where religious christian culture is being destroyed and i would very much like, mrs mogherini, with the utmost respect and appreciation that i have for you, to know whether you told mr chelik, whom you recently met, that a country like turkey should not be allowed to continue to terrorize christians in the region. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in conclusion, i would like to ask you, please, the next time you meet mr. celik, to tell him what is happening to all those looted, stolen religious christian treasures that have been made by turkey. we want an answer and i will ask for a fund to be set up for christian religious treasures.
madam president, i am following very closely the sincere tears of all of us for the extermination of christians in the land of their fathers. the preservation of cultures in their cradle should be a primary objective of the much-vaunted globalisation. but from the vanity of strasbourg, dear colleagues, our tears are not an answer. what we have to do unfortunately is what we should have done already. i'm one of the first people in this room, if not the first, to have said that the famous arab spring would quickly turn into a cold, heavy arab winter, but no one listened. we missed the events. we let them develop. member states played a role in starting and continuing wars. so now i repeat that, unfortunately, our tears are not enough, neither do they hear them, nor do they feel them.
madam president, we are witnessing the holocaust of christians in the middle east, the birthplace of christianity. the source of evil, we won't analyze it now but it can't disappear, it's as long as there is an islamic state. decapitations, rapes, kidnappings, the destruction of churches and christian monuments. our prayers and our wishes are for all christians and for all non-christians in the middle east, but especially for the orthodox, the catholics, the copts and all the rest. mrs. mogherini, i'll say this slowly to translate correctly: i publicly convey to you the appeal of the flock of two orthodox metropolitans who were abducted exactly three years ago from aleppo. i refer to metropolitan paul and metropolitan john. the flock wants to know if you know anything about their fate.
madam president, the decision of the british people must be respected without intimidation or pressure in the negotiations. any agreement between the union and the united kingdom must ensure that social rights, labour standards, public health and environmental standards are not undermined. it is very important that all the rights of european citizens living, working or studying in the united kingdom are guaranteed. we welcome the reference to the good friday agreement, to support for the peace process and to the reference that there should be no hard borders. however, from another point of view, the brexit decision should concern european leaders, as it reflects the serious problems of the union, expresses the dissatisfaction that prevails among citizens with the neoliberal policies being promoted and the circumvention of the rights of workers and peoples. it is for this reason that brexit should not be used as a pretext to legitimize the deepening of the neoliberal model and the europe of many speeds.
in writing. cohesion policy is a very important pillar of the eu, as it supports all regions and cities in the european union and supports job creation, business competitiveness, economic growth, sustainable development and improving the quality of life of citizens. it is also a tangible demonstration of european solidarity, as the bulk of cohesion policy funding is concentrated in the least developed european countries and regions to help them catch up with other countries and reduce the economic, social and territorial disparities that still exist in the eu. we support the commission's initiative to advance funding of cohesion programmes, combined with specialised technical assistance, as the targeted provision of technical assistance is a catalyst for the future of eu cohesion policy.
in writing. we voted against the resolution as it expresses concern at the arrest and imprisonment of hakeem hichilema and insists on the need to ensure impartiality, diligence and transparency at all stages of the implementation of the law and throughout the judicial process. also notes with concern the reports that the charges are politically motivated and, therefore, recalls the need to respect fundamental rights and the rule of law, including access to justice and the right to a fair trial, as provided for in the african charter and other international and regional human rights instruments.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, the revision of the 2005 european consensus on development was an absolute necessity, given that much has changed on the global development map with the adoption of the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals in the face of the new challenges facing humanity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. fortunately, the new consensus sets the framework for the common principles and values to be applied, both by the institutions and by the states of the european union, for the common development policy of the 2030 agenda, because the risks to which poor populations are exposed by lack of resources, food, water, care, education and protection are enormous and must be eliminated. the commissioner said that development and democratic stability, the protection of human rights and the eradication of corruption were key factors in improving the living conditions of the poor, tackling uncoordinated migration, giving hope to young people and ensuring that no citizen was left behind.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, millions of people live in appalling conditions, both in the european union and in the rest of the world, where most of the dangers are man-made. creating societies that are able to deal with internal and external threats is of enormous importance. our effort should be to strengthen the resilience of societies, that is to support and protect populations from conflict, forced displacement, poverty, discrimination, corruption, slavery, climate change. it is important that the european union's external policy has as its central objective the promotion of resilience, by developing early warning and rapid response systems, that is, by engaging in policies to prevent social and economic crises. this requires targeted and effective delivery of development aid and control of humanitarian aid. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up in the next few months. there can be no resilience and stability for the european union's external action unless the european union proves that it can protect and preserve its external borders, that it can protect and preserve the peace in the member states of the european union. the current violations by turkey and the attacks on the sovereignty of member states such as cyprus and greece are a direct challenge and insult to the european union itself. and if the european union does not respond to the need to preserve and protect its credibility through a specific strategy for protecting its external borders, then all its policies are put to the test and we cannot speak of resilience and stability. the european union must guarantee to member states such as cyprus and greece that a candidate country for accession to the european union, turkey, cannot, on a virtually daily basis, undermine the dignity and credibility of the european union itself. i call on the high representative of the european union, mrs mogherini, to finally understand that she must send a clear message to turkey, stressing that she cannot challenge and insult the credibility of the european union itself and we must finally understand this. in conclusion, i would like to stress that to ensure stability, peace is needed. the president of the republic of cyprus, madam president, made a peace proposal to turkey and to mr akıncı to resolve the cyprus problem. not only was it not accepted, but offensively turkey wants to continue to be in cyprus, a tacit guarantor, and to maintain troops. this is unacceptable and ... (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, we are firmly opposed to any action which reinforces or promotes feelings of hatred, to any rhetoric which reinforces anti-semitism, which increases tension and generates violence. education, my dear colleagues, and prosperity are the basic tools that can support peaceful coexistence. any action that supports anti-semitism or anti-muslimism is reprehensible, but we must be clear: anti-semitism does not mean anti-israelism and the two should not be confused. the european union has a duty to help the palestinians, and i am sure that the european union will do so.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. 5g marks a revolution, a new era in the digital world by creating new high-performance networks, including high-quality and very high capacity networks. we share and support the european commission's objective of rapidly deploying 5g, which will be a hub for development and innovation. in addition, faster and better internet connectivity across europe will help to bridge the digital divide and allow the development and delivery of new innovative digital services, such as connected cars or ehealth, not only in urban but also in rural and remote areas.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, the horizon 2020 programme has many weaknesses that need to be addressed. access to finance, particularly for smes, has proven to be very difficult. the synergies between the academic community and the private sector, which are encouraged by the programme, often turn research into a tool of the big multinationals, which is developed on the basis of their own interests. we consider the new proposal for a specific budget to finance research in the military sector to be particularly dangerous. we demand that criticism be levelled at the fact that the programme is currently financing bodies which violate human rights, for example, the israeli bodies in the occupied palestinian territories. we will not accept that the programme is used to militarize the union. what is needed is to promote substantial reforms in the programme, based on the needs of society, to support the real economy, to contribute to social development and to lead to the creation of new quality jobs through these programmes.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. unfortunately, the gap between women's and men's pensions in the eu remains unbridled. it is very sad that cyprus has one of the highest records in terms of the gender pension gap. we support with all our strength any effort to achieve real equality between women and men and to prevent poverty and the vulnerable situation in which women who receive low pensions are at risk. we therefore consider that a comprehensive and generalised strategy to tackle the gender pension gap is necessary.
i'm the editor. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the group of the european united left has always argued that we must ensure that the energy labelling system is understandable to consumers, but that it also contains all the necessary information. we therefore welcome the proposals contained in the final agreement to delete the misleading symbols and to move to a simpler single marking system from a to g. the proposal for the a to g system, together with the proposal for the re-classification of products on the scale based on stricter criteria, will in our view also make a decisive contribution to promoting innovation to increase energy efficiency. we also consider the decision to create the new digital product database, which will be available to consumers free of charge, to be equally important. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a dispute between the commission and the consumer. consumers have a right to clearer indications of the energy efficiency of a product. unfortunately, with the timetables that are being set, the positive proposals contained in the final agreement will not be put forward in the immediate future, but after 8-10 years. this is very disappointing and is a major reason for reviewing the agreement. finally, i would like to stress that we are calling for immediate compensation to be paid to consumers who have been cheated by buying products with the wrong energy labelling. although this proposal was not included in the final agreement, it is nevertheless necessary to promote it immediately. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers against the risks of energy-related accidents is a very good one. however, we expect the commission to immediately clarify further the precise measures it intends to take, including the timetable for such actions, in order to implement its commitments.
s & d) and the madam president, the vice-president, mr dombrovskis, rightly pointed out that our policies must not be mutually undermining on the basis of our common objectives. and the commissioner, mr moscovici, rightly pointed out that a two-speed eurozone is dangerous. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. for example, it is known that the banking union also contains a european deposit guarantee scheme, which is a key parameter for stability in emu. but without its implementation, there is an indirect discrimination against the member states, particularly those in the european south, which are weak and small. this is a transfer of deposits to other member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. mr president, the blue card i had raised was for a question to the previous speaker. you didn't notice me. i think we can give him a chance to answer now. i had no idea what her position was on the subject, whether she was for or against the substance in question, and i would have asked her to clarify it further.
mr president, mrs lunacek's report rightly focuses on efforts to democratize kosovo and to resolve the problem with serbia, by making it a condition to guarantee the minority rights of the serbs of kosovo. unfortunately, there is no reference to security council resolution 1244. as the report points out, the region is plagued by political instability, corruption, inadequate democratic institutions and judiciary, and dangerous drug trafficking. the republic of cyprus, in compliance with international law and the sovereignty of states, cannot recognise kosovo as an independent authority or state. the report does, of course, ignore the positions of the member states which do not recognise kosovo and which have nothing to do with the enlargement of the european union to the western balkans. we hope for a rapid normalisation of relations between serbia and kosovo on the basis of the principles of the european union and international law, in order to promote the cooperation framework provided for in the stabilisation and association agreement. we stress that if the european union does not take seriously the extremist tendencies of a part of the albanian population and the influence of albanian rioters, we will face terrible consequences that will affect mainly skopje and open the bag of the owl in the balkans. let us not repeat, mr president, the mistake we made with turkey.
in writing. mr juncker, in your speech today, you referred several times to the importance of european solidarity and respect for the european treaties. nevertheless, on 25 may 2017, at your meeting with erdogan, you handed over a document with an eu roadmap of commitments to turkey, including the launch of negotiations on the modernisation of the turkish customs union by the end of the year and a new eu-turkey summit in spring 2018. this roadmap with commitments was issued without the consent of the member states, bypassing the european council as the competent body. is this your attitude in respect of the eu treaties? at the same time, turkey is violating the sovereignty of an eu member state and threatening european citizens of cyprus, but does your solidarity not extend to european cyprus? as an elected member of the european parliament, i represent european citizens to whom i would simply like you to explain the reasons for your behaviour.
madam president, the us withdrawal from the paris agreement should not come as a surprise. trump has at times criticized the deal as a farce aimed at weakening american industry. logical, since trump's neoliberal policies put the interests of corporations above protecting the environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the contrary, the catastrophic course of the united states for humanity confirms that even greater action is required from us. dramatic climate change is sending out a distress signal. it is not enough to condemn the withdrawal of the united states. the european union, in cooperation with china and other states, must develop initiatives to give practical support to developing countries and develop a comprehensive action plan to combat climate change, end the wasteful use of natural resources and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the community, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the environment.
mr. president, in the jungle all animals are equal, but the lion is a little more equal. there is no one who cannot complain that illicit financing should not be allowed, whether this is in malta, cyprus or any other country. but let's not throw the baby out with the bathtub. in a panel discussion on the panama papers, of which i am a member, it was said that one company is holding illicit money in 60 places around the world and we found that in one place alone it is hiding 70 billion. and on average, you make a trillion, and nobody's dealt with this issue. one trillion saves the world economic crisis and feeds the entire starving human population. so let's look at malta, let's look at other states, let's look at jersey and guernsey, because isolation gives the impression that we're not clear on how we're dealing with this.
madam president, i think that two very dear and distinguished colleagues, my friend josé manuel fernandes and mr udo bullmann, deserve to be congratulated today, because i believe that, with their combativeness and their good work with the commission and with mr juncker, they can be considered the pillars of this important investment project of the european union, which i believe is the biggest investment project since the founding of the european union. for those who consider and leave doubts about this plan, i have one thing to say: the numbers are staggering. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used to the full, and that the european union's financial instruments are used to the full. i would expect the critics to hear a different proposition. what is the other, different, envisaged investment plan for the european union? i believe that this investment project, at the moment, serves the objectives and objectives that the european union has set as priorities. but in the face of these figures, i must also express regret that there has not been the opportunity and the possibility of all these millions reaching my small country, cyprus, not even one euro. we will therefore invite mr moscovici, the commissioner, and mr katainen to come to cyprus and to send the message that this investment project will reach my own country. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, social deprivation and the backwardness of the labour market have forced the european parliament in previous reports to oppose policies which lead to the dismantling of the social welfare state and the attack on workers' rights over the last decade. the report on employment conditions and job insecurity is a continuation of this series of reports. the committee on employment of this parliament has, i believe, stood up to the challenge and is presenting a balanced report to the house. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all the rapporteurs for the constructive cooperation we have had during the debate on the report. it is now accepted by all political groups that social protection, protection through collective agreements and collective bargaining, must be accessible to all workers. the current apparent increase in employment rates masks the increase in precarious forms of employment, such as zero-hour contracts, false self-employment and involuntary part-time jobs that do not provide workers with a decent life and work rights. a number of surveys, and in particular the survey carried out on behalf of the employment committee of the european parliament, clearly show that workers on fixed-term and parttime contracts, which are often imposed on them, have increased significantly in the union over the last 15 years. these contracts may have existed before the economic crisis, but the inadequate and socially inappropriate solutions to combat it have exacerbated job insecurity and it is the anti-development policies of austerity and memoranda that have led to the disintegration of the social fabric and the impoverishment of large sections of the population, especially workers and pensioners. the aim of this report was to put the concept of employment back on its proper footing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. as rapporteur for the report, i think we have succeeded, together with the rapporteurs, in taking steps in this direction. we used the international labour organization's definition of decent work, which defines decent work as full and productive employment that ensures worker dignity, a fair income and job security, that provides freedom of expression, opinion, organization and participation in decisions that affect their lives, and that ensures equal opportunities and equal treatment for all, men and women. we also condemned abuses in the context of practical training or flexible employment contracts. we recalled that, according to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, every worker is entitled to a maximum working time limit, daily and weekly rest periods and an annual period of paid leave. we have stressed that this right must apply to all workers without exception. we also called on the commission and the member states to ensure effective protection for workers in the context of industrial relations, and a comprehensive policy response to reduce and eventually eliminate precarious employment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the union should promote policies that empower workers, through social dialogue and the extension of collective bargaining, ensuring that all workers can exercise their right to freedom of assembly and collective bargaining freely and without fear. at the same time, there is obviously a need to strengthen the welfare state, but also to create decent jobs through public investment and long-term state strategies. the committee also called on the member states and the commission to promote strategies for the universal coverage of workers with collective agreements.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, six months ago, when i took over the maltese presidency, i said on behalf of the gue/ngl that the new presidency must take clear steps to change course from the disastrous neoliberal austerity policies by strengthening social cohesion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. despite the ambitious efforts of the maltese presidency on migration and refugees and on issues relating to cooperation in the mediterranean, the mainstream policies of the union are unfortunately still deadlocked; the european union must not be left to the mercy of the european parliament, which is the only institution in the world that can do this. on behalf of the group of the european united left, i reiterate our position that what is needed is a new common asylum system, legal and safe passageways for refugees and a fair system for the relocation of refugees. we need practical social solidarity. we need social and economic policies that benefit the people and not the multinationals.
mr president, i will begin by saying that what i have seen with malta is that although it is a small member state, it is proving that it can do great things, so 'size does not matter', that is my understanding. but i will tell you about another small member state, which is currently fighting a battle on behalf of the whole of the european union and the values we all say we believe in. imagine your member state is a small island, about the size of malta, with a third of it under foreign occupation by a third country. the european union is not a political union, but a political union. you know of course which state i'm talking about. i am talking about cyprus, which remains committed to european values and i hope that this european union will show its solidarity in practice not with a weak and small member state but with the aggressive turkey of erdogan. this must be the european union, dear colleagues and friends. (applause from the centre and the right)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that unfortunately the millions of unemployed people in the european union, the millions of people who have precarious jobs, if they are listening to us - because i doubt it - if they are listening to us, they are either listening with a sense of regret or at least looking at us in a way that shows that they do not understand us and do not believe us. secondly, i would like to refer to the environment and say that the european union must have a very clear position, a unified position, against the new policy that mr trump wants to impose. finally, i should like to mention the greek public debt, which should have been a point of discussion, because i believe that without a real step back on this issue the country cannot break out of the vicious circle of memoranda, and the fact that this people have been suffering for many, many years, perhaps eight in a row up to now.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the new defence plan heralds the beginning of the process of the complete militarization of the union. is this the future you want for europe? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you are calling for investment in defence, the strengthening of the defence industry and the development of the union's military capabilities, so that it can become a stronger partner in the military sector. you propose the creation of permanent military structures and a european defence fund, with a budget of €5.5 billion a year to finance war systems. really, who is the enemy from whom we must defend ourselves? the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union has a duty to help the people of the world to find a way out of the present crisis. instead of investing in a new pillar of militarisation and proposing an even less social europe, use the union funds for social development and social solidarity. the union has a duty to take initiatives for complete demilitarisation, for the maintenance of peace and for the promotion of social well-being. what the people need are development policies to boost the real economy, to fight unemployment and poverty - not funds for war. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the people of europe are not left behind.
mr president, first of all i must really congratulate the excellent work of my dear colleague, siegfried mureşan, who really focused on what we express and what we are satisfied with. the budget we want and are demanding in the european union is the budget for development, the budget for small and mediumsized enterprises, for the ordinary citizen, for innovation, for research, for all that is offered by another europe, a more social, more human, more developmental and more competitive europe. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the council is to be consulted on the budget. i should like to stress that small countries, such as my country of cyprus, do not have the opportunity and the capacity to respond and to receive funds from european programmes, including the juncker plan, because they do not have the means and the capacity. the budget must also take account of these countries, the small ones, which do not have the means and the capacity. i support mr oettinger's policy of strengthening defence policy. the european union must defend itself, defend its external borders, defend the european union as a family and as a group of countries which will not allow small and weak countries, such as my native cyprus, to be endangered and threatened on a daily basis by countries such as turkey. and i would stress that countries which are in the process of joining the european union cannot threaten, provoke and occupy small countries, especially a member state of the european union such as cyprus. the european union must also respond and send the right messages, especially at this time.
madam president, sorry, just 30 seconds. i think that one word has accidentally been forgotten in that amendment? it says ‘to maintain full support for the efforts undertaken by the un to facilitate the comprehensive settlement to the division of cyprus’. we need to add one more word and the word is ‘end’, i.e. ‘to maintain full support for the efforts undertaken by the un to facilitate the comprehensive settlement to end the division of cyprus’.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, this is a report which, in my view, clearly reflects the situation in turkey, which has been described very well by commissioner hahn and, in particular, by the rapporteur, mrs piri, whom i would like to thank in particular for her efforts - including those of the shadow rapporteurs - and for the work she has done in general to achieve this result. thank you very much, i really do. i think that we should be able to say that the european union is not a party to the cyprus problem, but that it is a party to the cyprus problem. we are also expecting from switzerland some positive results so that we can get away from this problem which is plaguing all cypriots, although we do not yet have all the positive information we need. the turkish government has not yet taken any action to deal with the situation in cyprus. the greek cypriot side said it was ceding part of this piece taken by force to be placed under turkish cypriot administration; they'll have their own police, control their own municipalities, education, religion, etc. there will be federal police, they will participate in the central government in all systems of power, councils of ministers, upper house, at a ratio of 50% - much higher than 20% of the population. why can't it be solved? why is the cyprus problem not resolved by this solution, which is the perfect solution? because turkey does not want to leave cyprus. that is why you, the commissioners, the council representatives and the members of parliament, must exert all the influence you can on turkey to get its foot off the breast of the cypriots. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the question, mr president, should be: what kind of europe do we really want to have? but unfortunately, we don't learn from our tragic mistakes. 'do we want a europe whose policies are based on principles and values or a europe whose policies are based solely on economic interests?' it is hypocritical, if not destructive, to talk about upgrading the turkish-european union relationship when we are witnessing the unacceptable behaviour of turkey and the commission pretending that nothing is happening. i know very well that when you make a deal, both sides should win and you should get something in return. we have secured the withdrawal of occupation troops from a member state of the european union? have we secured the return of refugees and the ascertainment of the fate of the missing in cyprus? have we ensured the creation of conditions of democracy in turkey itself where those who think differently are imprisoned? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a party to the conflict, and it must not be allowed to continue to be a party to the conflict.
mr president, you all know, ladies and gentlemen, how undemocratic turkey is. however, the european union supports an undemocratic solution to the cyprus problem, which violates its principles and values and the charter of human rights, by continually giving turkey an alibi; because only such a solution is acceptable to turkey for the cyprus problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. do you accept european freedoms for turkish citizens specifically for cyprus ? and then, why not for the whole union? do you accept that cyprus should become a province of turkey ? do you accept guarantees from foreign countries in a member state of the european union? do you accept a solution which is incompatible with the european acquis and the charter of human rights? do you accept that ankara, through the settlers' veto, controls cyprus' attitude to the european union? you accept 18% of the population controlling 82% ? if you accept, the cypriot people will not accept. do not be surprised by a new thunderous "no" to an undemocratic project. the european union will not be without responsibility.
mr president, for a week now the president of the republic of cyprus, the president of a european country, a member of the european union, has been waging the ultimate struggle, the battle against the chinese wall of turkish intolerance, to rid a member of the european union of occupying troops, of unacceptable guarantees, to rid his country of occupation. in this endeavour we consider the support and assistance we require from the european union, from the european parliament, to be of the greatest importance. i call on all of you to join forces to rid european union territory of occupying troops, to put an end to turkish intransigence. until yesterday, mr çavuşoğlu was insisting in a provocative, unacceptable and insulting way to the european union itself that the turkish army would continue to remain in cyprus. it is time to send a clear and strong message, commissioner hahn, that the european union cannot accept occupying troops, that there can be no guarantees in a member state of the european union without the four fundamental freedoms being applied. i think it is unacceptable to discuss the upgrading of the customs union - essentially a reward for turkey for all that it does within itself and for what it does in cyprus - when this customs union is not being implemented and is not being realised. it is unacceptable, mr president, to say that we are continuing to provide accession aid to turkey when it is committing all these crimes against cyprus.
mr president, we welcome the calls in the report for turkey to begin withdrawing its occupation forces from cyprus, to support the work of the plo, to put an end to the settlement policy, to implement resolution 550 on the sandbox and the additional protocol, and to contribute constructively to the solution of the cyprus problem on the basis of a bi-regional bi-communal federation with one sovereignty, one nationality and an international personality. but we expect active support and call on the european union to put pressure now, at this time of the talks in switzerland, so that turkey contributes constructively and substantially to the solution of the cyprus problem, contributes to a fully demilitarised cyprus and ends the anachronistic system of guarantees. as regards the opening of negotiations on the upgrading of the customs union, such negotiations can only start once turkey has fully implemented all the obligations towards the union arising from the current customs union, including the recognition of the republic of cyprus. our position is clear: the european union is also committed to the development of the turkish economy, and the turkish cypriot community is committed to the development of the turkish economy.
mr president, this report sets out a number of turkey's commitments to the european union, including the additional protocol on the recognition of the republic of cyprus, as discussed by the european council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's a question we need to answer. and one more thing: if turkey is indeed a neo-sultan regime, the prediction is that every day that passes with this regime in power increases the human cost that will be paid for years by the people inside and the people outside turkey. and a word about cyprus. there are now talks in geneva focusing on security issues. the european union is also primarily concerned by this issue. the turkish government has not yet taken any action to prevent the turkish government from using its influence in the turkish cypriot community. this concerns all of us here in europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i should like to begin by thanking mr zorrinho for the good cooperation we have had. the initiative to promote free wifi in local communities is very important, but we need to ensure that it works for the benefit of citizens from all walks of life, achieving the maximum possible public benefit. we also have to make sure that it's free and there's no charge. our priority must also be to take advantage of wireless connectivity particularly in less developed countries and regions, islands and mountainous remote and hard-to-reach areas. we welcome these positive references which have been incorporated into the final text improving the commission's proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal to allocate the budget to the member states, as a rule, in the order of receipt of proposals, 'fist come, first served', is in our view wrong: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in conclusion, we ask the commission to take immediate action to ensure that all the member states and local authorities are sufficiently informed of the relevant conditions of the proposal and are sufficiently supported to start the application procedure immediately.
madam president, i consider it a happy coincidence and we are delighted that mariya gabriel is at the helm and at the head of the digital economy, with a strong will and determination, but also with the vision to realize the big and ambitious goals for the digital revolution and the digital economy of the european union. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the fact that 'wifi for you' exists today, essentially giving access to communities to have free access to wi-fi, is a step that we welcome and support. at the same time, however, there must be other measures to strengthen free access and the right of access for other citizens, both vulnerable groups and pensioners, and in remote areas.
mr president, we should like to congratulate our dear colleague mr buzek on his very important report, which is a useful guide and a guide for the coming years on energy matters. but i firmly believe that if we really want a proper, strong energy union and energy security, we must first of all rely on our own strengths. it has been said quite rightly before that it is not the intention that a third country should be the actual supplier of one third of the natural gas of the 28 member states of the european union. this is an insult to the european union itself. we must use our own powers. i, from my own experience, suggest we exploit the eastern mediterranean. cyprus has concluded tripartite agreements with israel and greece, and cyprus with egypt and greece, on energy matters, which the european union can use. the european union can also take advantage of the possibility for cyprus to invest in a liquefied natural gas terminal, which, due to its economic capacity, cyprus cannot do. the commissioner, you should invest 10 billion in eu funds so that not only cyprus and the region but the whole european union can achieve energy security and self-sufficiency, and not just for the eastern mediterranean but for all the regions where it is possible for the european union to invest directly in its energy security.
the question is "blue card". madam president, with all due respect to what has been said about turkey, i must say that the european parliament must at last send another clear message. turkey cannot in a provocative and unacceptable way occupy a member state of the european union and go to the talks to resolve the cyprus problem and demand that troops and guarantees remain in a member state of the european union. it is not possible for turkey to occupy cyprus, which is a full member of the european union, for 43 years and still not recognize the republic of cyprus. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the turkish government has not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the turkish government is able to fulfil its obligations under the treaty of rome.
mr president, commissioner, accession procedures, pre-accession financing and the deepening of the customs union are interrelated issues. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the customs union is not dismantled. on the other hand, the european union upgraded the customs union without turkey having fulfilled its obligations towards the republic of cyprus as it should have. i warned you, commissioner, many times about the consequences. the cypriot government, which did not react, is also responsible, as is the european union, which often puts economic interests above principles and values. with the customs union, erdogan is not obliged to democratize his country, while at the same time expanding his trade with the european union. that is why it is ruthlessly continuing its occupation of cyprus, why it is gradually imposing its conditions on the solution of the cyprus problem and why the solution will be rejected by the cypriot people because it would be unjust, racist, unbalanced and inhuman and would constitute a ticking time bomb on the foundations of the union. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, turkey continues to violate the human rights and fundamental freedoms of its people, persecute the kurds, silence journalists. it also continues to hold illegally and by force of arms a member state of the european union, cyprus. it is unacceptable to seek to upgrade the customs union when turkey has not yet fully implemented the obligations arising from the current union agreement by refusing to recognise the republic of cyprus. we call on the union to exert pressure on turkey to implement all its contractual obligations, to end the violation of human rights in the country, to return to the negotiating table for a solution to the kurdish question and to contribute constructively to the settlement of the cyprus problem. the only lever of pressure from the european union to get turkey to implement the above is to freeze the accession negotiations until turkey complies. it is the position which we adopted by an overwhelming majority as the european parliament in the resolution of the last plenary session in july.
mr president, human rights are being violated on a massive scale in turkey, which is illegally occupying the territory of cyprus, which is european union territory. the question is simple: what is it that makes sanctions the right choice for other cases but, in the case of turkey, should we reward it with trade relations, funds and credits? recently, negotiations to end the occupation of cyprus collapsed because of the turkish stance. the un secretary-general understands that a normal state, especially a state of the european union, cannot operate under the guarantees of turkey and turkish troops. i would like to ask you, commissioner, a simple question: if your country, a member state of the european union, were the victim of an invasion and occupation, would you accept turkey as an invader to be the guarantor of your country?
mr president, we must accept one thing about the union today: that it remains steadfast in continuing the same policies that have led to the impoverishment of the people, the dismantling of the welfare state and industrial relations, the deepening and institutionalisation of the neoliberal austerity and memorandum policies. the sixth scenario proposed by mr juncker therefore follows the same logic of widening social and regional disparities and leads to a multi-speed union, a union of the rich core and the poor periphery. the strengthening of military capital, through the defence fund, and of financial capital, through emu, the banking union and the proposal for a sub-ministry of finance, is continuing steadily. the policy of lack of solidarity with refugees continues: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. as leftists, we are in favour of overturning these policies of neoliberalism, inequality and poverty. we need more public investment to create decent jobs, we need a social europe of solidarity and peace, we need a europe which serves the interests of the people.
mr president, i really welcome the speech by the president of the european commission, mr juncker, because i think it is of historic value and importance, because it focuses on the core of the creation of the european union, which are its principles and values. we agree, mr juncker, that the european union must henceforth take account of freedom, equality and the rule of law. we will defend it with all our strength, because that is the way to prosperity and a strong european union. i think, however, that we should no longer show any tolerance or any concession to countries like turkey, which have shown that they have no respect for any principle or any value. as a european citizen, i can feel proud when i too enjoy my freedom, which i do not enjoy now, because i cannot return to the house where i was born, because it is denied to me by a country which violates human rights both within itself and in my own country. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union. the message is strong: a europe strong in principles and values and we will move forward together, dear president of the european commission.
in writing. you have expressed a desire for a europe of peace, which many of us share. in essence, you focused on the importance of applying the eu's basic rule of law to move forward, stressing that it is not an option but an obligation for all. i would add that the application of the rule of law throughout the eu is a fundamental issue for the existence of the eu because it concerns common values which must be fully respected. in the field of labour law, we welcome the announcement of the creation of a joint european supervisory authority to monitor the compliance of the member states with european legislation and in particular with court decisions in order to eliminate social dumping. but while we are talking about the application of the basic rules of law, judgments of the court of justice of the eu on fundamental human rights in the protection of private property and the punishment of offenders, are not applied in the occupied territory of cyprus but the occupation regime is rewarded. thousands of european citizens, including myself, are deprived of their ancestral home and land. the application of judgments in labour law is indeed important. but the implementation of the eu court of justice's judgments on the protection and enjoyment of private property is about the existence and future of the eu.
madam president, the creation of a market for gas supply with good dispersion and competition is a matter of security and stability strategy for the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the trade and agreements of the european union are a means by which we must export our own standards and, i would add, a means by which we must also seek to export our own values. we are also concerned about the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the project, and that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the project. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the need for other sources of supply such as in the exclusive economic zone of cyprus, in cooperation with both egypt and israel. keep in line.
madam president, the pkk is on the european union's list of terrorist organisations. that's respectful. but there is a recent decision of the belgian court of appeal, which ruled that the pkk is not a terrorist organization. i personally say clearly that i am not in a position to say what the character of this organization really is and i am against all terrorism, as any serious man should be. but i think that a revision of this position of the european union can lead, with the encouragement of the european union, to negotiations between the turkish state and the pkk, so that a solution can be found to the problem that is plaguing the country.
mr president, i think that the problem has been described very well by many colleagues and i shall not repeat anything. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial and technical resources are used to the full. i think you have a long way to go and you have to make that effort. i would like to conclude by saying, without taking up too much time, that the approach we have heard from the other side of the table regarding the increase in such marriages in the european union is wrong. it's an existing problem, but we're looking at it globally. we cannot have a different view of what is happening in africa, in asia and a different view of what is happening perhaps in the european union. the problem must be tackled in the same ways. we must take more urgent measures in the european union, but not put the burden on the fact that there is immigration. there is immigration, but we have better ways of dealing with the problem within the european union.
mr president, commissioner, our priorities and ambitions in our partnership with egypt must also serve our peoples on both sides of the mediterranean. development on the one hand, but also human rights, social justice and a decent life. economic development and technical assistance from the european union, but also demands for human rights and the rule of law. these go together in a balanced way. it is true that egypt has to show substantial progress in many areas, including human rights, but at the same time there are unanswered questions to be answered. but two challenges dominate our agenda: terrorism and energy security. i would therefore like to conclude by saying that the stability of the sisi government is fundamental to our common interests.
mr president, we are in agreement with the opening of channels of communication with egypt and we expect the same to be done with other countries in the region. but above all, we think that any economic or other relationship should be offered to the egyptian people themselves, with more weight on the vulnerable groups. we are particularly concerned about the demands of the young people of egypt for real democracy and freedom. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
mr president, the inaction shown so far has resulted in devastating hurricanes, increased energy poverty, further deforestation, irreversible pollution of the seas, and the continuing destruction of our planet. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the excessive use of fossil fuels. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the paris agreement has provided an important framework for tackling climate change. however, unfortunately, at the 22nd climate conference in marrakesh, there was not the progress we expected for immediate action. the 23rd bonn conference must not be another pointless repetition of declarations and crocodile tears about the state of the environment and the aggravation of environmental problems. in the run-up to this conference, we call on the commission, irrespective of the trump administration's intention to withdraw the us, to work with china and other states, support developing countries and develop a comprehensive action plan to end the wasteful use of natural resources, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote renewable energy sources.
mr. president, there's no point in any fight or any battle if we can't save the planet. but how can this ambitious goal be achieved if we cannot find a way to pressure the united states to change its attitude? what if we don't find ways, or we don't want to find ways, to deal with monsanto, the company that is subjugating the global food chain with actions that negatively affect the climate? we need policies that promote a change in the way the economy works that promotes the idea of overconsumption, and an end to the reckless use of the earth's natural resources.
mr president, commissioner, if we do not want to turn a blind eye, the problem with ryanair has existed for many, many years and there is a violation of basic labour rights not only of pilots but of many other workers. the question now is what action will the commission take to make good the damage suffered by some 400 000 people and what action will be taken to ensure that the company itself accepts its responsibilities. it is not possible for companies to work with this data for so many years and for us here to 'turn a blind eye' and just come and discuss a subject, spending even a little more time than the time allotted.
mr president, i must today denounce with all the strength of my soul the unacceptable, continuing, provocative and brutal actions of turkey against cyprus, a member state of the european union. mr timmermans knows, because he participated in the crans-montana negotiations, that turkey, with its unacceptable and provocative positions, has led to a deadlock in the cyprus negotiations by insisting on the retention of occupying troops, guarantees and unilateral interventionist powers in a member state of the european union. this provocative and unacceptable turkey with its occupation regime this morning imposed a ban on the passage of humanitarian aid for the heroic greeks trapped in the carpathians, imposing new deeds and policies of ethnic cleansing on cyprus. the european commission must react immediately, mr timmermans, as unficyp has done. i also call on the estonian presidency to bring this matter directly to the next european council to condemn turkey with sanctions. i still call with all my strength on my dear colleagues in the european parliament to vote against all those funds relating to turkey in order to send a strong message. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. (the president cut the speaker off) )
mr. president, once again immigration is monopolizing our conversation. the impoverishment to which large sections of the population have been driven by neoliberal austerity policies, together with the xenophobic rhetoric pursued by governments, is fertile ground for the far right, racism and xenophobia. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is not too late to finally implement a common asylum system, legal and safe migration routes and to oblige all member states to assume their responsibilities with equal burden-sharing. we must oppose the inhumane policies of militarization of the union's external and internal borders which, instead of strengthening the neighbouring countries, turn them into border guards. the solidarity of peoples is reflected in development policies, which must promote peace and mutual understanding. they are promoted through policies that promote social development, social justice for the benefit of people inside and outside the union.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i have listened very carefully to the comments made by the members of parliament. many of the comments were made about the situation in spain. i have taken careful note of all the comments, and i would like to refer those who put the questions and made the comments to the statement i will make on behalf of the commission later today in this plenary. now, going back to the agenda of the european council, it is clear to me that there is a strong convergence of views between the commission and the european parliament on such issues as the digital single market, the social pillar and tackling the enormous challenge of migration. let me reiterate that last week we put on the table a number of proposals in a holistic approach to the migration issue. there is not one silver bullet that will solve this challenge to europe and its societies. we can only be successful in managing the challenge of globalisation and migration in that framework if we are better at protecting our external borders; if we make agreements with countries of origin to offer prospects to people where they are instead of having people think they need to find a better future elsewhere; if we have agreements with the countries of transit; if we are more successful at combating human trafficking, at combating this terrible criminal activity on the backs of innocent people; but also if we understand that the dublin agreement was made at a time of different challenges and that now it needs to be adapted to the world of today and tomorrow. this means that the issue of solidarity cannot be avoided and must also be tackled in this framework. it is my firm belief that, although there are different emphases in different member states on parts of the package, the package as a whole is the only way forward. i count on the strong support of the european parliament to convince the leaders of the member states that this should be done now, with a sense of urgency, so that we can show europeans, before the next european elections, that europe is capable of answering their call that we should do better at managing migration and that we should do more for our collective security. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their comments and observations on the next european council meeting. i will convey them to the president of the european council, donald tusk, as it is he who sets the agenda of european council meetings. on the presidency’s behalf, i note that the reform of the common european asylum system was mentioned repeatedly during the debate. as first vice-president timmermans said, we should not lose sight of the fact that there are seven legislative proposals under this reform of the common european asylum system. good progress has been made on some of them, others are already in the negotiation phase between the council and parliament, but the reform of the dublin regulation remains controversial. it was rightly mentioned that some member states have not moved on this proposal, and i would add that this is the case with not just one but both extremes in this particular debate. estonia is doing what the presidency must do: we are in intense consultations with the member states. the estonian minister for the interior, at the ministers’ meeting next week, will present the state of play, and we are also looking for guidance from the european council meeting in two weeks’ time on that particular legislative proposal. the broader debate on the future of europe was discussed over dinner at the tallinn digital summit. president tusk’s conclusion was that, within two weeks, he will consult the heads of state and government of the eu member states and will then set out his way forward in this debate. last, but not least, i would like to thank all the members of this house for their comments on the digital single market and, more broadly, on the digital society. ms berès, mr kelam and others rightly brought out various aspects of the digital society. the debate is not only about the digital single market proposals, it is much broader, and the digital revolution affects us all. there was overwhelming agreement and a common understanding at the tallinn digital summit last week that all these aspects must be tackled by the european leaders. this, if you will, is indeed the spirit of tallinn.
in writing. it was said that we must deal with turkey with policies that recognize the difference between the erdoğan regime and democratic forces. that's right. it goes without saying that policies that strengthen the erdoğan regime and that it seeks to consolidate its power are wrong and should be avoided. can the supporters of upgrading turkey's customs union with the eu document how this policy weakens erdoğan? this morning, the erdoğan regime decided to withhold food and humanitarian aid that the republic of cyprus has been sending for decades - by mutual agreement through the un - to the few greek cypriots trapped in the occupied territories, whom turkey wants to expel. this is happening on eu territory, in cyprus, which turkey has occupied since 1974. with regard to the referendum in catalonia, the european union must protect spain's sovereignty, the rule of law and territorial integrity, as well as the constitutional order and unity of the country. only the people of spain as a whole can decide on any change in their own country through democratic procedures.
mr president, as has been stressed, the legal framework for the budgetary pact and the stability pact is very important, but only if it promotes convergence at the level of our real economies upwards. since the entry into force of the fiscal compact in january 2013 until now, the result in terms of real convergence of our economies has been disappointing. i will give specific examples, but i will stress that adjustments and changes are absolutely necessary to improve the real economy. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european network of national experts in the field of structural change. 'responsibility' refers to the rules. the commission should seek to correct macroeconomic surpluses, but this should be directed both at excessive deficits and excessive surpluses. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. those who want to remove access to the funds are acting against the rules governing their operation, the rules of solidarity and social cohesion. i would like to conclude by asking whether it is possible to get this far without a pan-european deposit guarantee.
in writing. the economic crisis has left permanent marks on the european labour market with a significant impact on the social fabric. both the european institutions and national governments have taken and are taking measures to reduce poverty and unemployment rates. this report on the guaranteed minimum income aims to provide practical guidance on how to simultaneously intervene to mitigate the social impact of the economic crisis and promote active policies aimed at creating jobs and ensuring sustainable growth. cyprus is already successfully implementing measures to support the minimum income guarantee with the aim of providing a social safety net for those at risk of poverty. by pooling and rationalising available resources, the government created an effective social safety net from the guaranteed minimum income, empowering thousands of cypriots in need who previously had no support from the state.
mr president, we were recently discussing the future of the european union and mr juncker announced the creation of a european monitoring authority to monitor the compliance of member states with european legislation and in particular the application of judicial decisions to eliminate social dumping, and he rightly announced it. however, i, mr president, want to raise a huge issue involving european decisions, european courts around fundamental issues such as the protection of private property, which is being violated in the occupied northern part of cyprus and european citizens, including myself, cannot enjoy our property, which is on the territory of the republic of cyprus, within the european union, but is under occupation by turkish troops. should the european union not protect the fundamental rights of european citizens in cyprus?
madam president, it has been said in this chamber that one of the problems of the european union is the need for unanimity. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already said that, and whether he is not in the chamber. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. using the example of the united states brings to mind this: have you ever heard utah, which is an oil-producing state, complain to georgia, which produces only peanuts? the cypriot president came here a few years ago and suffered the actual haircut of the cypriot economy imposed by the eurogroup and he went back saying: 'i came to brussels trustworthy and i returned untrustworthy'. today mr schäuble congratulates him on his decision at the time. the ruler congratulates the subject for complying with the instructions. the european union is not a party to the treaty of amsterdam, but it is a party to the treaty of amsterdam. the situation in the middle, the 'in limbo' situation between the european union and turkey is the worst. we have to be clean. either they move or we cut. the average situation sends them the message that we're working for them and we receive the message that we're working for them.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. this is the core of our existence in the european union. but at the last european council, turkey again passed through untouched. it is only planned to cut a few million, but at the same time we are providing it with several billion. mr juncker (who is not here but will be asked), are you still supporting the upgrading of turkey's customs union without it having fulfilled its european obligations, including the recognition of the republic of cyprus? that is a key question. mr tusk, in the council, in your own statement later, you said that you had heard the cypriot president's concerns about the new violations of the rights of the prisoners by turkey in cyprus. i ask you: i can hear anyone's concerns. what are you doing while the rule of law of the european union is being violated in the occupied part of cyprus?
madam president, dear friend, president of the european council, mr tusk, we are really pleased that you are emphasizing the european principles and values which are the foundations of the european union, and the strength of the european union is based on its principles. but turkey is in constant violation of these principles and values. there is one country, the republic of cyprus, which is a member of the european union, which is suffering from human rights violations, from threats from turkey. you know very well from the information from the president of the republic of cyprus that they have even banned the trapped from receiving humanitarian aid. turkey continues to provoke in all directions and we as the european union must defend our principles and values. and defending principles and values means that we must not accept and accept the blackmail and threats of turkey against any member country of the european union. we must not approve pre-accession funds for turkey and reward it. we must not upgrade its customs union and we must not open any chapter if turkey does not comply with these principles and values. we are glad that you and mr timmermans, who is here, are well aware that turkey bears the full responsibility for the latest attempt to resolve the cyprus problem, despite the efforts of the president of the republic of cyprus to resolve the cyprus problem.
mr president, the results of the summit unfortunately show that the official policy of the union continues to flout the declared principles of solidarity and to pursue policies which are contrary to the interests of the peoples. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. instead of giving practical support to the states receiving the largest waves of refugees, it is calling for the full implementation of the unacceptable reward agreement with turkey, which has already been given 2.9 billion euros. instead of supporting the neighbouring countries, it is seeking to become border guards. instead of proposing investments to promote the real economy, to develop social policies to combat poverty and to create new jobs, the council called for the acceleration of the process of further militarization of the union, the strengthening of the defence industry and the financing of the european defence fund. the proposals put forward will not only not benefit the peoples of europe, but will support new wars with disastrous consequences for the peoples and peoples of europe.
mr president, dear mr timmermans, you will agree with me that there is no democracy without a good economy. there is no rule of law with unemployment, with so many millions of europeans below the poverty line and in low-paid jobs. there is no rule of law when you can do nothing against states that behave so selfishly towards other member states. i am referring, of course, to poland and hungary, with their unacceptable attitude to immigration. you have proposed the creation of the institution of the minister of finance. but to whom will he answer? the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament. what will be its democratic legitimacy? what is the role of the european parliament vis-à-vis this man whom you are going to appoint?
mr president, first of all we should really thank and congratulate the co-rapporteurs, mr ashworth and mr siegfried mureșan, who have done an excellent job in trying to make the budget more humane, more social, more responsive to the expectations of the citizens, and this is the message that the european commission itself and the european council must take up. i think it is very important that this budget focuses on the development of small and mediumsized enterprises, on the employment of young people, on creating momentum and growth particularly in small countries which do not have the same access and the same opportunity as the large countries and have the opportunity and the possibility to raise funds and capital from the budget. the european union's own principles and values do not allow me to vote for a single euro for turkey. the european union is not a country that is always violating and degrading its principles and values, and it is constantly insulting the european union itself. the european council has already made it clear that it is not possible to accept the idea of a single euro for the financing of turkey in any way. a country that violates human rights, owns my country, a member of the european union, violates principles and values. it does not intend to solve the cyprus problem without retaining occupying troops, guarantees and interventionist rights, it openly provokes, it has even blocked humanitarian aid to turkey. and here i must point out that we cannot, at the same time as we are giving nearly 150 million to the turkish cypriots, consent to the fact that aid to our trapped people is being obstructed. and i really want to invite all my dear colleagues to send the message that the european union is strong and no turkey can blackmail it, no turkey can really have such unacceptable behaviour. and one last point: the european defence and security chapter is important, we support it, we support the european army, because only in this way will the european union be shielded and provide security and guarantees to all the member states of the european union and to my own country, which is under great threat from turkey.
mr president, if i may, i would like to begin by making an appeal to the representatives of the european people's party, not to say an objection. they come here every year and advocate an increase in funding and then when they go to the debates that follow, they support what they disagree with here. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. it always does. we cannot go to the polls and do something different from what we are supporting here. secondly, mr oettinger, i want a clear answer to the following: you have left a hint about the attempted reduction of funds to turkey, and i am referring to funds relating to the accession process. you specifically said 'i understand the issue of funds to turkey'. that, i realize, has me wondering. do you agree or do you have a different opinion? and i'm not talking about the funds that deal with refugees. i am referring to the funds for the accession process. i want to know if you're actually opposed to this or not.
mr president, in this budget there are funds for which the rapporteurs deserve congratulations, for example, for growth, employment, security and the management of migration, and particularly for youth unemployment, which remains a scourge in europe, and we hope that there will be no cuts when we move to the next stage of the negotiations. however, ladies and gentlemen, and i am also addressing the commission, i am struck by the invention of arguments in favour of continuing the funds for turkey and for erdogan. i am struck by the fact that, while we all know erdogan's behaviour, we continue to reward them. we know turkey's behaviour both within the country and in the member state called the republic of cyprus, and towards greece. i would like to ask you, mr president, how do we decide which countries to sanction and which to reward, as we are doing in turkey today?
mr president, as long as wars, imperialist policies of intervention, poverty, the infringement of the right of peoples to sovereignty over their natural resources and the effects of climate change continue to be the responsibility of the union, more and more people will be forced to migrate. those you call illegal immigrants are people who were forced to leave their homes to become victims of traffickers in the mediterranean, to save their children. as long as the union continues to treat them as criminals, it will only strengthen the far-right movements and increase the traffickers' circles. how many more refugees must die helplessly before the union's xenophobic racist approaches stop? the continuing tragedy makes it all the more urgent that the union should undertake a radical overhaul of its migration policy, that is to say, that the causes of migration and refugees should be tackled. we must abolish or immediately withdraw the unacceptable refugee exchange agreement with turkey, increase humanitarian aid, abolish dublin ii, create safe and legal pathways and establish a network for the redistribution and resettlement of refugees.
mr. president, congratulations on your name day. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr chrysogonous, on his report, which inevitably includes compromises, but i particularly welcome the fact that it refers to the rights of european citizens, which are being violated by the economic crisis. the rule of law is the supreme interest of european citizens. the application of the rule of law is primarily the responsibility of the european commission, and this is not a theoretical question, it is a practical one. decisions of courts of the european union, of the court of justice of the european union, concerning fundamental rights are violated and are not applied in cyprus. european directives on unlawful practices and banking clauses are not applied in the same consistent way across the european union. the european union, in the light of the treaty of lisbon, must be an area of freedom, security and justice. that's the vision, that's what unites us.
mr. president, i would like to inform you and the house that turkey and the occupying regime continue to prohibit the delivery of humanitarian aid to my heroic trapped compatriots, who for 43 years have refused to leave their land and homes. it is an unacceptable, open and provocative act which violates human rights, the treaty signed under the third vienna convention and every principle of international and european law. it is unthinkable today, in 2017, that the european union should continue to support with pre-accession aid and other facilities this country which respects no authority inside and outside turkey. we must take the initiative and send a clear and unambiguous message: the european parliament cannot tolerate behaviour such as that of turkey, which violates principles and values, which violates european principles and our ideals.
mr president, there is no doubt that christianity has been subject to persecution and indeed genocide throughout history. but it is unthinkable and unacceptable that such genocides as are taking place in the middle east should be taking place today. i am conveying to you what we greek cypriots have been experiencing for 43 years. we are experiencing a different kind of persecution and destruction of every christian element by the barbaric turkey that has invaded cyprus for 43 years, razed every church, every christian monument and expelled 200,000 greek christians. the turkish people have a history of genocide against christians, and they bear the sole responsibility for the genocide of the pontic, armenian, greek, ionian and ionian peoples of istanbul. the european union has already made a major contribution to the development of turkey's economy. if we really want to send a strong message to all those who directly or indirectly persecute christians and commit genocide, the european union must not cooperate with and provide no funding to countries which to this day do not respect christian culture, do not respect christian monuments and do not respect the christian faith. this must start first with a member state of the european union, cyprus, which is suffering all these really terrible consequences of persecution by turkey.
mr president, anyone who knows a little bit of world history knows that, in all the past, wherever there has been no democracy and at the same time there has been a strong central authority, minorities have been oppressed. today this is happening to the detriment of christian minorities. i have already mentioned this too many times and i will not repeat what i have said. but i will add something about israel in connection with bethlehem, a substantially christian city that has been invaded by over 100,000 settlers, who are essentially driving palestinian christians out. i would also like to mention cyprus, mr vella, in addition to what has been said by my colleague, mr christophoros, who is also from cyprus. please visit sandbox, a european city, four hours away by plane. go see this ghost town that's been occupied for 43 years, with 200 churches idle for 43 years. why does not a member of the european parliament get up and go and see this european city? in sum, of course, all christians have been expelled from the occupied areas of cyprus and hundreds of churches have been converted into shrines for many decades.
mr president, mr vella, the fact that christians are persecuted is a reality and a modern phenomenon that we all live with. the question is whether what we say in public here is the same as what we say in private. i have to tell you, as a member of the european parliament for three and a half years, that there is unfortunately a great deal of hypocrisy; we say things in public and things behind closed doors. the example of cyprus has already been mentioned by my colleagues, and we belong to different political groups, from the epp to the gue. the great hypocrisy, then, begins with the european union. there is a member state of the european union where the overwhelming majority - the christian people - have been eliminated. he is not even allowed to visit his homes and properties in the turkish-occupied part of cyprus, and the best living example is right in front of you. the suspect was born in the province of cyrene and lived through the invasion of 74. but i'm here and i'm going to close by saying this: that i will never accept this hypocrisy in the name of political correctness. christians have the same rights as any other human being, especially within the european union.
mr president, i think the rapporteur, whom i congratulate, has put the matter very well. it is clear that there is an ageing population in europe, but i think the issue has been very well identified in relation to the diversification of the population from urban to agricultural areas. and it's very important to keep the population in the villages, to keep it in the countryside. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if the source, which is the countryside, is lost, then we will be faced with much more acute problems. the density of population moving to the cities is a huge problem and the only way to deal with it is through cohesion policy to encourage people to stay in their homes, in their villages, in the countryside.
mr president, the numerous concerns expressed by the european parliament in its resolution on the green paper on retail financial services have still not been addressed by the commission. for example, there is no coherent solution to the puzzling practices faced by consumers when making atm withdrawals involving currency conversion and no solution that enables the consumer, including in practice, to fully understand and control the situation. with this in mind, the commission should accelerate its work to promote the mutual recognition and interoperability of digital identification techniques, without affecting the level of security of existing systems or their ability to meet the requirements of the european union's framework on combating money laundering.
mr president, i shall be making a report on lebanon. we are all aware of what has been going on there in recent weeks; there is a very great danger of seeing a new war start, equivalent to the war we saw in syria. that is why i think the commission should act, speak to mrs mogherini and see how we can prevent a new outbreak of disaster in this country and in the whole region. imagine a war with hezbollah, iran, saudi arabia, and i don't know who else they'll get involved with. the european union must not this time be caught off guard and try to find solutions to the humanitarian problem that will arise. i ask you to act with all the means at your disposal so that this great danger, this great opportunity, can be contained by diplomatic means.
in writing. congratulations to the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs on the report on cooperation between member states in consumer protection. the illegal and unfair practices used by companies harm consumers and distort healthy and fair competition. the improvement of legislation in line with changing circumstances is necessary. however, there is already significant legal protection for consumers, which is not effectively implemented across the eu. in some countries there has been an economic and social cost, with despair and despair, as european citizens place their expectations for protection in the eu. in particular, i would like to note the introduction in the report of the concepts of 'widespread infringement' and 'widespread infringement with a union dimension'. the systematic and massive use of illegal and abusive terms and practices by the banking system in several member states, and in particular in cyprus, has been a widespread infringement with a european dimension, which is a case in point. the abusive behaviour of the banks and, at the same time, the ineffective implementation of european legislation to eliminate abusive terms and practices contributed decisively to the economic disaster that peaked in 2013, the terrible effects of which are still being felt by a large part of the population in cyprus and which demand justice. the effective implementation of the legislation would have prevented the problem.
madam president, mr timmermans, malta is rightly the focus of attention, there is no doubt about that, but i think the issue unfortunately goes beyond the borders of this country. we live in an age of plunging into people who are super-rich, while millions of people are below the poverty line. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i said that it goes far beyond the borders of malta and let me refer to a spiegel article where, after evaluating thousands of pages of documents, it refers to the reprehensible tactics of famous companies and speaks of virtual subsidiaries and branches of companies such as the famous and well-known bmw, bosch, basf, deutsche vank and puma that are based in malta. as spiegel reveals, many of them are not even listed in the phone book, nor do they have staff, and three of them share the same bell. we must concentrate on specific rules to break down - if possible - this system of tax evasion, gangsterism and crime.
mr president, we are opposed in principle to the public statements and actions of the president of the united states which are disrupting and undermining the most just cooperation between states. there are a few things that need to be done right away. increase pressure on the united states to comply with the climate change protocol and, secondly, consider referring the us to the committee on arbitration, as the us position amounts to a disguised subsidy for its domestic industry, which is not in line with wto rules. finally, a prompt solution is needed to the issue of the copyright agreement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what is happening today is that weak states, in order to defend themselves, prefer to make bilateral agreements rather than being in the wto cooperation.
mr president, there are a few things that need to be specifically noted. the six countries, which together with the european union wish to strengthen their relations, should take this into account and combine it with the necessary political balances with the region and russia. three of the six eastern countries, ukraine, georgia and moldova, are pushing hard for closer ties, while azerbaijan, accused by brussels of human rights abuses, has maintained a neutral stance. armenia and belarus are leaning more towards russia. thirdly, everything must be geared to development in the context of peace and sustainable development, and this cannot be achieved either by a spirit of confrontation or, of course, by strengthening the oligarchs in some of these states. the fight against corruption should be a cornerstone of any cooperation of the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. weak economies are unfortunately obliged to engage in dumping to support their economies, but we cannot in any case support the actions of countries such as china to use state structures as a vehicle for imposing tariffs. on the other hand, we are in favour of the european union countries being able to support certain sectors of their economy, as long as this is beneficial for sustainable development and does not create an unfair advantage. finally, the addition of the fact that the countries exporting the products comply with the rules of the international labour organisation and with environmental standards is a positive one.
mr president, amnesty international is warning that 2017 will be the deadliest year for migrants in the mediterranean. the inhumane conditions faced by refugees in the aegean islands hotspots confirm the failure of the union. the member states must stop rejecting refugees in violation of the fundamental principles of the union and at the same time reinforce the forces of xenophobia and racism. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of refugees, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat it. we therefore call for the dublin ii agreement to be abolished, for the refugee exchange agreement with turkey to be withdrawn immediately, for a common legal asylum system based on practical solidarity to be established, for legal and safe routes to be established, for a permanent, binding and fair system of relocation of refugees to be established, and for sanctions to be finally imposed on member states which persist in not taking their responsibilities. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children and the protection of the right to family reunification.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, today's debate has been decided to be held to discuss topical and urgent subjects of concern to the peoples of europe. the epp, in our view, is provoking an ideological debate in order to distract from the real problems that are plaguing the peoples. today in the european union the people are impoverished, the welfare state is being dismantled, we are being driven into social and economic dumping and democratic and labour rights are being abolished, leading to mass unemployment, poverty, the lack of real democracy. the refugee management, the neoliberal austerity policies and the militarization show more than ever the militaristic, xenophobic, racist and anti-worker face of the union. at the same time, the rise of the far right, neo-fascists and hitler-nostalgia is haunting europe and clearly shows that the monster of fascism is being reborn. the october revolution is a world-historical event that changed the course of history in the 20th century. it has overturned the rotten capitalist system and unleashed enormous productive forces for growth. it opened the way to the peoples' anti-colonial struggles and played a leading role in crushing hitlerite fascism. above all, it showed that a society that can secure the future of workers by providing them with housing, education and health care is possible. how can it create a new type of international relations based on peace and solidarity and not on wars and imperialist interventions. the left is inspired by... (the president interrupts)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, this report is yet another implicit admission by this parliament that the enormous increase in social inequalities is the result of neoliberal austerity policies. we therefore welcome the intention of the report to improve both working and social conditions and to strengthen the social welfare state and social protection. the proposals for universal access to health, education and social services, on the basis of the ilo proposals, are very encouraging. as a group of the european united left in this parliament, we stand by our positions and believe that to really combat inequalities we need a change of course from surprise and austerity policies, a fair redistribution of wealth, strengthening of the welfare state, guaranteeing all workers' rights at work. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
madam president, we really must give credit and congratulate the rapporteur-general for the budget, mr mureşan, who - together with the rest of the budget group - has made important achievements in this budget. it has succeeded in shifting the budget towards a social direction and in getting additional funds for young people, for our farmers, for development, innovation and erasmus. it should not be lost sight of the fact that this budget of 160 billion euros is financed by the taxpayers, who demand that every euro of the budget be directed to all those actions which demand respect for the principles and values of the european union. we cannot imagine financing countries which do not respect the principles and values of the european union and which, on the contrary, in every way offend against all these principles and the value system of the european union. i think it is an important step that there have been cuts in turkey. i would like to remind you that turkey is the constant offender, which daily insults the positions and principles of the european parliament. i would remind you that turkey is the country which is violating human rights within its own country, but it is also violating human rights in a member state of the european union: the republic of cyprus. it does not recognise the republic of cyprus, it maintains occupation troops, it has suspended talks despite the efforts of the president of the republic of cyprus, and it is inconceivable to us that this country should be financed with even one euro. i am not going to approve and vote for a single euro for countries like turkey, which violate the principles and values of the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission's third report on the state of the energy union, madam president, commissioner, makes a very strong statement that the policies being promoted are solving energy problems and are bringing about growth. the figures in the report itself confirm that the energy bottlenecks and energy shortages that are plaguing the union are still present. many member states and regions of the union are still isolated in terms of energy networks. there are serious problems in the energy supply, and much more needs to be done to promote the objectives, which are not yet as ambitious as the european parliament wants, for renewable energy sources, to strengthen energy isolation and, of course, to combat climate change. the only thing that has been achieved so far is to promote the concentration of power for energy policy in the hands of the commission, to the detriment of the sovereign rights of the people. the commission's failure to present a comprehensive plan to combat energy poverty, which affects over 50 million people, is particularly worrying. equally serious is the commission's failure to exploit domestic energy sources to enhance energy supply and security and to reduce the union's energy dependence. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, i believe that the european energy union is the cornerstone for the european union to be able to respond to energy challenges and energy needs. the european union cannot respond unless it realises that the energy union is indispensable, and there can be no energy union unless we support and finance energy projects which meet the basic objectives of creating conditions for energy self-sufficiency in the european union, for easy supply and for the european union itself to meet its energy needs. there are regions in the european union which can really support this ambitious objective. one of these areas is the eastern mediterranean, where the republic of cyprus, a member state of the european union, can offer both the geographical space and the ideal location for the establishment of a natural gas liquefaction terminal, but also for the exploitation of natural gas reserves for the benefit of the european union. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
the energy union is of strategic importance for the survival and competitiveness of the european union, and we have often criticised the commission. but this time i commend the steps taken, in particular, by commissioner cañete. there are serious problems. one of these concerns the isolation of island member states and the need for a dispersed supply of clean energy. in the eastern mediterranean, however, cyprus is currently working with european union member states and non-eu states such as egypt and israel on plans that serve the european union and the wider region. think how we'll be if egypt of 100 million is destabilized. the commissioner, please follow the same line and keep us informed of developments with the quartet in cyprus next week.
mr president, two weeks have passed and the situation remains tragic after the deadly floods in the western attica. the dramatic toll is 23 dead and major or total destruction to over 1,500 buildings, while schools and kindergartens remain closed. the residents of the area, despite all their efforts to return to normalcy, are facing tons of mud, as well as the cold and damage to their homes and small businesses. this cannot be the picture of 21st century greece and, of course, there is no time to shift the heavy responsibility for this disaster. the european union must demonstrate its solidarity with greece and its citizens in the best possible way by immediately mobilizing european funds. it is important to mobilise resources directly to deal with disasters in the western atlantic, as was the case with the earthquakes in italy. the commission should also review the damage threshold of 1,5% of regional gdp for the eligibility of regional natural disasters from the solidarity fund. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are living in times of extreme weather events and the member states of the european union must take appropriate action to protect the lives and interests of their citizens. we expect public investment and immediate implementation of flood protection projects. unfortunately, in recent years europe has suffered greatly from natural disasters as a result of climate change. we must stop mourning the victims of natural disasters and do more, providing solidarity and assistance, by improving risk assessment mechanisms, prevention systems and means of combating these phenomena.
the report by mr de gucht, which i am very pleased to see, is a very good report, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support it. because if there is one thing we are proud of as part of the european union and as europeans, it is that the european union is the foundation of equality, of the elimination of discrimination and of support for all those people who really need our support. culture for us here in the european union means that all these people have exactly the same opportunities and the same freedom as all european citizens. it means access to education and employment, and absolute and unlimited equality in all areas, which must be ensured by specific projects and actions of the european parliament and of the european union. i therefore consider it particularly important that the european union should finance and give practical support to all these actions and activities. we must introduce the european disability card, introduce a guaranteed minimum income for disabled people in all the member states and send a really strong message that we are actually there for those who really need our support.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. the third report by the commission on european citizenship coincides with the 25th anniversary of the idea of european citizenship being put forward. discrimination of all kinds is a major issue in citizens' reports: discrimination on grounds of gender, nationality, sexual orientation, language, ethnic origin. there are significant problems facing disabled people in their daily lives, in the workplace, in access to medical care, in education, in the european disability card and in matters relating to the implementation of the marrakesh treaty in the european union. the requirement for european union citizens to exercise their voting rights even when residing in another european member state is a frequently reported issue, so we should ensure that every citizen has the right to vote in whatever european union country he resides in. freedom of movement is one of the great achievements of the european union, as it gives citizens the right to travel, study, do business, work and live in harmony in other countries of the european union. in recent years, however, there has been an increasing number of reports relating to the problems faced by citizens in the european union with regard to their rights to free movement. we must find solutions without further delay, because this is not just a matter of exercising the rights of citizens guaranteed by the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, but is directly linked to the image of the union itself and its acceptance by citizens, because it touches the core of their interests, it concerns their daily lives. the socialist group, taking seriously the above issues which concern every european citizen, has contributed to the effective and functional report that has been produced. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year.
mr president, we are absolutely in favour of fighting tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering. but nobody can justify, in the name of fighting tax evasion, leveling tax competition in the european union, leveling the ability of the member states to exercise and determine their tax policy, which is their sovereign right and one of the basic elements of a free economy, unless we want to return the european union to illiberal, closed, centralised economies. we cannot ourselves try to exclude the european union from financial assets, to prevent it from attracting businesses, to prevent it from attracting investment, and at the same time impose high tax rates which will kill small and mediumsized enterprises. we say yes to fair tax competition, no to unfair tax competition. but, commissioner, i think it was wrong of you to ask for a majority on tax policy decisions. there are other non-serious issues here and lower-power issues... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, almost everyone here is against tax evasion and tax avoidance. but i think, ladies and gentlemen, that we are not all honest and you will see that in the votes when we see what our colleagues in the european people's party are going to vote. there, when we get to the moment of decision, things take a different turn. it has been said, and rightly so, that tax evasion is another tax evasion. tax evasion is legal. it is here that the european parliament must act, so that this thing is abolished or the restrictions of the law are introduced. there's a third issue: the billions lost through tax evasion and avoidance - one might very well say - would flow into the economy, but beyond that there are the trillions parked in tax havens which could also flow into the european economy and be more properly distributed in favour of the social rights of citizens. i would like to conclude by saying that we must fight tax evasion and tax avoidance, but we must also take account of the specific features of the economic industries of the member states.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a truly admirable work, which helps all the member states of the european union. i think it is very important to mention, especially on the occasion of the presence of commissioner katainen, that it is particularly important that this new initiative, by extending the project and also by revising it, should also focus on small countries. it seems that the small countries did not have the tools and the means to be able to stand up and make concrete proposals. if there has really been such a huge response to this project, given that for the first time in the european union more than 535,000 smes are going to benefit, it is a challenge for my own country, cyprus, to have it put to use. i think that the management and administration of the european strategic investment action plan should take initiatives to help my country, which has the capacity to develop energy infrastructure, has the capacity to really support small and mediumsized enterprises, which are in a difficult position, but much more, because there was a report by mr katainen, an important report in finland, that there were also social projects and social programmes, i think that a country like cyprus, which has a refugee population of 200,000, can with this project support refugees in cyprus for housing, reintegration, development and give a strong message and that this is not just a project for large projects and for small and mediumsized enterprises but for social infrastructure and social projects.
mr president, the tragic situation in afghanistan has been adequately described by many colleagues and by all. constant tension, clan warfare, refugees, poverty and corruption. de-escalation can only come about by de-escalation of the military presence. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. we must look a little bit wider to solve the problem as far as we can. pakistan is the country where members of terrorist organizations find refuge and, for the most part, safety. we must look at this country and take action if we want to see an improvement in the situation. finally, the war against the opium trade is key to any normalisation in the country.
mr president, the situation of the rohingya is tragic. it's a living hell. it's been described by all the co-workers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i note the phrase "rapidly moving from childhood to adulthood" for five-year-olds, who are forced to protect their younger siblings. it is our moral, not our political, duty to defend these people. but i have a couple of questions, mrs mogherini: you said you agreed, and i would like to know some more details of this agreement between myanmar and bangladesh. finally, i would like to know what mrs aung san suu kyi, whom we have honoured in this european parliament for her struggle for freedom, said exactly. i don't think it'll solve the problem if we give her something back, but she certainly has to defend the rights of the people of her country.
madam president, mrs mogherini, 25 member states have signed the joint declaration known as pesco. purpose: to improve cooperation at european level and to give it a european dimension. the member states can maintain their own defence and exercise their sovereignty better through european cooperation, through synergies and savings of resources, which will certainly improve the effectiveness of defence and, by extension, foreign policy. of course, as the european union we have challenges and risks, such as securing our external borders, energy security, terrorism and many others. for all of these things, we can work together and have results so that we're all better off. for those of you who report to nato, i'll make a very simple comparison: if member states cooperate within nato, i am sure they can also cooperate better within the european union.
in writing. who can deny that the member states need a good defence? the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. but is pesco anything other than the development of yet another war industry? i am particularly concerned about mrs mogherini's statement that 'europe must finally become a global player'. but what does that mean ? if it's to deal with external threats, fine. but is it so that the eu can also bomb those who are being bombed by others? i would like to conclude by stressing that we do not agree with so-called pacifism in an era of conflict and threats, but that does not at all lead me to believe in militarism and in solving problems through the tools of the devil. can we ever speak with one voice and in one direction? in support of moral values? can we be a force for peace? that is the great question.
mr president, the iran deal must be supported and implemented. there is no possibility of renegotiation. such a prospect would bring far greater dangers than he wants to avoid. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all those who have been arrested in connection with the terrorist attacks in iran. i would like to conclude by stressing, ladies and gentlemen, that the danger of a nuclear holocaust is present and is being exacerbated by the actions of north korea, and that the european union should immediately take an international initiative on nuclear disarmament.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, we condemn in the strongest terms the decision of the united states to recognize jerusalem as the capital of israel. this decision only serves to perpetuate the occupation of palestine and political instability in the wider middle east and provokes a new round of bloodshed with deaths and thousands of wounded, mainly civilians and children. the status of jerusalem is a central issue for a comprehensive solution to the palestinian problem. the position of the international community is that east jerusalem should be the capital of an independent palestinian state. the decision of the united states to move its embassy to jerusalem reveals its open imperialist aggression against the palestinian people and its complete collusion with the occupying state of israel. it ignores the legitimate rights of the palestinian people and the need for an independent, sovereign, viable palestinian state on the 1967 borders with east jerusalem as its capital. resolution 181 of 1947 of the un general assembly established the special international status for jerusalem. also, un security council resolution 478 states that all legislative and administrative measures and actions taken by israel as an occupying power that have altered or attempted to alter the character and status of jerusalem are null and void, never enacted, and must be lifted immediately. but the occupying israel continues today with its systematic expansion of illegal settlements, illegal demolitions of farms, schools and homes and the expulsion of palestinians from east jerusalem. at the same time, it continues with criminal impunity the flagrant violations of the human rights of the palestinians, of international law and of all un resolutions, which provide for the withdrawal of the occupying troops from all the territories. the european union, through its policy of equal distance, mrs mogherini, bears the heaviest responsibility for the continuing israeli crimes against the palestinian people. we welcome the positive attitude of the european union and the member states, but the european union must take drastic measures, demand compliance from israel and recognise the palestinian state.
madam president, mr barnier, i have a very specific question: in cyprus there are large military zones owned and controlled by the united kingdom in which thousands of european citizens, either cypriot european citizens or citizens of other member states, live. i would like to know what the future holds for these european citizens, what the conditions under which they will continue to live and what their rights and obligations will be. but because we are about to receive the sakharov prize, it gives me an opportunity to mention a monument to human dignity and i do not want to diminish those we are awarding today. from turkish prisons a man in prison sends a message that we all need to hear is demirtaş, who in his statement concludes with the following: in the erdogan regime you don't answer questions, because there is no justice in turkey.
mr president, the social services in cyprus, commissioner, but also in other member states are collapsing. cyprus is probably the only country in the european union without a national health system. hospitals and doctors and hospital staff are unable to cope with the big problems. elderly people wait up to ten months for a life-critical examination. while the memorandum in cyprus is being implemented to the letter, its only element with a social dimension, which is the national health system, is failing despite the efforts of both my party and the minister of health. what about the pensions? the other day we had a group of visitors from cyprus and i was embarrassed on behalf of all of us when an elderly lady told me that she was living on a 300 euro pension and had to pay for food, shelter and medicine. how can i go out there and defend your point of view and tell the people of my country that the european union is defending their social rights?
mr president, however ideological and other differences we may have in this chamber, however different our readings of history, we must be able to agree on one fundamental point, precisely where all the peoples of the world were united in 1945: that fascism, the ideology which wants to hierarchise people and nations into superior and inferior, is alien and hostile to human civilization; that this ideology is not another view within democracy, which we should tolerate; the european union is not a political entity, but rather the ideological cloak of the concentration camps, the gas chambers, the holocaust and the holocaust. it is not only the history of these symbols that is criminal; it is their very ideology that is criminal. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the union. only in the museums and history books is there a place for them, so that the younger generations of europe can learn how much pain, hatred and blood they have brought with them, so that they can envision and build their future on the uncompromising common denominator of democracy, freedom and peace. so we must put these symbols where they belong, in memory of the dead, in defense of the living.
