mr president, i think we all expect the maltese presidency to make migration a priority. mr. prime minister, you spoke of the need to re-apply the agreement with turkey, which means also ending human trafficking. of course we agree. in this context, you mentioned safe corridors for refugees from africa to europe. i must point out that the agreement with turkey does not include such corridors. mr. prime minister, i would like to urge you to make the priority not to resettle refugees, but to stop violence and wars so that people do not have to flee to europe. i would also like to draw your attention to another area that you want to seriously address, namely the recommendation on the european qualifications framework and the europass proposal. the member states need more time to apply and we will talk about this in the plenary.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the maltese presidency's programme includes among its priorities a chapter on the internal market, which it considers to be the union's greatest asset. the presidency's objective in the field of the internal market is not only to improve but also to complete the discussion of key legislation already under discussion in the council and the european parliament. among such provisions is undoubtedly the revision of the regulation on cooperation between consumer protection authorities. as rapporteur for this legislative act, i would like to emphasise its importance in enhancing the exploitation of the potential of the single market, setting fair rules and a high level of consumer protection. given the large volume of work carried out by the slovak presidency in the council, i believe that the ambition of the current presidency can be more than the informed adoption of the council's common position. we are working hard in the european parliament to be ready to work for a final agreement between the two institutions under the maltese presidency. it has been more than a year since the european commission presented the european accessibility act, which aims to make goods and services more accessible to people with disabilities. despite the complexity of this proposal, i believe that intensive discussions will take place in both institutions and that member states will be able to meet their obligations under the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in terms of accessibility, which the proposed directive will help them to do.
madam president, i have carefully read the conclusions of the council meeting, especially on migration, security and defence, and i can see that we are making progress. the progress is obviously not sufficient; there are lot of things to do, the crisis is not over – but there is progress. what should be on our to-do list? we should still take better control of our external borders and make sure that we properly identify the people who are crossing them. we should reform the european asylum system and make a list of safe countries in order to simplify asylum procedures. obviously, we must look for external partners, because not everything can be solved here, and preference should be given to solutions outside the european union. i very much appreciate what was said about defence. most countries must increase their expenditure on defence, not simply to spend money, but to increase our ability to defend ourselves and also be a valid and responsible partner in nato for countries that are members of nato, rather than having a free ride. let me say a few words on the economy: i very much appreciate the commission winter package. it should be considered as a package, and not as separate proposals. only if they are addressed together can they bring benefits to the economy and our citizens. last but not least, let me mention that i appreciate the council’s efforts to find a solution with regard to the ukraine treaty. in ukraine, a lot of people are hoping for a better life, and we should help them.
the question posed by the blue card. i was going to ask your colleague where he got the information he was talking about. it's true that in the czech republic there are great frosts. true, in the czech republic too, we have homeless people, people who have no roof over their heads. but it's also true that we have unused capacity in the shelters, and unfortunately they haven't sought shelter, so we know about individual deaths from frostbite. but we also know that social assistance was provided for these people, unfortunately these exceptional cases happened. i was surprised by the information you provided here.
i see we're surprised again. in 2014/2015, we were surprised by a big wave of illegal refugees, illegal migrants. today we are surprised that the hotspots in the greek islands do not have decent conditions for people who need help in conditions that were not expected on these islands. it is clear that europe is still not ready, it does not foresee the situations that may arise. i agree that we need to work together on this. one state can't solve this. that is why i also appreciate the commission's approach, the commissioner's report, that there are funds. i just want to ask. so what did we not do yesterday to avoid facing the huge humanitarian crisis that is on these islands today? you said yourself we have to help today. we've been overlooking something. we need to know what it was so we can be better prepared for the next event.
i agree that we should guarantee fundamental rights, including social rights, at the level of the european union and help the member states to develop good social policies, to reduce unemployment. the commissioner has very rightly said that employment and social security policy remains entirely in the hands of the member states, and we will respect that. the report repeatedly mentions the european welfare state model. i must point out that there is no such thing. we have 28 social policies that are based on three models of welfare state according to their historical and political development. the social and wage convergence we want across european countries cannot be achieved by central regulation and new directives, but only by economic growth, political stability and greater efficiency. if we are to build a pillar of social rights, we must build it on a solid foundation and acceptance of all countries. have we learned from brexit?
in writing. the european pillar of social rights has been described in thousands of pages in various contexts across the eu. especially in the last decade, there is so much material that it is difficult to even monitor, let alone enforce. the ep's report on this subject, which is currently under discussion, therefore contains 71 references to various conventions, charters and studies right from the outset. perhaps the oldest of these, the schuman declaration of 9 may 1950, already called for 'equalising and improving the living conditions of workers'. sadly, the 1950 declaration mentioned above, as well as a number of others that followed, has not been fulfilled, and it seems that there is no chance of its fulfillment in the near future under this system. leading economists around the world are warning of an accelerating slicing of the scales between an ever-narrower group of the richest owners and a rapidly expanding majority of those living on the brink of social misery. the report thus shows the huge disparities between the creation of good conditions for the free movement of capital and social conditions in the eu countries. their vast differences, despite their declared efforts, not only fail to diminish but, in many areas, actually increase. the only solution is obviously systemic change, but that is what the parties of the authentic left are striving for.
in writing. article 2 of the so-called treaty of lisbon, amending the treaty on european union and the treaty establishing the european community (2007/c 306/01), stipulates that combating social exclusion and promoting social justice, cohesion and solidarity is one of the main tasks of the european union. i would like to contrast these goals with the shocking results of a recent report by the international charity oxfam, which focuses on the unequal distribution of wealth around the world, including in the european union. yes, even on our continent there is a very dangerous spread of scissors between the rich and the poor, which right-wing governments are very well able to help. they thus keep europe in an unbalanced state, impeding the improvement of working and living conditions for all, and thus also contribute to an unhealthy political aggravation. our group of socialists and democrats is fighting for upward social convergence, for raising social standards that are truly 21st century. we are fighting for a better european economic governance, a stronger european social fund, a minimum income for europeans, protection against the negative effects of globalisation resulting in collective redundancies, protection for all children at risk of poverty and education. i therefore support a strong european pillar of social rights, which is part of the concept of a social europe. we do not need a complicated europe whose existence is based on secret right-wing agreements and services to multinational companies. we need a transparent european union that focuses primarily on the needs of its citizens.
for the ppe group. one aspect of this case is religious freedom. this must not be limited, for example, by the existence of blasphemy laws, which can be used not only against expressions of religious belief but also more broadly against the exercise of freedom of expression. the european union should therefore urge the indonesian government to promote religious tolerance in its country and to defend human rights. the european union should therefore also follow the recommendation of the european parliament to the council of june 2013 recommending that the provision of development aid be conditional on respect for freedom of religion. the european union has provided at least half a billion euros to indonesia over the past 10 years and the continuation of this assistance should therefore be conditional on respect for the human rights of all indonesians, without distinction of religion or origin.
in writing. today we discussed the human rights situation in indonesia. indonesia is the world's fourth most populous country, the third largest democracy, the largest muslim-majority country, with millions of adherents of other religions, and a diverse society of 255 million people of various ethnicities, languages, and cultures. the draft resolution states that we highly value the eu-indonesia relations. the eu and indonesia cooperate closely on a wide range of issues. the eu and indonesia have agreed to implement concrete cooperation projects in a range of areas, including access to justice and criminal law policy, countering violent extremism and business law. we also express our concern at the growing intolerance towards ethnic, religious and sexual minorities in indonesia and condemn all acts of violence against minorities and the persecution and intimidation of them, and the impunity of those who commit such acts.
author. violence and human rights violations against the population continue to occur in the central african republic, despite the efforts of the central african government and the international military mission minusca. they have long been trying to improve the tragic situation there, and i am therefore pleased that all the groups agreed on the text of this resolution. not only are dozens of innocent civilians, including children, being killed, but we also see frequent raids on military convoys. and that shows nothing but continued instability in this country. it is also necessary to call on the local authorities to ensure that all perpetrators are punished and to build a stable and fair justice system. only then can the overall situation in the central african republic improve. the european union's task is not only to highlight the ongoing problems but also to continue its role as a major donor of humanitarian aid that helps the poorest people in the second poorest country in the world. this also requires the willingness of the central african republic government. a willingness to finally end the suffering of its citizens, a willingness to restore order, and last but not least, a willingness to ensure that all human rights are guaranteed, without exception.
i congratulate you on your re-election and would like to comment on the report that i also signed. the situation in the central african republic is very serious and this report is addressed to the central african republic government, the united nations and the european commission. civilians are dying in this country and human rights are not protected. in its report, the european parliament welcomes the efforts of the car government, with the help of the international forces, to calm the situation and protect civilians, but these efforts are not sufficiently successful. there is great violence, insecurity, and hundreds of thousands of refugees in neighboring countries. these refugees are obviously looking for safety. the european union is also concerned because some of these refugees may also be refugees seeking to reach europe. the european union supports financial stability in the central african republic and we support the government of that country.
author. – madam president, i need to say that we do not always focus on the right urgencies or the most flagrant cases. sometimes we even slip up and focus on a country which is making progress and we are more critical than in other cases. but this is the right case. if we look closely into the situation in burundi, there is hardly a worse case. i am glad that this time we managed to have a good text in the resolution. we found the right language, we seek to tackle impunity and we seek sanctions. may i draw your attention to the fact that, in a country where we see death, torture and rape used as a weapon, targeted violence against women with thousands of people being killed, displaced, etc., i am glad to see that we have a paragraph which calls on the un security council and the international criminal court (icc) to quickly open a full investigation into alleged human rights violations in burundi, including the danger of genocide within its jurisdiction committed during the recent crisis in the country. i think that this is something that we need to state very clearly. finally, i welcome that we are focusing on the targeted sanctions adopted by the eu on 1 october 2015, consistent with the decision taken by the african union. this is the language that we need to have the courage to use. we cannot be passive, we need to address it and that has to be a strong signal.
it is a fact that the president of burundi has not respected the agreements reached, even withdrawing from the statute of the international criminal court. he is committing genocide, he is oppressing his people, i think we need to send a clear message to mr. president of burundi that even if he moves to the moon, his actions will be subject to retrospective review and at the very least he will be criminally responsible. i think it is important that we here today send a message to the people of burundi who are striving for its democratic revival that our aid will be targeted, that we will insist on sanctions against this regime and that we will support those who are persecuted today by this regime. i think that should be the main message of today's debate, otherwise i support the draft report that has been tabled.
i supported this proposal because i consider that a smoothly functioning logistics and related infrastructure is very important for regional development and economic growth in the eu in general. i think the importance of freight transport is very much illustrated by the fact that more than 11 million people are employed in this sector in all eu member states. i therefore consider it very important that such reports be presented to the plenary to further develop the sector, but at the same time i would also like to see the reports being a little more specific and not just general statements. one of the more specific arguments for my support of the report was the mention of independent scientific studies which will examine, among other things, the impact of transport on the environment and the means by which air pollution could be reduced. so that's the direction i'd like to go in.
i was unable to support the resolution on the european pillar of social rights in the final vote. i voted in favour of those proposals which sought to adapt this report so as not to interfere with subsidiarity and the powers of the member states. i am in favour of a sensible social policy, of guaranteeing social rights at european level, but not of interfering with the rights of the member states. the ep resolution goes beyond the bounds of this. i am glad that we managed to drop the requirement for a minimum wage in the vote, but unfortunately other amendments were not adopted and i consider a proposal such as the eu-level child guarantee to be very unrealistic. that's why i couldn't support the resolution as a whole.
i could not support this draft report for many reasons. first, in general, i think that it is precisely the wealth or power of a society that is to be seen as a measure of whether it can afford a certain level of social protection. the eu, while generally considered to be a place where wealth is fairly well defined and measurable, on the other hand has very clear differences within its own space and for this reason too it would be far more appropriate to leave this level of social rights to the member states. i could not agree with the attempt to create a european framework for unemployment or minimum income support or to strengthen the first pillar of pensions at the expense of the others. there are a number of controversial points in the report which have not been sufficiently clarified, and for these reasons i could not support the report even for breach of the principle of subsidiarity .
i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the visa problem in connection with the implementation of the union customs code because i support the effort to achieve harmonisation of the procedural rules of the customs administration of the member states. i consider this to be necessary to achieve the objective of the customs union, which is, in particular, a common eu approach towards third countries in the collection of customs duties and controls on the entry of goods from third countries into the eu market. i also welcome this initiative to strengthen cooperation between the customs administrations of the member states as well as the full electronicisation of customs systems, which i consider essential in modern times. i also consider it necessary to reduce the administrative burden, which is a particular obstacle for smes. unlike european regulation of social rights, this process of harmonisation is on the spot.
i also supported this proposal because it deals with a problem which is really serious. i am referring to the customs rules and procedures in customs procedures which are very complex and which are currently particularly disadvantageous for smes. their simplification, the removal of administrative burdens and their electronicisation are therefore highly desirable, as this report calls for. i also want to stress that the customs union is the cornerstone of the eu and that its effective establishment is therefore important for the proper functioning of the internal market that we are striving for here. for these reasons too, i very much welcome similar reports which aim to improve and make more efficient the functioning of the basic building blocks and pillars on which the eu is built, and the customs union certainly belongs there.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the alde group read the data economy package from last week with great interest and hope. i have to say that there is one important item missing in your package. where is the ban on localisation requirements within the eu? where is the ban, madam commissioner? it is wrong to allow member states to force companies to hold data in one member state instead of another member state. all member states are equal. all european data is governed by the same set of principles and the same data protection rules. that is why we have adopted a general data protection regulation. a regulation, not a directive. it should not matter if a server is in helsinki or lisbon or prague. every european should know that their data is safe, throughout the european union. companies must be free to use digital infrastructure anywhere in europe. we have seen a number of countries outside the european union adopting data localisation laws for both economic and anti-democratic reasons: to spy, to censor, to demand money from companies. these rules can often endanger citizens more than protect them. the free flow of data must be regarded as the fifth freedom of the single market in europe and the alde group therefore says ‘no’ to data localisation laws. you have rightly said that you want to remove the barriers in the digital single market. yes, i agree, we want a fully functioning digital single market, but data localisation is a barrier to making it happen.
ladies and gentlemen, i welcome this exchange of information in the ep with the commission on the very topic of building the data economy. as already mentioned, this market has great potential for growth, for employment. i appreciate the commission's efforts to remove barriers to the collection, dissemination and trade of data. this is precisely the issue that cannot be effectively decided by member states alone, but must also be worked on together with the european commission to build a digital single market. the safeguarding of privacy in electronic communications must also be the most important and integral part of those measures. i therefore welcome the european commission's initiative in this area. skype, g-mail, facebook, whatsapp, these are the everyday tools we use now, and we need to have the security of secure communication in the future. thank you, commissioner, for introducing this initiative.
mr president, commissioner, it is now two years since the commission launched the energy union with great fanfare. from the beginning, i was very skeptical about the fulfillment of the great visions in the documentary. and the reality of my doubts is confirmed the electricity grid we urgently need is not being built, nor is a common backbone infrastructure apparently in the pipeline. the electricity market is still broken, the joint purchase of natural gas is not working, and i could go on and on. but in the legislative field, we're swamped with a thousand pages of the new winter energy package. it seems that the european energy union is just about making stacks of paper. and to the very discussion of documents related to the energy union. in my view, documents such as the ets, the esf, lulucf should be discussed together with the current winter energy package, given that they are closely linked. the council is failing to do so and the commission seems to be planning to discuss the governance of the energy union first, which i think needs to be discussed at a later stage. what i am most interested in is that the citizens of the european union have money to pay for energy, and that is not being addressed at all, only that occasionally someone mentions that something like this exists and that it is simply a problem. i think we should move from paper to practical action, that would be more positive.
mr vice-president of the commission, i consider the winter energy package to be the most important piece of material that has been presented recently. it is very important that the resulting legislation is reasonable and contains technically achievable objectives. the eight legislative proposals therefore need to be approached with great caution and not just with the ambition to make changes at any cost. energy infrastructure has been built up in the eu for 150 years and is an essential part of everyone's life. all need to be lit and heated at affordable market prices and therefore there is no way to jeopardise the operation of the energy system. i am pleased that the commission is making such an effort towards the energy union. the european union needs energy efficiency. i believe that if we take the path of modern technology with an emphasis on safety, we can really improve the entire energy system. but it is not possible to change this system only from the top down, without supporting the competitive environment, which is the biggest driver of new technologies.
mr president, i regard the winter package as a major step in setting up a new energy framework in europe. as commissioner šefčovič said, this is the biggest reform of europe's energy sector since the introduction of centralised systems. i consider that the proposals contained in it are the right response to the changing nature of the european energy sector and to the new requirements for market organisation. however, i do see some flaws in this package. first of all, the energy efficiency directive, which does not reflect much of what parliament has been pointing out in recent years. for example, article 7, which in its present form i consider to be inadequate, still allows for the loopholes and exceptions that were adopted in the past. i would like to see a much larger share of low-carbon sources in the energy mix, and all of this will be emphasised by our group in the debate on this package.
in writing. i thank vice-president šefčovič for presenting the second state of the energy union report to the european parliament on the same day as its publication. this report shows three key things. first, it brings the good news that the modernisation of the eu economy and the transition to a low-carbon economy are becoming a reality. the second is the role of renewable energy. for the first time in history, it is cost-competitive with fossil fuels, and sometimes even cheaper. it employs more than one million people across europe, attracts more investment than many other sectors, and has reduced our fossil fuel imports by €16 billion. but it is essential to maintain this trend. the third point is the approval of the paris agreement and its subsequent rapid ratification, thanks in part to the role of the slovak presidency. in the present circumstances, this agreement will need to be defended and enforced even more vigorously. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union's energy efficiency and climate change objectives, including the implementation of the energy union's climate and energy policy. as commissioner šefčovič pointed out in his speech, the energy union is not just about energy and climate. remember, its purpose is to accelerate the fundamental modernisation of the entire european economy to be low-carbon and energy and resource-efficient.
mr. chairman, the civil war in sudan is a war to be continued. for 40 years, south sudan's black christians waged a war of liberation against the khartoum regime. i was living in south sudan at the time. i've been studying the symbiosis of war and famine that has developed into a humanitarian catastrophe, with 300,000 people dead, over a million displaced. the christian sudan became independent. then in 2013, another war broke out, this time between the people of south sudan themselves. the khartoum regime has not come to terms with the loss of south sudan. the continued attacks on christians are proof of this. it should be recalled that at the end of january, czech citizen, christian missionary petr jašek, and sudanese pastors hassan abduraheem taour and abdulmon abdumaw were sentenced to 20 years in prison. i trust the khartoum delegation will understand the devastation of the sectarian conflict and grant the condemned a pardon.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, this has been a very useful exchange and i thank the honourable members for their contributions and interventions. the people of south sudan have suffered immensely over the past six years. the lives of much of the population continue to hang in the balance, threatened by brutal violence, famine and destitution. the european union will continue to deploy all the instruments available – political pressure, sanctions, humanitarian relief, development assistance, support for international justice – with a view to encouraging the parties to replace conflict with dialogue, in the hope of securing a better future for south sudan.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, the democratic republic of congo and gabon are two countries in the central african region that are experiencing serious political challenges related to the electoral process. as you know, our relationship is based on the principles and essential elements of the cotonou agreement and especially respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. and, of course, we support the implementation of the african charter on elections, democracy and governance. the stability of gabon and the democratic republic of congo is of primary interest to the european union, but genuine peace, stability and development do not come through enforced preservation of the status quo and repression of opposition voices. on the democratic republic of congo, the european union considers that the political agreement signed on 31 december last year represents important progress, with remarkable mediation done by drc catholic bishops. the challenge now is to implement and to do it quickly. it is imperative that the transition period towards elections be as short as possible. in order to achieve this, the bishops should not be left alone and the european union will actively seek the engagement of the region, as well as the united nations, in pushing congolese political actors to implement the agreement. a new government reflecting the inclusive support for the agreement must be in place as soon as possible. the drc parliament will have a loaded agenda in its march session with the legislative acts necessary to move ahead with elections and the institutionalisation of the comité national de suivi, the oversight body that will also watch over the independence of the electoral commission. the electoral commission will then produce an electoral calendar that will reflect the urgency for holding elections and utmost care for the costs of the operation in a country that is experiencing a severe fiscal crisis and is failing to provide essential services to its population. the european union is ready to support this process politically and operationally, providing expertise when required to both national and international actors involved. the resolution of the security council that will be renewing the mandate of monusco in march 2017, will be an important step in establishing a global consensus around the political agreement. this is important, as the legitimacy of president kabila no longer rests on the constitution alone, but on inclusive political support for the agreement. the european union imposed restrictive measures in december. the warning given in the eu council conclusions of 23 may 2016 still stands. individuals responsible for violence and those trying to obstruct a solution to the crisis in the drc will be targeted. we shall exert vigilance on the human rights situation, on fundamental freedoms, including freedom of expression, and we are dedicating increased resources to that effect. let me now address gabon. the electoral violence following the presidential elections of 27 august last year and climate of fear, repression and intimidation that followed and continues today, is an issue of great concern. arbitrary arrests, long-term detentions, inhuman conditions and excessive restrictions of freedom of expression, assembly and manifestation are alarming. grave human rights violations, including alleged torture, extra—judicial killings and disappearances, call for an independent investigation without any delay. we strongly encourage an independent inquiry in gabon to conduct a quick fact-finding mission. we also welcome the initiatives by the gabonese government, the opposition and civil society to request a preliminary inquiry into the post—electoral violence from the international criminal court. the european union has also activated the human rights defenders mechanism to protect civil society activists in gabon whose personal security was at risk. we cannot disregard the conduct of the elections. the conclusions of the eu election observation mission were clear. they do not allow us to turn the page and to carry on with ‘business as usual’. eu relations with gabon have been reassessed and the gabonese government was invited to an intensified political dialogue with the european union. the dialogue aims to accompany the government in their announced electoral and institutional reforms, based on the election observation mission’s recommendations and to shed light on the human rights violations. we expect the government to recognise its best interest to engage in this constructive diplomatic exercise in order to avoid further consequences. some of them are mentioned in the draft resolution before this house, such as individual measures, a review of our development cooperation or consultation under article 96 of the cotonou agreement. in concluding, let me express my gratitude both for the debates and for the resolutions of the european parliament, which reassure us in our firm diplomatic and development actions, and for your participation in the eu electoral mission. let me thank in particular the chief observer, the honourable member, mariya gabriel, for her dedication and courage.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, 2016 was in fact a dark year for the sub-saharan part of africa. while we saw some positive developments in the western part, such as elections and transitions of power, we have mentioned today some of the countries – and i could add more – that have gone through a very violent period. what lies ahead of us are more elections in 2007. there will be presidential elections in angola and people will go to the polls in kenya, liberia, rwanda, somalia, sierra leone, etc. all these elections represent a real challenge for the continent and for the international community, which means of course for the european union as well. i must say that, if nothing substantial is done, we will be having the same debate in a few months from now. so the issue is that there is a role to play – with an appropriate political role for the africans themselves – for the african union, the international community and the european union. commissioner, i appreciate that you have highlighted the repression, the sanctions, the monitoring and all the instruments that we have. you also highlighted one element which i would like to dwell on in a little more detail, which is that we do have human rights defenders, independent social media and vibrant communities in civil society. so our task is to provide them with the necessary support on time and in time. we must have this twofold ambition.
in writing. in the context of the debate on human rights today, we have dealt with the difficult political situation in the democratic republic of congo and gabon, both of which are experiencing a period of political instability and violence, particularly in connection with the presidential elections in both countries. in both countries, street demonstrations broke out simultaneously and were violently suppressed, resulting in a number of deaths. the authorities there cracked down on opposition members and civil society who expressed disagreement with the current government. in the framework of the european parliament's joint resolution, we express regret at the loss of human lives, deep concern at the increasingly unstable situation in both countries and urge the relevant authorities to respect their international obligations, guarantee human rights and strictly observe the rule of law.
mr president, we all consider erasmus+ to be a very successful programme, contributing to improving quality in education, in employment and also in building a european identity. i'm not afraid to use the word "europeanism" here. all those who benefit from this programme are asking us to continue the programme, to develop it, to increase the budget, to simplify administration as well. we have all that in our report, and i would like to thank first of all my colleague mr zver for his very detailed report. after less than three years, i have to say that the erasmus+ brand has meant visibility and simplified communication. everyone knows that it will be a place of mobility and partnership for all groups, from teachers to students to volunteers and athletes. we still have requirements for improvement. the 40% budget increase for this period is excellent, but we will need more to make it even more successful and also to make it more efficient, so it is necessary to simplify the administration, for example by simplifying the programme manual. erasmus+ should also contribute more to improving language skills, with pre-departure preparation. we also want to strengthen the volunteer programme, the solidarity corps being prepared should not be a competition but rather a complement to this successful volunteer programme. the promotion of entrepreneurship education should also continue and the mobility of teachers should be a mandatory part of their career development. thank you, commissioner, for your dedication to this programme and i wish you all the best for the next 30 years.
mr president, i would like to thank my colleague, mr takkula, for presenting this report. in particular, i welcome proposals to increase the accessibility of sport to all sections of the population. as he mentioned, lack of physical activity is the fourth leading cause of death worldwide, and according to the same organization, one-third of children aged six to nine in the european union were obese in 2010. that's some pretty alarming news, i think. of course, physical activity, encouraging physical education and sport are essential conditions for us to do something about this negative development. i agree that it is primarily the member states who are responsible for promoting sport, but at european level we are sending a signal that the european union supports sport as a tool to combat the development of socially pathological phenomena, to combat these phenomena and also to improve the health of the population.
mr president, commissioner, the european union is founded on respect for human rights, for the dignity of every individual, and we must constantly make it clear that these are not mere phrases, but values which we will defend when necessary. i would like to point out one case of violation of the rights of citizens of the european union. this is the case of czech aid worker petr ježek, who was sentenced this weekend to more than 20 years in prison on trumped-up charges of anti-state activities and espionage. considering the conditions in sudanese prisons, such a punishment is practically equivalent to the death penalty. europe as a whole must unite and put enough pressure on sudan to free petr ježek as soon as possible. the rights of european union citizens are inalienable and their infringement must be defended across the european union.
mr president, i would like to openly declare my support for granting a visa-free regime to the georgian people. i have met many georgians, especially young georgians, and i am happy to observe their enthusiasm and dedication to the idea of bringing their country closer to the eu. they feel that european roots are an essential part of their identity and i believe that the georgian nation does indeed deserve to have a european future one day. however, in these difficult times, we need to pragmatic and look well at the reasons why we should support georgia. one such reason is the increasingly tense security situation in the black sea region. georgia is strategically important, not just as a transit country but also as the only pro-western littoral state along the eastern shores of the black sea.
mr. chairman, i support the abolition of short-stay visas for georgia. this country is an important partner and is also seeking to join nato. georgia has fulfilled all the conditions, and as the commissioner has said here, the european commission will continue to monitor the fulfilment of the conditions for visa-free travel to continue. we have adopted a visa-free suspension mechanism, so there is no need to worry that in the event of a large increase in migrants or a large increase in asylum applications, we cannot stop visa-free travel. georgia has been through a very difficult period and i think we can congratulate the georgians on achieving their goals, it's an important signal to them that it's worth fighting and continuing to reform. i would like to see the same progress and the same success in visa liberalisation with ukraine.
for the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, the problem of crossborder recognition of adoption is one of those problems whose solution helps to make life easier for eu citizens. the mobility of european citizens is a fact that needs to be recognised today and rules need to be created to make it easier, rather than more difficult, to exercise freedom of movement within the eu. if we are today speaking out for the recognition of individual adoption decisions throughout the union, we are not creating a europe from above, but we are responding to an already existing reality, to the constantly growing personal ties between europeans, to the emerging european demos. a mechanism that allows for the crossborder recognition of adoption decisions without interfering with national rules governing the birth of an adoption is a measure that eu citizens expect from the eu. so i thank my colleagues from juri, but first of all i thank the rapporteur, tadeusz zwiefko, for his excellent report.
mr president, commissioner, we are dealing with the issue of cross-border aspects of adoption. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his excellent work and expressing my full support for him. at present, there are no european provisions for the recognition of national adoption decisions. this creates considerable problems for european families who have moved to another member state after adopting a child. as a doctor, i am convinced that the home environment creates the best possible conditions for a child's healthy development, and no other environment can ever fully replace the family. the bond that develops through adoption is a full-fledged replacement for the family relationship, legally, psychologically, and socially. i hope we can remove the barriers to the cross-border aspects of adoption and at the same time reduce the number of children who are left in state institutions.
madam president, i have decided to support the european parliament's resolution on an integrated approach to sport policy because, like my colleague mr dzhambazki, i see it as a call to promote sport and also to protect sport from its abuse, from business. it's an appeal to the fair play aspect. professional sports, and not only football, but also other sports, are faced with negative phenomena such as corruption, match-fixing, doping, poor management of sports clubs or abuse of athletes, for example in the form of third-party ownership of players. i agree with mrs pospisil that we need to consider what legislative instruments we will use, but in any case these phenomena must be fought to maintain a positive image of professional and amateur competitions, so that sport remains sport, especially fair play.
madam president, i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation on crossborder aspects of adoption, which proposes to introduce automatic recognition of national adoption decisions issued in one member state by another member state. such a rule would allow the recognition of a decision of a court or other competent authority on adoption issued in another member state. however, it does not in any way interfere with national adoption rules. i think it is important to mention this as the real reason why i supported this draft report. i personally do not agree with children being given to registered partners for adoption, but i am convinced that this draft report is not about that decision and does not interfere with national legislation which fully determines the conditions of adoption within its scope.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to comment on the vote on this point. the production of bananas is an important part of the agricultural production of some eu member states and creates a significant number of jobs in this sector. this is why we must also strive to preserve european banana production. i therefore voted in favour of the report on the draft regulation amending the regulation implementing the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas between the eu, on the one hand, and colombia and peru, and the central african states, on the other. in view of the extension of the preferential tariff rates for trade in bananas to ecuador, i welcome the extension of the safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism to ecuador. i also agree with the commission's obligation to monitor compliance with the fixed volume of banana imports and to inform the european parliament if there is a threat of serious disturbance on this market.
mr. chairman, you can't change such serious questions at the beginning of the agenda. if we were going to have this debate, we should have been warned in advance. and i think this debate is quite serious. and it's not possible to change it here in a way that we're just clicking here and always saying we're going to have a debate on a different topic. i am fundamentally against and i want us to vote against changing the name of this agenda item because i think that to propose this change up here is very, very inappropriate.
author. madam president, commissioner, i would like to begin by thanking all my colleagues, the co-authors of the resolution, for the excellent cooperation, all my colleagues in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for their support. this resolution passed the committee by a large majority. i also thank the commissioner for taking part in the debate today in person, and i believe that his presence will be a great asset to our subject. pesticide use affects all of us. this is a problem that is getting a lot of attention today, i would say, in the european public, and rightly so, because in 2014 alone, according to eurostat, over 395,000 tons of active chemicals used in conventional plant protection products were sold in the european union. not the drugs themselves, but the 395,000 tons of active ingredients, that's what you have to remember. of course, pesticides are primarily designed to kill plant or animal pests. little wonder, then, that they are all poisonous. worse, they are also, in many cases, carcinogenic and often capable of harming human health and human reproduction. unwanted pesticide residues are now found everywhere in europe. in water, in soil and consequently, of course, in our own food chain. and this chemical cocktail is being exposed to and very little resistance is being developed by certain groups of the population, especially pregnant women, children and adolescents. nobody - not even me - will argue that european farmers must be competitive, but nobody - and i trust nobody - will argue that this must not be at the expense of the health of the european population. it is therefore clear that the most dangerous substances need to be regulated and phased out, while offering alternative tools to agricultural production. the agricultural sector can and must have a full range of tools available under the integrated plant protection system, including low-risk plant protection products. but our progress in this area is unfortunately too slow. this debate and the proposed resolution therefore focus specifically on one type of low-risk pesticide, namely biological pesticides, which can provide a functional alternative to conventional plant protection products and can contribute to achieving sustainable and efficient agriculture. in theory, these pesticides are already part of eu legislation and should be given priority by this legislation, but unfortunately this seems to be the case only on paper. as far as i know, there are currently only seven active substances approved in the european union as low-risk substances, and six of them are biological active substances. the long process of pre-market approval and registration creates a major economic barrier for manufacturers. we believe that there is a need to increase the availability of such low-risk pesticides, and in particular of those of biological origin, in the union. the resolution also appeals to the member states, of course, because under regulation (ec) no 1107/2009, active substances are approved at union level, but it should be borne in mind that the authorisation of plant protection products containing these active substances is already a matter for the member states. and member states should incorporate the use of low-risk pesticides of biological origin into their national action plans for the protection of the environment and human health at a much higher intensity than they currently do. the draft resolution calls for the wider use of various instruments, including biological pesticides, in line with the principles of integrated pest management. the resolution also emphasises, of course, that consumer demand for safe food that is affordable and produced in a sustainable way must be met. the obstacles to accelerated assessment, authorisation and registration of low-risk pesticides of biological origin are known. we know that the situation should change as soon as possible and the proposal therefore calls on the commission to present a concrete legislative proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 beyond the refit review by the end of 2018. i am aware of your positive role in this area, commissioner, and would therefore like to hear your answer to the following questions: what legislative and non-legislative measures is the commission currently considering or adopting to increase the availability of low-risk biological pesticides? what measures does the commission intend to take in the future and what is the possible timetable for these measures? thank you in advance for your reply and i look forward to today's debate on low-risk biological pesticides.
mr president, i agree that our priority in development aid is to fight poverty and fight for the dignity of human life. of course, we are looking primarily at africa, where the european union is investing most of its development resources. there are 19 of the 21 countries with the highest fertility rates, and yet in these countries, governments are not always stable, some of these governments do not respect human rights, and if i look at the resolutions of the european parliament, many of our resolutions on urgent issues deal with these african countries. so i say, let's support economic development, health care, education, which is essential in these countries, so that people don't have to leave their homes, but let's remind these governments that they have a responsibility to the citizens of their country. unfortunately, even in this report, the call for sexual and reproductive health rights was pushed as if other health care were less important.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, first of all, let me thank not only the rapporteur, mr duncan, but all my colleagues in particular, because although the negotiations were very long, sometimes quite silent, i think they were very concrete and substantive in the end, and we showed that we can work together when it is a good thing. however, we are now at a critical juncture. i will not go into the pros and cons of this document. we all knew after the vote in the envi committee that the text adopted would probably not fully satisfy either camp. on the one hand, we have a series of great measures that will lead to an increase in the price of the allowance and to a reduction in co2 emissions, like the new lrf, an increase in the flow into the msr, the reduction of 800 million allowances, etc. on the other hand, measures to protect the potential growth of industrial production in the eu or exemptions from the application of a correction factor for sectors most at risk of carbon leakage. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. each side had to retreat somewhere. but i am afraid that we are not in a position to revise this balanced agreement from the envi committee in plenary in any way now and here. politics is simply the art of the possible. and a strong mandate in the council will only give us a strong mandate from the plenary. as a birthday present, i would like my colleague to receive this strong and solid tower without anyone pulling any bones out of it.
madam president, the purpose of competition rules is to ensure a level playing field for businesses, regardless of their size or the marketing capacity with which they reach voters. i have long asked, through various activities, whether consumers' expectations are met in the case of dual quality products, and how their decision-making is determined by the brand under which, however, a different product is produced. i therefore hope that the european parliament will endorse the provision which repeatedly calls on the commission to determine whether this practice has a negative impact on local producers, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, and whether it leads to discrimination between consumers as a result of the supply of inferior products. we first called for a proper investigation by the commission four years ago. even the commission itself, after years, is now timidly admitting that dual quality may be an unfair practice and therefore contrary to eu legislation. i therefore consider amendment no 5 by the ppe group, which calls into question the effects of dual quality on the final consumer, to be totally unacceptable and i call for it to be rejected.
madam president, i would like to apologise in particular to mrs basterrechea, because i am unable to support her report this time. i think there's more ideology than expertise. we should approach mental health care and clinical research from a purely medical and professional perspective, not from a gender ideology perspective. in addition, the report extends this concept to other non-relevant groups, calling in particular for the accessibility of abortion and recommending that member states promote the practice of abortion without regard to the right of doctors and health professionals to make decisions according to their conscience. unfortunately, this is a very unfortunate message and i hope it will not be accepted.
madam president, this report contains a number of good recommendations in terms of improving the status of women, their rights, their economic independence and, last but not least, the fight against violence against women. unfortunately, women are still the victims of perhaps the most widespread form of human rights violation in the world, and this fact should also be taken into account in asylum seekers. experience from many parts of the world shows that women can play a significant role in resolving conflicts and wars, and that their participation in decision-making processes is beneficial even in the poorest countries. what i cannot agree with in the report is the imperative call to guarantee universal access to sexual and reproductive health. it is sad that the report exploits a factual error regarding the beijing platform. it called only for the fight against sexually transmitted diseases and for greater awareness and responsibility on the part of women in sexual matters.
madam president, tomorrow we will be discussing the future of the european union in this very place. when i read the proposals seeking to find a way out of the current structural crisis, i felt that we were again completely forgetting those whom the european project is supposed to serve, our citizens. all too often the eu resolves its problems through force and withdrawal, and we, as directly elected representatives, must call on the commission in the document under discussion to act in a transparent and accountable way towards eu citizens. how is this not at the very heart of how the commission works? we criticise the commission for not having organised a proper public consultation and we must reiterate the importance of reviving the various forms of involvement of civil society and social partners. if the commission were able to take these small steps, we would not have to debate the big ones tomorrow. i thank my colleague for the prepared report.
madam president, protecting whistleblowers who risk their careers is in the interest of society as a whole, both at the level of the european union and the member states. i therefore agree with the call in this report to propose and recommend that member states address legislation at national level to protect whistleblowers. the question, as the report also states, is whether a new independent european body should be created to protect whistleblowers. i think it is premature to use the institutions we already have at european level, such as olaf. in any event, this is a very complex area of legislation, where a balance must be struck between protecting workers who are not afraid to stand up to their superiors, but also taking into account that there may be reports that are false. in any case, it is a good initiative and i shall be voting in favour of the report.
madam president, parliament approved the establishment of frontex a few years ago and its purpose was to help the member states to protect their borders, to coordinate border protection and to coordinate the return, repatriation of illegal migrants. when i learned from the media that this agency was doing the opposite, that instead of helping to protect the european union's borders against illegal migration, it was going to the shores of africa, catching migrants and transporting them to europe, i put a written question to the commission on this matter, i asked the commission how this was possible. isn't that an overstepping of official authority? isn't that a misuse of taxpayers' money? does it not threaten the security of the european union, of all europeans? i think so, and i cannot understand why the european commission has not replied to my inquiry for six months. he responds to others very quickly.
madam president, we should be aware that the european union is facing a very serious situation. it turns out that president trump is a new phenomenon that doesn't provide a certain, predictable partner. the uk's departure is a clear weakening of the european union. let's not underestimate the example of the uk, which has given a voice to populists in all the countries of the european union. citizens ask me what our response is, how we respond to these challenges. it should be a challenge for us to realise the meaning of the european union, that if we want to be strong, we have to tackle real, fundamental problems that individual countries cannot solve at their own level. issues that are of concern to our citizens, such as security, economic growth and environmental quality. we'll be voting on them this week. it's the counter-terrorism directive, the trade agreement with canada, the regulation on strengthening external border controls, the reform of the trade in permits. in my opinion, it is a very clear answer to the concerns of our citizens and we should tell them that.
mr president, the word ‘crisis’ has been floating about here the whole morning. somehow i am tempted to say that i do not see the eu in a crisis. in order to see a crisis i would look all around the european union and i think that many around the european union would like to have the crisis that we say we have. what i do see is the european union being weak. it has weaknesses, it is unable to take up the challenges it has, it is unable to be quick enough in its solutions. quite often we are tackling issues for which the eu does not have competence. quite often we are looking at issues which we could leave to national competence. what is important is that we have an impetus and, for me, these three reports – while i admit that vis-à-vis some of them there would be provisions i would not agree with or could have difficulties with – are an impetus for real debate, a debate that we need in order to launch real reform of the european union and be able to take up the challenges and deliver on issues on which our public expects us to deliver. (the speaker declined to take a blue-card question from mr woolfe)
mr president, the three reports we are discussing have one common denominator: to find a response to citizens' mistrust of the eu. i thank their rapporteurs for all three reports. i consider the verhofstadt report to be a very interesting intellectual achievement, useful for public debate, but it cannot become a binding framework for us. i did not run for the european parliament with a vision of centralisation. i agree with some of the proposals, such as the creation of a defence union or the proposal for a single seat for the european parliament, but i do not agree with the strengthening of federalisation, or centralised decision-making on economic and social issues, such as the proposal for the adoption of a convergence code or a new position for a european finance minister with strong powers. i do not agree that meps from countries outside the euro area should be excluded from voting on certain issues. i find the report by mr broka more realistic. the response to citizens' expectations is the concrete action we will be adopting here this week.
mr. chairman, i can't hear a word you're saying, but i hope the interpreters can hear you. i was happy to support this own-initiative report, as it deals with the sensitive subject of commission expert groups and as full transparency and balance in their composition is essential for the integrity and functioning of these groups within the european commission. i support it even though the commission adopted horizontal rules on the composition and functioning of its own expert groups in may last year, which essentially deal with these aspects. however, i think that this report provides a clear framework for incorporating the european parliament's recommendations into the implementation process and also for the european parliament to request reports on the overall progress of this implementation.
mr president, i support this report on my own initiative, because i think it is a very good and coherent and balanced text, which addresses the issue of whistleblowers and their role in protecting the financial interests of the european union. corruption and fraud have a major negative impact on european finance, and although the european union has a multi-layered control mechanism that exposes non-transparent activities, at the lowest level, the role of the individual is absolutely essential. individual accountability has a significant impact on the prevention, detection and reporting of misconduct and corruption. whistleblowers should therefore have a clearly defined status in the legislative framework, which defines their rights and obligations and provides legal protection. i am very pleased that this report addresses this issue and also proposes concrete actions.
mr president, i understand that the legislative task for the commission was set precisely by the resolution of this parliament in 2013, and that the commission has not yet fulfilled this task. i really want to express my appreciation to all the courageous whistleblowers who are not afraid to report on the conduct that they have been exposed to or witnessed that is therefore fraudulent, goes against the financial interests of public institutions and so on. i want to express all this support. however, i was also very surprised to see the word 'financial compensation' used in the draft resolution. i am convinced that there is a certain compensation for the loss that can be caused by such an action, there is a certain satisfaction, but if the report talks about income, about the remuneration of such people, i think it is too encouraging and that this report has deviated from the framework that i was willing to support. that's why i'm late.
mr president, i could not support this report, even though i believe that discrimination against women is still a widespread phenomenon and that it needs to be systematically highlighted and combated. however, the report goes to extremes in some respects and exceeds the competence of the european union. it contains points which, in my view, should fall within the competence of the member states, both in the context of the principle of subsidiarity and by their very nature. it should be borne in mind that excessive efforts to strengthen women's rights can lead to absurdities in the relationship between the sexes.
mr president, i want to state that i am against any discrimination against women, that their quality of life should of course be as high as possible, and i would like to express my deep respect for women. however, as regards the specific topics mentioned in this report, such as sexual rights, reproductive health and other topics, i feel that every time this topic is raised here, we come across the issue of subsidiarity of european law and the role of the member states. i am also aware that these issues are the responsibility of the national states, and i am a little puzzled as to why some of my colleagues are constantly forced to vote against these reports, given their conscientious objections. i do not understand why these issues continue to come up, and i took the liberty of expressing my disapproval of such a violent coercion of my colleagues to once again violate their conscientious objections by abstaining from this report.
madam president, allow me to address the vice-president of the commission, who is not here today. i am sure you are aware of the appeal by the highest representatives of the ukrainian parliament to the parliaments of the eu, the usa, canada, japan and the european parliament, madam vice-president of the commission. it is unprecedented for the parliament of a european country to call on other parliaments for help. this ukrainian challenge is the real call of a man lost in the desert. he is a member of the 'people's council' of the 'donetsk people's republic'. it speaks of an impending humanitarian catastrophe, with frosts reaching as low as -18 degrees celsius. the report says that it is impossible to evacuate the civilian population from avdievka. it also talks about the fact that osce armed forces should be on the ground and that the minsk agreements are not being respected. for the third year in a row, we have been discussing the situation in ukraine in the european parliament, and people are still dying. i am sorry, madam high representative, but i am beginning to feel that the european union does not have the will to intervene effectively and sufficiently.
madam president, the fighting in eastern ukraine continues and russia continues to support the separatists. the european parliament must therefore reaffirm its political will and support for ukraine as called for by the ukrainian parliament. putin is waiting for the us position, trump should realize his responsibility, that he is no longer just an american businessman, but above all an american president and has responsibility for the security of the world. i am therefore proud that the european union stands behind ukraine, and we must not allow it. just like nato is behind ukraine. i think it is essential that the european union continues to put pressure on the ukrainian government and push for reforms, while at the same time supporting ukraine, in particular, to have the means to rebuild the economy. the political gesture that ukraine is waiting for is the liberalization of short-stay visas, and we should not delay it. i'm glad that ukraine has support here across the political spectrum.
), the question posed by the blue card. so i'd like to ask you: what do you see as a concrete solution to this problem? you've been quite positive about israel, but i'd like to know how you see the whole situation, how we might deal with it, and how you see yourself as a two-state solution. one on the palestinian side and one on the israeli side. and also, if you would comment on the question of the european union surveilling israel. do you think so too?
madam president, it seems that some people in the european union, including ms mogherini and others, love to criticise israel. many people in the eu would love to have a palestinian state in the west bank and they denounce any jewish settlement there. of course, it is okay to criticise any country and to wish anything, but one should be fair, and the eu is not fair in its policy towards israel. first, we should recognise that israel is our best friend and closest ally in the middle east. second, the eu should recognise that, in this israeli-palestinian conflict, there are competing claims over the west bank, and it makes no sense to stand on the palestinian side of the conflict. the eu should recognise that both palestinians and jews live in the area and the eu should be neutral at least. and third, the conflict cannot be resolved from the eu, in the eu or by the eu without israel and without palestinians. this conflict can be resolved only through direct talks between israel and palestinians. therefore, the eu should not discriminate against israelis in this conflict. since the eu has abolished all tariffs on palestinian goods from the west bank, it should abolish tariffs on jewish goods as well. i want to invite all of you to a conference entitled ‘israel and the west bank, myths and facts’, which i am organising in brussels on 28 march. please feel free to come and listen to arguments.
mr president, there is very good reason to be critical of the israeli policy on settlements. there is equally good reason to be critical of the inability of the palestinian administration to administer gaza. (aside to ms auken ‘i did not interrupt you, you do not have to interrupt me’) there are a number of issues we may have vis-à-vis any of the authorities involved, and we can continue to have debates of this kind. this debate is very similar, if not identical, to the previous ones and we will continue and continue, and what is the contribution really? i think that the only way out is to agree that we put the weight of the european parliament behind a motion seeking, in interaction with ms mogherini, serious unconditional negotiations on peace, on a peace settlement, on the resumption of the talks. that is the only way. otherwise, in a month or two months, we will again have a joint resolution which will be critical of either one side or the other, and that is not the way out. if we are serious about it, and we do not want the russians again to enter with their influence in a way that will have extremely negative effects, there is only one course of action. let us try to agree on that point. that is what i would propose.
mr president, the european union's relations with israel must be based on the fact that the state of israel is a democratic state governed by the rule of law, which is our reliable partner in the region and an ally in the fight against terrorism. the israeli-palestinian conflict cannot be reduced to the issue of west bank settlements. if we are to achieve a viable two-state solution, we must promote primarily bilateral israeli-palestinian dialogue. such a dialogue, in my view, presupposes that the palestinian leadership not only condemns terrorism on the palestinian side, but also actively fights against these terrorists. in the current complex international situation, the european union must act with prudence and help to create the conditions under which both sides can return to the negotiating table.
mr. chairman, settlement building is a long-standing problem for israeli-palestinian relations, but it is not a key issue and solution to the middle east peace process. where are the millions of refugees coming from, israel? or, on the contrary, do refugees find refuge in israel? israel is a state of law and a mature democracy, it is our strategic partner in this region. yet they still face unilateral measures such as declaring jerusalem's status or mandating labeling of goods from the west bank. the main security problem is not the democratic state of israel, but the powers that are building their military nuclear arsenal here. and in that respect, we are on the same page with israel.
madam president, commissioner, i welcome the commission's report on albania as a further step towards albania's integration into the european union and the opening of accession negotiations. the report describes in detail the shortcomings that hinder integration and put the association off for years. but he omits one of the most remarkable features of albanian politics. this is the political generosity that tirana has shown recently. at a time when europe is experiencing a refugee crisis and xenophobic populism is undermining europe's unity, albania was able to show solidarity between 2012 and 2016. it has taken in over two thousand iranian mujahideen from camp liberty refugee camp in iraq. what makes it all the more remarkable is that albania is one of the poorest countries in europe. an act that sets a mirror for some eu member states unable to integrate even a few hundred refugees. an act by which albania demonstrates its ability to honour european values.
madam president, the draft report on albania for 2016 contains a number of interesting information from an information and analytical point of view. it also contains arguably unnecessary but highly emphasised statements, for example that the process of albania's accession to the eu enjoys broad public support. i don't think the albanian government would participate in this process against the will of the public. the document focuses on a list of issues that are crucial to the situation in albania and its interest in membership. i mean, high crime rates, corruption affecting top politicians, or discrimination against women. while the report praises albania for progress, it also makes clear that the above problems are of fundamental nature and their factual existence must be prioritised over formal steps in the field of legislation or judicial reform. it is therefore a question of how to properly understand, for example, credible progress in the fight against organised crime and corruption. i recommend giving albania more time.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the very well prepared work and at the same time to commend the progress made by albania on its way to europe. undoubtedly, the good news coming out of this country is important to appreciate, even though we know that certain problems remain to be solved, this is not a path that albania could certainly take in a few short years. but i would also like to draw attention to what my colleague mr štětina has already said here. it is important to mention how, as an act of mercy, albania went to the rescue of refugees who were in iraqi territory. it was mostly iranian refugees who found themselves in such a state of inertia. i very much appreciate this move by the albanian government, i think it shows us a real act of mercy. so i'd really appreciate it if we could do that. the refugees need medical care, for example, if we are to help albania in this area.
for the group gue/ngl madam president, bosnia and herzegovina is the last constituent unit of the former yugoslavia to have been eliminated in a bloody civil war. a conflict has arisen, similar to that between catholics and protestants in ireland. sadly, the initiators of this war, the nationalist muslim and croatian entities, were never punished and the so-called srebrenica massacre has remained one of the justifications for the ostracism of serbs in the balkans to this day. the current report is based on the fiction of three nations, which are defined on a confessional basis. those who supported the atrocities during the civil war are now blaming the republic of serbia and the international criminal court is acting with those very intentions. in contrast to the situation in some countries in the eu today, where the central government is weak and the constituent units of the individual nations are strong, such as belgium, the eu and the report in question call for the closest possible approximation to a unitary state. the report is suspended for discrepancies between the results of the census and the data necessary for the preparation of the elections. when carried out by the statistical office in sarajevo and by the statistical surveys of the serbian entity, taking into account the different methodology, the difference is understandable. it's very embarrassing to try to ban an orthodox holiday. as if there weren't enough other more important events. since the report does not even see the danger of no-go zones in the muslim part of the country, i have legitimate fundamental reservations about its conclusions.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for a very balanced report and i would like to say that i really wish with all my heart that bosnia and herzegovina should become a candidate country. i know that this country has gone through a difficult development, i don't want to go back to that, i think we should appreciate the reforms they have done in two years with the fact that this year they are waiting for other fundamental socio-economic reforms, but i don't know what other organization, world organization, could help solve the problem of bosnia and herzegovina than the european union, than an organization that is in the close neighborhood of this country. i think it's really our duty to give that country hope, to help it overcome its fragmentation and to put hope in its veins, because this is really necessary, to give the young people in this country hope. i'd like to try very much.
mr president, i will speak only with regard to the report by antonio lópez-istúriz white. the alde group will support this report tomorrow. we are in favour of creating a real single market pillar within the european semester, and this must be strengthened. we need a system of regular monitoring so that we can identify country-specific barriers to the single market and stop any attempts by national, regional or local authorities to reintroduce national protectionism, be it the traditional economy or the collaborative economy. we must say no to attempts to divide the single market, and work instead to encourage measures that will lead to growth. the alde group also believes that evaluation of the state of single market integration should become an integral part of the economic government framework. i am proud to say that, according to a recent study on the single market, my country, the czech republic, is the third most integrated member state. i would support an official report on this topic so that we do not have to rely solely on outside studies. such reporting would be an important part of strengthening governments, and i hope that the commission will work further to make this happen.
mr president, i will be speaking on the report of the committee on employment and social affairs, in terms of employment and social policy, which is an important part of the european semester 2017. the report notes the improvement and recovery of the economy, the decline in unemployment, but still youth unemployment remains a major problem. 4.2 million young unemployed, that's still a big challenge we have to deal with. the report makes clear the benefits of fiscal responsibility and calls for support for smes, which are the real engine of the european economy, accounting for 90% of all european businesses. a large part of the report rightly focuses on the promotion of education and youth, including the recognition of skills from non-formal education and the quality of vocational education. in the field of employment, it places particular emphasis on an active employment policy, especially towards categories of persons at risk of unemployment, whether women or disabled persons. the european investment fund dimension and the europe 2020 poverty reduction focus should also be strengthened. i can support this report because it has the right emphasis and priorities.
the question posed by the blue card. mrs. keller, you are very critical of all trade agreements, and we've grown accustomed to your rhetoric. but you're making a whole, i would say, false argument, like in your speech you said that ceta is in the interest of investors and not in the interest of people. i could ask you: aren't investors people? aren't they ordinary people who want to live, aren't they the taxpayers who pay you here in this institution?
madam president, i represent the czech republic, a small, export-oriented country. our trade with canada is worth billions of dollars and 60% of our exporters are small and medium-sized businesses. they're not big corporations. we export engineering products, electrical products, plastic products, rubber products, engine parts, optical products, medical products, medical equipment and also food products. all of this will, of course, be made easier, trade in these commodities, if ceta comes into effect, because all the surcharges, tariffs, duties will gradually go down to zero. so it is quite clear that i will be lobbying for this agreement here, because it is in the interest of my country, its economy, our workers and employers that this agreement comes into force, and i think that for once again the european parliament has a good opportunity to do something positive, to approve this agreement. i'm very much in favor of that.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank madam commissioner for not giving up, for being determined and, commissioner, for all your efforts invested in the successful conclusion of this agreement. it is also thanks to you that we can today take this important step and give our clear ‘yes’ to the economic and trade agreement between the eu and canada, the most comprehensive agreement concluded so far. it will create new business opportunities for eu businesses, especially smes. not only that, it will facilitate access to public tenders at federal, provincial and local level in canada. it will take care of european geographical indications, including czech beer. madam commissioner, the eu needs to show now, more than ever, that it has not resigned, unlike some others, on the liberalisation of trade at international level, but not only that, the eu should stand ready to shape it. instead of closing our borders with protectionism we have to lead by example and make sure that there can be more such agreements with our key trade partners.
madam president, i support the ceta agreement on a free trade area between the european union and canada. the agreement essentially removes tariffs and barriers to trade between each other, and i think it's great that the european union will have less money from tariffs and that this money will stay in people's pockets. our citizens will be able to buy canadian goods and canadian goods from the eu cheaper, meaning duty-free. it's a little bit of freedom and a little bit of a rise in living standards. it's a much better deal than the infamous ttip, especially when it comes to arbitration. i am for free international trade and i honestly expect an independent great britain to negotiate a very similar agreement with canada. and if my country, the czech republic, were an independent state, i would support having a similar agreement with canada as well. perhaps we could negotiate a shorter and better agreement, but i support the principle of international free trade.
madam president, commissioner, the european union and canada have enjoyed very good commercial and political relations for almost 40 years. these must be deepened not only in the areas of trade but also in the areas of security, climate protection and the environment. from this perspective, the strategic partnership agreement is certainly a win-win. but we must not forget that canada will always have a super-standard relationship with the united states or the countries of the former british commonwealth. it is not possible, under the influence of brexit and the victory of donald trump, to abandon the pragmatic approach to negotiating international treaties. the current canadian representation may be close to us in value and may even be sympathetic to us. on the other hand, we cannot base our relations with it on that, we cannot have a double standard on ttip and ceta. both agreements are being badly negotiated and we must find the courage to seek a new version of this trade agreement and reject this proposal.
mr president, i also supported this free trade agreement with canada because i believe that free trade, if it is not hampered by administrative or other obstacles, is simply helpful. i am convinced that well-managed trade rules and trade policy can, on the contrary, further boost the european economy. according to conservative estimates, this agreement is expected to increase the volume of the economy between the two entities by 20% when it enters into force. the conservative estimate is $12 billion. most duties and charges are eliminated. i am convinced that this agreement will not lead to the loss of jobs, as the left claims, but will, on the contrary, promote employment. i am also pleased that various geographical indications, such as czech beer or hops from the czech republic, have been successfully protected. so in that respect too, i welcome the agreement and firmly believe that it will bring the benefits we are talking about here.
mr. speaker, i voted in favour of the canada deal, as did 407 other members of the house. i'm glad the deal ended up with such strong support. i think that in this uncertain situation the european union needs a strong, stable partner. i'm also glad that this trade agreement is not just about trade relations, but also about cooperation in foreign and defense policy, in research, in education. ceta goes beyond a mere commitment to eliminate tariffs. it also contains commitments to protect high standards in the areas of the environment or working conditions, consumer protection and geographical indications, as has already been discussed by colleagues. i consider the import quotas and the public policy reservation to be entirely sufficient safeguards and guarantees to ensure competition. ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased that the european parliament has taken this important step.
mr. chairman, we voted today on a major change to the permit market. the surplus of allowances on the market logically leads to a significant reduction in their price, recently the price of an emission allowance has fallen below eur 4. it is not surprising, then, that the effectiveness of this system is questioned. if we want the system to work more efficiently, and i assume that we all want it to, we have to make a logical effort to reduce the number of allowances in circulation in a certain way, but in proportion to what the industry can bear. that is why i did not support the reduction of 800 million in allowances proposed by the envi committee. at the same time, however, i supported keeping the linear reduction factor at 2,2% rather than increasing it. i am well aware that the interests of environmental protection and the efficiency of the allowance system are at odds with the sustainability of business in certain sectors of heavy industry. i think we've found a balanced solution today. that's why i voted yes.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, while the terrorist threat in europe remains at a critical level and as isis loses ground in the middle east, this threat and the one posed by their returning foreign fighters is likely to persist. whereas responsibility for security lies primarily with member states, recent terrorist attacks in europe have shown that no country can manage on its own. we need to adapt our counterterrorism measures to this reality and add a truly european approach. 82% of europeans want europe to do more to combat terrorism and 69% consider its current measures to be insufficient. i believe that this new directive is part of our response to their demands. it will strengthen the eu’s arsenal against terrorism by criminalising acts such as receiving training for terrorism or travelling for terrorist purposes, while, of course, preserving fundamental rights and freedoms. giving member states harmonised judicial tools should also facilitate their cooperation. this is key for me and my group, and we will not give up on this. i would like to thank the rapporteur, monika hohlmeier, the shadows, the commissioner, his team and and the slovak presidency. well done, well done.
mr. chairman, first of all, let me thank mrs. hohlmeier and her team for their excellent work. the directive does not really cover everything, but i think it is becoming more and more relevant and that many of the topics we wanted to have in the directive are mentioned in it. although the directive is in some ways a response to the attacks in paris, i think it has become increasingly relevant after the attacks in berlin. and that is why i am pleased that many of you, colleagues, are also mentioning the rights of victims of crime. because victims of crime and victims of terrorism are often forgotten. last year, europol's fears were confirmed, concluding that it was very reasonable to expect that a religious-inspired terrorist group would again carry out a terrorist attack somewhere in europe. and that fear continues. it is therefore necessary to intensify the fight against terrorism and prevent similar attacks. there are now several thousand european union citizens, i don't say outside the european union, who are suspected of involvement in the fighting in iraq and syria. but no one can give an exact number. whether they are returning foreign fighters or lone wolves, the european union must be able to deal with them adequately. and the only way to deal with them is if we have a unified criminal justice system in these matters.
madam president, in the previous debate i pointed out that so-called foreign fighters and other persons who have been fighting or training in conflict areas are coming to the european union. these people are free to move around our territory after the schengen system has been introduced and we are not able to control their movements or to follow them. it is therefore of the utmost importance that we ensure that anyone crossing the external borders of the european union does not pose a threat to internal security or public policy. we therefore need to introduce not only systematic border checks but also make effective use of the sis and the interpol database on stolen and lost documents. such international cooperation is necessary because the european union cannot fight terrorism alone, let alone win the fight.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – mr president, unlike the fears raised in the report, we should limit ourselves to the current realities of robotic systems and what is needed to help develop the regulatory environment to allow their increased used and manufacturing in europe. as legislators we need to keep our vision closer to the ground. while i am honoured that the report makes note of the important role of the czech nation in the creation of the word ‘robot’ and in our literature as a czech, i believe it is wrong to mix science fiction and a real need to address issues like liability. we must reject the belief that robots are going to steal everyone’s job. this is simply not true. we must reject that we are creating ‘electronic persons’: i am sorry, but robots are not humans, it is pure science fiction to think otherwise. we must reject attacks on robots, and a new eu agency. the bottom line: go and see the robots that exist today and those in development. they are already transforming our industry and society and i believe for the better. this transformation is not something to fear. by 2025, in less than 10 years, robotics could add more than eur 1 trillion to our european economy. the benefits far outweigh any risks. but if we are to succeed in this field, we must ensure that the rules of the single market apply fully.
for the group gue/ngl mr. chairman, the word robot and robotics was given to mankind by the great czech writer and playwright karel čapek. and even 90 years ago, he predicted the problems that mankind would face with robots and robotics. the increasing automation is a reality we cannot hide our heads in the sand. we find ourselves in a situation similar to that of factory workers when their jobs began to be replaced by machines. even today, the impact of robotics on the labour market is a major concern. while the european commission's sparc programme forecasts €8 billion of investment in robotics, which is expected to help create a total of 240 000 new jobs in industry and other sectors by 2020, studies are known to show the opposite, even catastrophic, figures. for example, in the czech republic alone, up to 140 000 people are expected to lose their jobs by 2025 and a number of sectors are expected to disappear. whichever scenario is realized, it is evident that for many, the era of one job, one profession, becoming a lifelong livelihood is ending. education in particular will have to respond, with emphasis on training in new, creative and forward-looking fields. as the rapporteur rightly points out in her report, we will have to find answers not only to the legal but also to the ethical and social questions raised by robotics. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. you are undoubtedly right, and i could answer by quoting karl marx, that when machines liberate man, man will have the most precious thing, which is his own time.
mr president, commissioner, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mrs delvaux, and all the colleagues from the juri committee who contributed to this report. i am personally pleased because in my country, the czech republic, there is a great deal of effort in this field. the word robot was given to us by the czech writer karel čapek. this report does not properly make legislative proposals, but it does raise fundamental issues that will need to be addressed in legislation. the report aims to ensure that, on its basis, the legal order can continue to fulfil its essential function of providing legal certainty to producers and users. by opening the debate, we will give the european union a chance to become the standard-setter in the field of robotics. i support the report as a whole, but i support the amendments on certain points, in particular the creation of a special legal status for robots or a basic income. i think we're getting too far away from predictable reality.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for giving the commission the opportunity to clarify its position on the german road-charging reform. i know this issue has stirred up a lot of emotions, in germany as well as in neighbouring countries, and this is why i would like to focus today on facts. first, the commission has consistently promoted, and continues to promote, road-charging in line with the ‘user and polluter pays’ principle. in our view, this is the most sustainable and fairest way to ensure infrastructure financing, and this is clearly referable to taxation. secondly, there is at this stage no specific eu legislation on road-charging for passenger cars, only for heavy goods vehicles. there is also no eu law on vehicle taxation of passenger cars. both remain national competences. this being said, it is vital that member states respect the eu treaty. this includes, of course, the principle of non-discrimination based on nationality, and yes, i still stand for that. so let me be very clear: foreign drivers cannot be discriminated against. thirdly, the commission has been in discussions with the german authorities on their road-charging reform for several years. since the beginning, the commission has raised several reservations concerning the german plans. these reservations were only partly taken into account by the german authorities while drafting the first version of the laws. this is the reason why the commission was able to react only a week after the adoption of these laws by starting an infringement case. the launch of this infringement case had the immediate effect of germany suspending implementation of the pkw-maut. the commission had two main concerns relating to discrimination against foreign users. first, the one-to-one vehicle tax compensation of german vehicle owners, and second, the excessively high prices of shorter vignettes, purchased mainly by foreign vehicle—owners. the launch of the infringement case did not stop discussions with the german authorities. the commission indicated repeatedly that it would continue, as is often the case during infringement procedures, to try to find a solution without having to go to court, and on 1 december minister alexander dobrindt and i were able to announce publicly that we had reached a political understanding on the way forward. that’s it. i am very pleased that the german authorities recognised the need to amend the two laws to meet the following principles. firstly, the german vehicle tax law should be based on environmental logic and avoid one-to-one compensation of all german-owned vehicles. secondly, the prices for short-term vignettes should be reasonable and proportionate to ensure that foreigners, who usually buy these vignettes, are not discriminated against in favour of german users, who would, in general, buy annual vignettes. on this basis, the german government issued new legislative proposals just three weeks ago on 25 january. these proposals will now have to be examined and voted on in the german parliament. in the meantime, the infringement case is still there and, as you know, infringement cases are matters strictly between the member states and the commission and therefore i cannot discuss the details of the case. i am fully aware of the concerns of neighbouring member states which believe that the amended german pkw-maut and vehicle tax law may still be discriminatory, but it is way too early to reply to these concerns as the new laws have not yet been debated and voted on in the german bundestag. when these new laws are adopted, and only then, will the commission assess them and decide on further actions. the infringement case will be closed if, and only if, the commission is convinced that the german laws do not discriminate against foreign drivers. it is very important for me and the european union that germany now agree to put their road-charging reform in the context of a future eu-wide system. as you know, the commission is currently preparing a revision of eu legislation on road-charging as part of the road initiatives. the plan is to adopt them this spring. on road-charging we are considering proposing rules that underpin non-discrimination of foreign vehicle-owners and pave the way for an eu-wide system. this could include for the first time passenger cars, excluded so far, and remove obstacles for operators to provide eu-wide toll services. this would ensure equal treatment of all vehicles – passenger cars and heavy goods vehicles – and better services to users related to payment of tolls, especially for cross-border traffic. it will also represent a major step in delivering on our low emission strategy adopted last summer. i will now be more than happy to reply to all your questions and hopefully clarify all your doubts related to this case.
for the group gue/ngl madam president, commissioner, certainly no one can question the fact that germany has the right to impose tolls on passenger cars on its motorways. however, i firmly believe that we must demand from the german side - and i ask you to do so not just in words but in concrete actions by the commission itself - that this is not done in a way that is discriminatory towards drivers from other member states. i consider the german toll system to be discriminatory because it means that all germans will be reimbursed for a large part of the toll costs and that the toll will thus be de facto paid by foreigners only. i would like to state here that if it is confirmed that there are negative discriminatory effects for the member states, the matter should also be dealt with by the court, and not just by the european parliament. we only ask for fair terms that are the same for all parties. as directly elected representatives of the 28 member countries, we have a moral obligation to ensure that all citizens are treated equally, and we should not stand by while money is taken out of the pockets of some and not others. you've known about this problem for a long time, and for a long time you've de facto done nothing. now is the time that if you do nothing, it will get worse and worse and you will only prove to the european citizens that the european commission does not do what it is supposed to do and only watches. i think that would be a shame, and i believe what you told us would be different.
madam president, first of all i have a few words of appreciation to the commissioner. you acted quickly at the beginning, commissioner, and i think that was decisive. secondly, i also appreciate your intention to submit european legislation to the council and parliament. i have one comment: at this time, it is not just about the maut. you talk about the internal market, and we hear much rhetoric about completing the internal market but, at the same time, we are creating more and more obstacles at national level. the issue on which we differ, and where we have certain reservations, concerns where we are today. we all know about, and have spoken unanimously today about, the deficiencies of the new proposal. we know what the position is, so we do not need to wait for an explanation by the bundestag. you know what it is, and at this stage you have two options: either, with the support you have heard in this parliament, and it is a majority support, you enter into negotiations with the germans and/or you utilise the infringement procedures that you have available. there is no other option because we are heading towards a dead end.
madam president, commissioner, one of the fundamental principles on which the european union is based is the principle of non-discrimination on grounds of nationality. germany has proposed a road charging scheme which has raised concerns about discrimination against foreign drivers. despite the change in the originally proposed laws, the possibility of deducting the road fee from the annual motor vehicle tax is to be guaranteed only to vehicles registered in germany. i would therefore like to ask the commission, which is seen as the guardian of the treaties and which counterbalances the interests of the member states, whether the political agreement with the german representatives is really fully in line with european union law. the commission's credibility in using the same yardstick for all is dependent on the answers, and i am not convinced of that.
madam president, commissioner, the infection of national egoism is causing a creeping erosion of the internal market of the european union. the german toll bill contributes to this. the commission should be the guardian of european integration, and i believe that it will be able to do so in this case as well. according to settled case-law of the court of justice, restrictions on the freedoms of the internal market, not only discriminatory but even those which make the exercise of the freedoms of the internal market less attractive, are inadmissible if they are disproportionate. and i'm afraid this is also the case with the german toll. we also need to think about how to make crossborder cooperation work well. i'm afraid the german toll bill is an obstacle to such a good functioning.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to express my thanks for all the comments and for the opportunity to have this very extensive debate about the pkw-maut here in the chamber. i hope that this debate has been as useful for you as it has been for me. let me once again reassure you that the commission, as guardian of the treaties, will ensure that there is no discrimination based on nationality. for now, we will have to wait for the outcome of the vote in the german bundestag on the pkw-maut and the vehicle tax. when this has taken place, the commission will assess the law and will take a final decision on the case. i would like just to stress that currently the infringement procedure is not closed, but on hold, to allow time for revision of the law. this practice has been used before in different cases and i see no reason why it should not be used in this case. let me reply to some of your many questions and concerns. is the commission satisfied with the outcome? the commission strongly favours road-charging in line with the ‘user and polluter pays’ principle. there is no doubt about that. therefore it is positive that germany is moving towards road-charging for passenger cars as many other member states have already done in the past. it is also positive that the german authorities agreed to amend their legislation as requested by the commission. this should ensure a fair treatment of eu citizens and should incentivise the use of cleaner vehicles, but, at this point, i cannot speculate on the final outcome of the law. the commission will only be able to comment after the law has been presented and confirmed. as far as the questions relating to the european court of justice are concerned, let me explain that the aim of infringement cases is to bring national legislation into line with eu law. it is not the aim, per se, to bring member states to the european court of justice. but also let me stress once again that the commission will not close the infringement procedure until german legislation has been satisfactorily amended in accordance with eu law. i would also like to say very clearly that all infringement procedures are managed by the commission in the collegial manner. the pkw-maut procedure is no exception. regarding the commission apparently changing its position, allow me to comment on that as well. the commission did not change its position at any stage of the process. the infringement case was launched based on the identification of very clear breaches of eu law. the political understanding which was reached between minister dobrindt and me in december specifically addresses these same breaches. i would like to underline that the commission always, and consistently, acts as the guardian of the treaties. you also speculated that the talks with germany were kept secret. infringement cases are matters strictly between the commission and the member states in question. it is usual practice for the commission to have bilateral discussions with member states in order to find solutions and germany is no exception here. but let me say that the commission has been as transparent as possible in its proceedings, including with public statements. when taking further steps in the infringement procedures, this was also publicly announced and, on the day of the political understanding, this was announced in a press conference by mr dobrindt and myself. i was very clear in that press conference about the position of the commission. let me also stress that, in the absence of eu legislation on charging and vehicle taxation for passenger cars, we have to ensure that article 18 of the treaty, on non-discrimination, is respected. as i said earlier, we believe that one way to avoid discrimination is to apply charges and taxes based on different criteria, for instance on environmental performance and the infrastructure use of vehicles. this is precisely what we expect from the new german law. and what about the claims made by neighbouring member states? i am very attentive to the voices of member states. i have been listening to them and this underlines the need to establish, as soon as possible, an eu-wide system for road-charging. i am glad to say that we have already taken many of your comments on board and they will be presented soon. i am also aware that the committee on transport and tourism is preparing a resolution on the pkw-maut, which will be voted in plenary in march. i look forward to seeing the resolution and hope that the debate today has been informative in this regard. before i conclude, please allow me to restate what is at the heart of our forthcoming road initiatives. we want to take decisive steps towards decarbonisation, promoting a well—functioning, fair, social and efficient internal market, favouring innovation, digital solutions and investments. any debate on road-charging has to be placed in this perspective. i can only hope that i can count on your support for an eu—based tolling system.
thank you very much indeed. may i just emphasise what you said at the end about counting on our support. yes, i think the whole debate was guided precisely by that objective. the debate is closed. the vote will take place in the march ii session. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by jerzy buzek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the european cloud initiative (2016/2145(ini)) (a8-0006/2017). in order for there not to be any delay, as i understand that mr buzek is not yet with us and in order not to keep us waiting, i propose commissioner, if you agree, that we will start with your introduction and hopefully in the meantime mr buzek will arrive.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members very much for this interesting debate and all the questions which we received and which we have discussed. i will start by quoting mr boni, who said that open data is the future and locking up is the past. we have the opportunity not to miss this boat of open access, open data, open science and openness to the world. so i really warmly appreciate your calls during this debate to speed up implementation, to invest in a world—leading capacity, to set up a governance structure with a membership that is truly representative of european science, to protect people’s data and privacy, and to ensure that european industry and the public sector benefit fully from it. the commission knows that it can count on the european parliament as a true partner to realise these objectives in full. thank you very much for this discussion and for your comments. i am a great believer that this is the way to go. this is the way to go so that we can have better science. our scientists, whom i meet every day, tell us that they want to have this cloud. they need this cloud. this cloud is about being better, being able to mine text and data better than others, and having access to information that can create ideas. those ideas can create companies and those companies will create the jobs of the future.
commissioner, i would like to express my appreciation of your efforts in terms of entering into debate. it is not always the case that commissioners react to the questions that have been posed, and that is what i would like to encourage so that the european parliament is an arena of real debate.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 16 february 2017. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by lambert van nistelrooij, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on investing in jobs and growth – maximising the contribution of european structural and investment funds: an evaluation of the report under article 16(3) of the cpr (2016/2148(ini)(a8-0385/2016), – the oral question to the commission on delayed implementation of european structural and investment (esi) funds operational programmes – impact on cohesion policy and the way forward by iskra mihaylova, on behalf of the committee on regional development (o-000005/2017 – b8-0202/2017) (2016/3008(rsp)).
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, good evening. i would like to thank the european parliament's committee on regional development for this oral question. i thank the lady mihaylova. i also thank mr van nistelrooij for his own-initiative report on the impact of cohesion policy and the way forward. your comments, everyone's comments, are very important to us. as you know, the better implementation task force is working on it and will continue to work on it for the period 2014-2020. also, crossborder cooperation, which mr van nistelrooij referred to, is very close to my heart and we will be coming in the coming months to show a study on the impact of these crossborder policies. i think these studies are very important at a time when we are trying to show that we want to build links between countries, not walls that separate the citizens of the european union. as for the oral question, it comes, i think, at the right time. a number of meps have expressed concern about delays in investment through the cohesion funds. of course i understand these concerns you've expressed. i have also expressed my views to the member states on several occasions, because cohesion policy is, as you know, the main driving force for investment in the european union. as mr van nistelrooij points out in his report, investment through cohesion policy is needed now more than ever to foster growth and job creation, to reduce disparities between regions and to address in a personalised way the specific needs of all our regions, home to 500 million citizens. but let me assure you that this is exactly what is happening on the ground, where it is needed and where it really matters. the value of the selected projects, those currently being implemented, gives us a clear picture of what cohesion policy really does. to date, over €176 billion has already been invested in the real economy over the period 2014-2020, which will soon be reflected in payments made by the european union to member states. that's exactly what happened between 2007 and 2013. over 315 000 projects are under way in all regions of the european union, providing support for 140 000 businesses, tens of thousands of households to benefit from broadband access, over 8.5 million citizens to benefit from appropriate wastewater facilities, improved infrastructure for thousands of researchers and - we are working closely with commissioner moedas on this - new schools for thousands of pupils in the european union. we have many examples of projects that are emblematic of the european union. i would not like to keep you waiting for them, because i know that in every region, in every member state, you have examples of this kind. i believe that the success of cohesion policy investments should not be quantified by how many invoices are sent to brussels and paid, but rather by how the programmes are concretely implemented on the ground. i agree with mr van nistelrooij, because, as i have said many times, quality must prevail over speed and the results must be good in terms of absorption, but we do not absorb for the sake of absorption. we want concrete, quality projects that respond ex ante to conditionalities, respond to structural reforms, make that transition you spoke of, from infrastructure to research, development, competitiveness, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of any economy. as regards your report, the commission welcomes and appreciates, as i said, mr van nistelrooij's opinion and we want to assure you that we are doing everything we can to further reform this cohesion policy so that it becomes more effective, by strengthening support for the knowledge-based economy, by creating instruments such as the performance framework, preconditions for efficient investment, e-cohesion, for the designation of authorities that ensure the regularity of expenditure and guarantee legal certainty. however, it is the responsibility of the member states that must be borne in mind. after all, it's about shared responsibility. it is up to the member states and regions to make use of these possibilities made available by the european commission. they are primarily responsible for the selection and implementation of projects. of course we have to work together to strengthen administrative capacity. as i said, in many cases administrative capacity is more important than money, because, you see, we are in a situation where we have money in brussels, but we do not have contracted projects, quality projects and adequate administrative capacity. thank you very much. i would have liked to have had more time, but i want to assure you that we are closely monitoring the implementation of the programmes in the 2014-2020 programming period to ensure that payments are in line with commitments. i agree with you that we have made a big mistake in recent years, because we have not communicated enough about what cohesion policy has done, how it has changed citizens' lives for the better and so we have ignored all the attacks on the european union and we have reached this situation where all the bad comes from brussels and all the good comes from the member states. i think we need to put more emphasis on what we do and each of us take our share of responsibility in terms of implementing projects. the money is there. we expect member states to contract for quality projects that meet the needs of citizens in each region.
thank you, commissioner. i am sure we will have an opportunity to listen to your closing remarks and we will have more time then.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for your contribution to our debate today. i am very glad that, despite the many criticisms i heard, it is clear we in this house all care about cohesion policy. as mr zeller and many of you put it, this is the most visible policy we have that has changed people’s lives over the past 40 years since the creation of the european regional development fund (erdf). i think this debate could not be more timely. i heard a lot of comments about delays. they were referring to the limited amount of commission payments but, in fact, spending and project selection rates in 2016 are similar to 2009 levels in the previous programming period. once all the designated authorities are in place, i am sure we will have invoices and we will have a flow of reimbursement of contributions by member states which are now paying from their national budgets. as i said, the reality on the ground is completely different. we have 315 000 projects already up and running, raising investments to over eur 107 billion. we have action plans for all operational programmes and, as i said, it is not just about quantity, it is also about quality. the recent reformed cohesion policy, to which the european parliament contributed so much, introduced a range of tools that made this policy more effective. of course we know it is sometimes hard to accept the preconditions, but they are very important for efficient investment. that is why, in the last parliamentary term, you approved this new reformed cohesion policy. i am convinced that we can do even better. when we spoke here before the committee on regional policy the key word was simplification, but when i go to the committee on budgetary control the key word is control, and we have to find the right balance because both are right. we need simplification and, at the same time, we need better control over how taxpayers’ money is used. you are right, honourable members, about simplification but i would like to tell you, mr fernandes and mr buda, that shared management also means the sharing of responsibilities between the commission and member states. you know very well, for instance, mr buda, that in many member states, including the country we both know best, there are many requirements that are not eu requirements. it is also about red tape, gold-plating, adding requirements at national level, and we also have to convince member states about simplification for the beneficiaries. as you said, and you are right, the beneficiaries should be our ambassadors – the presidents of regions and the mayors – because this is the only policy which is working hand in hand with local citizens’ representatives. so please spread the word among your colleagues in this house. maybe you come from a town where people do not know how many things were done by the european union. i do not know how many people in naples know that the metro was funded by the european union. i do not know how many people in athens know that the metro there was funded by the european union. and, by the way, provide us please with all your requirements because we are ready to address them. we pushed hard on the greek authorities to accelerate the implementation of the metro in thessaloniki. i think it is unacceptable for a country in which we have invested eur 80 billion since 1981, where everything – the provision of thousands of schools, hospitals, highways and bridges – has been accomplished with european money, then to say that cohesion policy does not exist. in greece, 75% of all public investment is provided by the european union, so we have to be honest with ourselves. look at the picture: how was greece before 1981 and how is greece now? (inaudible interjection by mr marias) please send me a written letter. i would just like to say that the cohesion policy works, it delivers and it really changes people’s lives. i am very glad to hear that we need technical assistance but we cannot give technical assistance without knowing the requirements of the member states. we have so many european instruments which are not used by the member states and they do not ask for these instruments to be activated, which are subsidised 100% by the commission we have very few requirements from the member states and from the regions. we are here to help. we are here to improve this policy, and i am here to fight for this policy post-2020. all the political groups know that we are already working together with the committee of the regions, and with you, for a better and more effective european policy.
thank you very much indeed for making an effort to answer the questions. i would like to emphasise that we, as parliamentarians, have opportunities to do that too. and, vis-à-vis the national parliaments, you made the point about gold-plating and the need for simplification. i think that we share these objectives and that every single institution could still do more.
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 128(1). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 16 february 2017. written statements (rule 162)
rapporteur. – mr president, in the recent past we have not had that many opportunities to praise the european union for something very concrete and tangible but i must say that the aviation sector has been a success, and it has been a success thanks to the european union. imagine air transport twenty years ago, and the possibilities and opportunities for consumers, for us travellers; i think that flying away for a weekend somewhere in europe at low cost was difficult to imagine. in fact, aviation at that time was for maybe a limited number of people. this is a concrete result of the single european sky and the liberalisation that we managed to pursue at european union level. now, increased aviation transport does not mean that we do not face any challenges. in fact, i could name at least some of them: environmental targets, certainly. i do not think anybody would deny today that we need to continue with lowering emissions from air transport. competition with third countries, digitalisation – it is now more than a year ago that the commission came with its plan to address these and some other challenges. in fact, it proposed to start negotiations with our main partners, to revise the rules on the european aviation safety agency, and tap eu potential for growth by revising some internal regulations. this is, of course, very welcome and we have already started working on some of it, but, at the same time, we still are still awaiting some of the proposals. the aviation sector undoubtedly requires heavy investment in a fast-evolving environment. if we want to be efficient, then we need to set a clear vision for this sector, for the investments we make today and in the future. we need to have a vision for the next, even i would say, 50 years. this is, to a certain extent, the purpose of this report, to try to find some practical alternatives for what is not working today and to make some proposals for the future. i am afraid i cannot list all of them today, but at least allow me to make a few points. first of all, develop a connectivity index based on added value of all modes of transport, in order to rationalise investment and improve the overall resilience of the transport network in europe, while improving connectivity. this index can help policymakers to take the appropriate decisions without undermining territorial cohesion. secondly, a trans-european motorway of the sky, to limit the impact of possible disruptions to where they occur, thereby allowing eu flights to pursue their journey. this was the subject of a bit of a debate in meetings with some of my colleagues. i promised that i would make it clear to the commission that this completely means that we are putting an eu stamp on a part of the airspace and saying that in this airspace the eu should have priority over national flights. i would like to stress that this is not against national sovereignty and it is not against the right to strike. on the contrary, this is only about recalling some obligations that we should have towards the european union. i will be very brief on the european aviation model. we need to stop thinking that we will solve problems of competition with our partners by putting an end to competition. this is only going to be detrimental to passengers. competition is an opportunity for our airlines. we need to provide them with the right safeguards, of course, and this is why the european parliament will be following closely the negotiations on air agreements. i find intermodality a very important element of this report because quite often when we talk specifically about aviation as a transport mode, we tend to take it separately from other modes of transport. finally, on security, there is no need to recall why this is a major concern now. of course, we need better coordination of eu intelligence and we should make sure we make the most up to date technology equipment, but we should also be careful not to overburden passengers. that is why the commission is invited to consider the creation of an eu pre-check system where passengers could voluntarily register in order to go through smooth security checks once at the airport. there are many more [topics] in the draft aviation strategy and maybe we will have an opportunity to debate them today.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, commissioner, allow me to thank the rapporteur not only for his report, but also for having backed away from his original intention and focusing more on the social aspects of his report. it was done under pressure from the committee on employment and social affairs, but i am glad that my colleague now sees the link between good working conditions and quality of service. i cannot therefore agree with what mrs foster said, and i think it is good that other committees have also commented on this report. i also welcome the fact that the report calls on easa and the member states to continue to examine new business and employment models in order to ensure aviation safety. i believe that special attention should be paid to zero-hour contracts, for example, which i consider to be extremely unfair to employees. i am for a strong european aviation, but it must not be built on the backs of devastated workers, on whom the quality of service stands and falls. we have to be able to connect the dots, and i think your colleague has done that, and i want to thank him very much for that.
member of the commission. – mr president, there are many issues and many questions but first let me say thank you very much again to both rapporteurs, mr telička and mr christensen, for a very comprehensive report and a very fruitful discussion. i would like to respond to all of you, but the time is really limited, so i will try to focus only on a couple of issues. i hope we can have a further discussion through the bilateral meetings on all the topics you raised. first, just very quickly, on biofuels: in our low emission and mobility strategy we were very clear about the importance of alternative energies for transport. i have to say that, for aviation, biofuels are currently the only alternative which we will fully support. on the topic of multimodality, which rolls with the same topic, and air quality, multimodality is certainly a very positive environmental impact, notably regarding local air quality, so we designed the ten-t corridors fully multimodal. it has been estimated that many of the indirect co2 emissions at airports originate from surface access transport. developing important public transport systems is therefore key, both for environmental reasons and for fairer competition between airport modes, and we are pursuing this goal. on regional airports: these deliver very positive economic and other benefits for the communities they serve. in recent years, regional airports have begun to pursue commercial objectives and are competing with each other to attract air traffic. in this new competitive environment, public funding of regional airports may distort competition between regional airports, so allow me at this point to also mention state-aid rules, which are necessary to ensure a level playing field between regional airports. our guidance makes clear under which conditions public funding can be justified. regarding the pre-check and pre-clearance programmes, the commission is aware that at least one important international partner has commenced and implemented an expedited screening programme, so-called precheck, for so-called ‘trusted travellers’. as a prerequisite, such travellers need to enrol and a programme determines the level of risk posed by the individual. this issue is therefore worth exploring further. pre-clearance: the commission has noted the us preclearance programme which aims at facilitating and rendering more expeditious the process of their arrival in the us. a number of major airports in the union and their respective state’s authorities has been approached and consulted, in order to have such an arrangement in place. this needs a series of procedural and infrastructural modifications to the current configuration in place at union airports. eu funding on preclearance will be considered further. regarding pay-to-fly: new employment models have emerged, such as pay-to-fly for flight crew. there is no evidence that safety is negatively impacted but the commission and the european aviation safety agency (easa) are continuing to monitor the pay-to-fly scheme. i have already used up my time, so i am happy to discuss all other questions at the bilateral meetings. thank you very much for your attention and i am really happy that we are on board together to make sure that aviation remains one of the success stories of the european union.
rapporteur. – mr president, let me start by first of all thanking my colleagues ms clune, ms foster and ms ayala sender. i must say i have truly enjoyed working jointly with you and i appreciate your input. you have contributed immensely. secondly, in reaction to some of the comments: mrs konečná said that she is happy that i backed off on the social issues. well, i am afraid that she cannot recall the deliberations because she did not have the time to join us for one single meeting, otherwise she would know that the social aspects were present from the very beginning. the difficulty that i had was when we received an opinion from the committee on employment and social affairs which was as long as the draft report itself. then it was extremely difficult to accommodate it. i think we need to have a certain sort of discipline. so i am glad that, together with the rapporteur from the employment committee, we then managed to shrink it, but as i say, it has always been present. secondly, on the cop: you know, it depends how we write reports. we can have a report of 20-30 pages mentioning the cops, as important as they are – cop21 certainly – all the elements, all the documents, but nobody will read it. i am rather in favour of reports that will outline exactly the tools, the instruments with which we will manage to do it. i invite you to have a look at, for example, the connectivity index. it is there; i mean this is the tool with which we can really arrive at the outcome. i do have a dream. my dream is that i wake up one day in the morning, i decide with the family or without to fly in the evening; that i will look at the internet, i will buy an integrated ticket which will take me from my village to prague, then to the airport, then from the airport to another airport, and then by train – integrated ticketing, integrated modes of transport; that i will get to the airport and i will be safe; that there will be pre-screening with no extra hassle, but still security will matter; i will fly on a plane, whether it is european or international, which will have low emissions, which will be quiet, a plane with a rested crew, etc.; i will arrive without any disruption of traffic. so this says what this report is aiming at, and i believe that if we vote for it this is yet another important step in the right direction. so thank you very much indeed. i am sure that gradually, with an active commission, with an ambitious commissioner, we will be able to make the dream come true.
author. mr. chairman, we are gathered here today to discuss the case, and i would like to tell a story, of human rights activist and environmental activist, francesca ramirez, who is trying to lead her organization in nicaragua, called the council for the protection of land, lakes and sovereignty, and with her colleagues, is trying to peacefully protest the mega-plan of the nicaraguan government to establish and create a canal between the atlantic and pacific oceans. this whole project is accompanied by many questions, it is connected with the lack of transparency of the whole project, with the fact that the chinese investor obtained special authorizations from the nicaraguan government. and what is important is that it is clear that the nicaraguan government and state authorities are harassing these activists who are pointing out the problems and protesting against them. we are passing a resolution today asking the government to stop harassing human rights activists and allow them to protest peacefully. and i think that's key, because even though there may be a certain government project, citizens have the right to protest against it and express their opinions and thereby exercise their freedom of speech.
mr president, it is high time we spoke about nicaragua in this house. the situation of human rights and democracy has been deteriorating for years and i therefore welcome this first resolution of this legislature on nicaragua. it is not just the interoceanic canal and the crackdown on protesters exercising their right to freedom of association and expression. francisca ramírez is just one example of hundreds of voices opposed to the government, who are suffering from an increasingly harsh repression. the government has been systematically undermining democratic processes and the rights of its citizens to consolidate its control of the country. the most recent example of this was the last november elections, which marked the end of a rigged and unfair electoral process. in response to all this, this resolution calls on the european union to monitor the situation and, if necessary, to assess possible measures to be taken with nicaragua, a co-signatory of the association agreement with central america. the ortega government has shown us time and time again its true face and intentions. we cannot act reactively and wait until more violations occur or we will end up with another venezuela in central america. i therefore ask the high representative to start investigating measures that can be implemented to prevent this from happening.
the question posed by the blue card. i have a question for you, mrs. vergiato. you talked about forced confessions and rigged trials. can you give specific sources for your claims? can you also state how many executions were actually carried out in bahrain? how has the bahraini regime made progress on human rights? is there any positive progress?
mr. president, every time a person is born, it's good news from god that we haven't stopped entertaining him. and that's why i always feel sorry when someone's life is taken away by force. and i'm even more sorry when it's taken away from someone who is considered a partner of the european union. in the case of bahrain, we already have a third resolution here, which deals with urgent cases, and as cristian preda mentioned, it is unfortunate that we are not paying attention to other countries as well. we have never discussed urgent resolutions on the cases of iranian citizens here at the european level. we're doing very little on executions in belarus and other countries. and i think that's a huge challenge for us, for politicians, to change that. i personally say that ppe is unacceptable in any way to take a human life. we didn't give a man life, we don't have the right to take it.
for the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, it has been shown that the level of economic development is directly proportional to the level of the rule of law. guatemala suffers from political impunity for the most serious crimes the murder of human rights defenders and brutal repression of the judiciary. but the violence has also affected the tribes of the country's indigenous people. with such a high level of rule of law, it is no wonder that the country is not doing well economically either. perhaps guatemala would not be the third largest recipient of development aid from the european union in central america if our pressure for change were a little stronger. we can make some improvements here, too. first, to link more human rights to development aid. secondly, listen to the part of today's resolution that calls on all member states to ratify the eu-central america association agreement. it will also make it possible to formally conduct a so-called political dialogue with guatemala and thus improve the human rights situation in this beautiful country.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the fundamental basis of a democracy is a strong and dynamic civil society. to have an active civil society, other elements also have to be present. for example, a minimum level of protection guaranteed by the state. human rights must be based on the rule of law and protected by an independent judicial system. we have to say it clearly. conditions in guatemala are not only worrying and risky for human rights defenders but for pluralism and democracy as a whole. guatemala has made great strides in the prosecution of corruption and human rights violations. but despite this, there are still tragic cases of targeted killings of journalists and human rights defenders in the country. as the european union we must strengthen our cooperation with guatemala to help this country to promote and consolidate a human rights agenda.
mr. chairman, i'd like to say that i have supported the draft directive on combating terrorism. i think this is a clear answer to citizens who are concerned about their safety, and i think it is exactly what they expect from the european parliament and from the european union. i welcome the unification of facts across the member states. the directive introduces criminal offences for travelling abroad for the purpose of terrorism, criminal sanctions for terrorist trainers, participation in the activities of terrorist groups, etc. the proposal also responds appropriately to the phenomenon of the increasing number of individuals travelling abroad for the purpose of terrorism, the so-called foreign fighters. the directive thus introduces a mandatory exchange of information on the movements of potential perpetrators of terrorist acts and gives more rights to victims of terrorist acts and strengthens their protection in the areas of health care, legal aid. i therefore believe that the draft directive is a really successful update of criminal law, leading to greater coherence of national criminal law provisions and thus responding to the security challenges facing the european union.
mr president, it is almost despairing to see the same people giving the same wrong answers to the key questions of european integration. mr verhofstadt, the author of this report, is one of them. he still dreams of a centralized 'eurostate', dreams of all power moving to brussels, to institutions like the european parliament, the european commission. unfortunately, the majority of the european parliament, although fortunately a small majority, still hears about this. and that's exactly the opposite direction of where we should be going. we do not need a centralized superstate, we need a flexible, decentralized, multi-speed europe, and i would not be afraid of a multi-speed europe, because that is the only way to get the architecture of the european union out of a dead end. i would recommend that czech voters read the report and, above all, read which czech meps voted for it. it certainly wasn't me.
mr president, i would point out that we should follow the rules of procedure and if anyone wishes to raise any objection, he should state at the outset, pursuant to rule 184 (a) of the rules of procedure, under which rule he is raising the objection. this is not parliament, but a cabaret, where anyone can perform and attack you as they please.
mr president, i would like to thank mr juncker. you are right, mr juncker, that we are standing at a crossroads, not because of brexit – which i am very sorry about – but because of a lack of agreement between union members and because of the unwillingness or inability of many politicians to explain the importance of the union for the future. so we are in a situation where every kind of future is possible. it will depend on our decision and on the decision of every european. we need to understand the achievements we have made in recent decades. we should also understand the weaknesses that we are now facing and we must be fully aware of the consequences of each decision. by presenting the white paper, mr juncker, you are forcing us to understand what the options at this crossroads are. i believe that this white paper will help us to decide, correctly and wisely, about our future in developing the joint project of a joint europe for the good of us all and of our people.
mr president, this white paper is certainly better than the report on institutional reform we recently adopted, in terms of analysing possible scenarios. finally, he offers scenarios that are realistic. let us not deceive the citizens by saying that we will provide what we cannot provide, because the european union does not have competence in certain matters. the european union alone cannot provide jobs for all, housing for all, housing care for all children and young people. the european union cannot accept all refugees who want a safe life. the citizens of the european union are well aware that the european union simply cannot provide all this. but they expect the european union, through its institutions and through the governments of the national states, to do what it must do and what follows from the commitments that the individual states have made. this means that the european union must ensure the free movement of persons, services and goods, and that, in the event of a threat, it will protect the security of its citizens and respond to be ready to protect its external borders.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, the 28 heads of state or government will be meeting in brussels next thursday, 9 march. on friday, 27 leaders will discuss their own preparations. i know you had intensive discussions last month on the future of europe, and i am aware of your contributions. today, however, i will concentrate on what is expected to happen next week. the discussions will focus on citizens’ main concerns, namely growth, external security and migration. let me take these subjects one by one. the emphasis will be, first and foremost, on economic issues with a number of important subjects featuring under the title jobs, growth and competitiveness. against the backdrop of the latest forecasts, leaders will have a political discussion on the economic situation in europe. the outlook overall is positive. the european council debate will certainly look at how best to use this positive momentum. the leaders will also touch upon trade. this subject has come to the forefront lately, not least because of recent declarations on the subject by one of our transatlantic partners. it is therefore a good time for europe to send a clear signal and reaffirm its belief in free and fair trade and the greater good that comes from sharing its benefits. i will take this occasion to thank you for giving your consent to the deal on the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta). it was an important step forward for all of us, and it is crucial for the credibility of the union. the last element under this economic chapter is the single market. the leaders will look at efforts to deepen the single market in all its dimensions. together, parliament and council have made good headway – most recently concerning the digital single market, with breakthrough agreements on roaming and portability. but a lot remains to be done and, if we are to meet the deadline we have set for ourselves of completing the single market by 2018, there is no time to lose. the second item on the agenda will be external security and defence. this topic was already discussed last december, as leaders are determined that europe needs to do more for its own security. a new momentum has developed: in march they will want to reinforce that message and ensure that the whole agenda moves forward as quickly as possible. another topic that leaders are following closely is migration. it was added to the agenda after discussions at the last informal meeting in malta. the leaders want to review what has been done to implement the decisions taken in february and to keep the pressure high, so that efforts are pooled to tackle the central mediterranean route. with the start of spring around the corner, leaders want to avoid any repetition of the tragedies of last year. of course, in parallel, work continues on all elements of the eu’s comprehensive approach and we will maintain vigilance on other migratory routes. there was also another outcome of the malta summit. the leaders decided to have a political discussion in march on the western balkans. signs coming from that region in recent months are increasingly worrying. leaders want to dedicate time to discussing the situation in detail and to send a strong signal of eu commitment to the region. lastly, the european council is expected to note the absence of consensus on the european public prosecutor’s office proposal, paving the way for reinforced cooperation on the issue. thank you very much for your attention. i am looking forward to this debate.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, if you will allow, we would like to share this introduction from our side. commissioner avramopoulos will go deeper into the migration issue. but first, we had a very interesting discussion just a little while ago about the future of europe. it was quite a visionary discussion and next week’s council will not, hopefully, be as visionary because the purpose of next week’s council meeting is rather to concentrate on short—term delivery, which is very important from the point of view of our citizens. the first priority for the commission next week will be to see the meeting of the leaders in the european council take concrete steps forward to deliver on jobs, growth and competitiveness. unemployment is still too high across europe, but it is now at its lowest level since 2009. we are moving in the right direction, but risk persists and we are not yet where we want to be. to continue our good progress, the commission would like to see the european council give its support next week to the swift extension of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). this will allow us to keep investing across europe in projects which stimulate economic growth and create jobs for europeans. in one and a half years efsi has already financed projects worth eur 30 billion, and this is expected to trigger around eur 170 billion in additional investments throughout europe. the european council will also talk about trade policy, which is another important policy area from the point of view of job creation. we need more rule—based trade. we hope that the european council will acknowledge the important vote in parliament on the approval of our progressive trade agreement with canada and i take this opportunity to praise you for this important decision. even those in this house who voted against the agreement with mr trudeau’s canada were quite impressed by his presence. so let me remind you of his words on this issue: ‘we must choose to lead the international economy, not simply be subject to its whims’. you know by now that this commission does not believe naively in trade. this is why we want the european council to give political impetus next week to our efforts to equip the union with modernised tools to tackle unfair trade. when others step back from rule—based trade, the european union must step forward and we have others, such as japan, mexico, mercosur and india, willing to do likewise and make sure that the rules of the game are the rules which best serve and protect our citizens and our societies. rule—based trade is the way to govern globalisation and that is why europe must move on with this agenda. i would now like to ask commissioner avramopoulos to continue on the other subject.
member of the commission. – madam president, the other topic which heads of state and government will need to discuss next week, as mr katainen said, is migration. even if we make progress in the management of the migratory flows, the situation is still very fragile. we all need to be committed to implementing the agreed – i repeat, the agreed – measures and finding a way forward to complete the structural reforms. the credibility of our actions inside the union, at our borders and in our migration management, is central to building mutual trust and to enabling us to act in a collective way. our comprehensive european agenda on migration contains elements of solidarity and responsibility. it demands that we take forward each element in parallel with the others. the success of one reinforces the others. in all areas we must both show solidarity and assume responsibility. now is the moment to prove what we really mean whenever we make reference to this basic principle upon which europe is built. and the more effectively we work with third-country partners on tackling the root causes of migration, the greater our capacity to ensure a fair and effective system of asylum and migration management here in the european union. march 2017 will be a month when many people look to europe’s past, and many people look to europe’s future. in the commission, we will make sure that we also shape europe’s present.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, in fact the three topics on the european council’s agenda – economy, security and what we call the political model – have to be in balance and i think that these three topics have to be a clear priority. as far as the question of security is concerned, let us be honest. what has the european union achieved in diplomatic terms in recent months and years? how strong and heavyweight a player have we been? i must say that it is not too optimistic and it is a matter of fact that you can hardly be a heavyweight diplomatic force without having defence and military capacity. that is the reality. that is also why we are not present in a number of important negotiations on critical conflict issues, which have had an impact on us, but which we have certain limits in influencing. so in this respect i do not agree with the previous speaker. it is a question of our credibility and i believe that a european defence is necessary to assert true security with goals, means and a strategy. it is crucial that together we pool our political will and capabilities. on the second issue, economics and especially on trade, i agree with vice—president katainen that ceta has to be ratified. i also believe that we need necessary and finely-tuned defence mechanisms. but what i believe even more is that we, as a heavyweight in economic terms well beyond our demography, should use that. it is not just a question of negotiating with japan and other countries at a time when we are at, shall we say, a standstill with the us. why do we not have our own agenda that we impose on the americans? our negotiating position is already influenced by that. there will of course be limits to it and we will have to see. finally, on migration, this is not the end of it. the migration problem will still be with us for many years to come. i believe that we need a true migration policy that will provide all the incentives and the tools that we need, but at the same time will take into account our own interests and also the specifics of the individual member states. so i expect that the european council will deliver on this. to be honest, what the presidency has told us today is not convincing. it is not an input into the political debate but has rather more technocratic elements.
mr president, we all agree that children are the most vulnerable, the most innocent victims in the wave of migrants coming to europe. and europe should show that it is aware of its responsibilities and that it is able to defend the best interests of the child. what, then, is the solution? many of you have already spoken about this. children must be identified, they must be given the protection and care they need. i don't think any of us will spare the means to carry out these measures. appropriate financial resources and human resources are needed. we have no restrictions on that. i want to urge you, commissioner, to be aware that you have our full support for all legislative measures and financial measures to take fingerprints, to identify children and to provide financial support for facilities where children will be adequately cared for.
in writing. thousands of nominally underage migrants have appeared in a number of eu countries in the last two years. they seem to benefit from information on the special conditions of children who come to the eu as migrants. since they have no identity documents and the age cannot be reliably determined by sight, many of these migrants are classified as minors on the basis of their own declarations. in the famous jungle of calais, they were nominally adults and nominally minors. the adults were moved to various refugee facilities throughout france, while the 'minors' eventually made their way to england. i'm not sure if such a policy is right, but i understand that younger migrants are more likely to influence their attitudes through upbringing. however, i cannot help but feel that the country of origin of its citizens should take care of them, rather than the country chosen by them and, of course, recommended by someone. in principle, it is irrelevant whether they are officially missing migrant minors or those whose whereabouts are known. in many eu countries, these official positions significantly reinforce xenophobic sentiments and increase the preferences of the far right. this increases the risk of the european union project's self-destruction.
in writing. the average difference between the wages or better hourly wages of a european man and a european woman doing the same job is an incredible 16 percent. however, in some countries the gap is even greater. in the czech republic, for example, inequality is at a record high of 21 percent. it seems to me totally unrealistic that in the 21st century women still have to work for 10 years longer in the same job, only to be paid the same as men at the end of their careers. this senseless social injustice must be removed as soon as possible. the artificial creation of gender-based differences in assessment is not just a simple sign of intolerable discrimination, but leads directly to a situation where a much higher percentage of women than men are at risk of poverty, even though women are statistically more educated. i believe that transparency is a necessary tool to successfully combat gender discrimination. so i'm in favor of more transparent pay and audit systems that will be able to close the two-month pay gap that men have for practically a year. i am firmly in favour of the demand of the socialist and democratic group that the pay gap between men and women be reduced by 2% over the next five years. delaying the resolution of the wage disadvantage of millions of european women is unjustifiable.
the question posed by the blue card. madam member, i just wanted to ask you if you were aware that the czech republic has had a law on protection against domestic violence for ten years and that this law is functional.
madam president, commissioner, i think it was solzhenitsyn who said: 'i know of no creature under the sun that has suffered as much as a russian woman.' it's possible that alexander isaevich had in mind, as did nekrasov's brave women of the genghis khan, but he certainly had in mind the thousands of russian women working in the gulag, on the construction of railways, in the fields of sovkhozes. he was referring to the horrors of war, when women lost their husbands and sons. he was talking about the brave russian women who died in the war. alexander isaevich lived through the chechen war in the 1990s. he certainly knew about the russian mothers who walked through the caucasus villages holding in their hands photographs of their lost sons, the sons that the russian generals chased to the chechen war slaughterhouse. solzhenitsyn knew well the weight of russian everyday life. he knew about the way russian men drown their souls in vodka, and he felt sorry for their wives. solzhenitsyn was not shy about his respect for russian women. it is a pity that he did not live to see the new law passed by the russian duma, according to which domestic violence against women is no longer considered a crime, but a mere misdemeanor. he would be the first to explain where the violence in the russian soul comes from.
madam president, 26 years ago it was in moscow that the osce member states agreed to work towards the elimination of all forms of violence against women. it is ironic that after 26 years, all forms of violence against women are returning and the harsher punishment is being abolished. one in three women in russia faces domestic violence. it's not that there's no threat of violence in russia, but the opposite. the petitioners argue that this is an internal matter of the traditional russian family, and the proposal decriminalizes domestic violence against children and spouses. the offence will be considered more serious than a fracture of the upper arm. in the previous state, it was very difficult for women to help out at home. now it's going to be even more complicated. i don't know if it's worth challenging president putin to propose a change to the law when he signed it a month ago. but i believe we must speak up and support those who have the courage to stand up against violence. i expect it to be the voice of churches and other organizations and individuals who have not yet given up the fight for humane and dignified living conditions in russia.
for the group gue/ngl. madam president, i take today's discussion on the need for a balanced representation of women and men in the judicial profession at the european court of justice as a reminder of the persistent inequality between women and men, which we want to combat. but i think we should focus on the issue of women's participation in the labour market and their pay. the difference in hourly earnings between men and women in the czech republic, for example, is 22 percent. lower wages, of course, are reflected in the amount of pensions. for example, after a divorce, women find themselves on the brink of poverty. another huge problem is the lack of available services for mothers with children, which leads to a reduction in the participation of women in the labour market. this fact increases the social costs of the state. the gender issue is very broad and i hope we will not limit ourselves to the case of the court of justice of the european union. we must do our utmost to enable women to reconcile family life with the necessary professional growth.
madam president, i would simply point out that the ratio of men to women is indeed almost equal, fifty-one to forty-nine per cent in the european population, and that i really see no reasonable reason why a similar ratio should not be represented in the european court of justice. on the other hand, i don't think it should be an absolute dogma. i am in favour of no discrimination on grounds of sex, but simply that the best lawyers should sit in this highly respected institution, the european court of justice. i am of course in favour of the representation of women, the transitional quota, that is to say, that there should be some transitional provisions to allow for a greater representation of women in the european court of justice. but let's not really stigmatize people based on their gender. i'm confident we can reach a reasonable agreement.
for the s&d group. mr president, the european union has long been importing more than half of its energy from abroad. very often from countries that consider energy resources as an instrument of their foreign policy, which is totally unacceptable. europe must respond by taking a clear and strong stance in energy supply negotiations. therefore, a greater degree of transparency in the negotiation of international agreements, in particular on the supply of oil and natural gas, is more than necessary. the more intensive exchange of information and the possibility for the commission to participate in these negotiations as an observer is the way to improve our position. the commission must also ensure, by means of notification, that such contracts are fully in line with the rules of the internal energy market of the european union. i believe that this is a positive change, not after the agreements are concluded but during the negotiations. in the meantime, suppliers are still applying double standards to individual countries, and this is a major problem. i see behind this their attempt to weaken the strong european position, a divide and rule tactic, so to speak. that's the kind of decision we have to prevent. the contracts concluded must mitigate the adverse impact on other states. the new information exchange mechanism will therefore lead to increased cooperation, mutual trust, transparency and deeper solidarity across the energy union, which i consider to be a fundamental prerequisite for ensuring our energy security.
mr. chairman, i would like to begin by apologizing to mr. kukana, who cannot be in the chamber for personal reasons. however, i would like to talk about the energy union from the point of view of security. i am in favour of energy security and the internal market being closely linked. what commissioner cañete said in his opening statement is very important. europe is a huge market and we are under-utilizing that space. i believe it is important to set the timetable for the energy union to become a real priority for the european union and its institutions. we have to be transparent, that's for sure. in the negotiation of various agreements, europe represents a huge internal market and we should actually plan our future on this basis. our position as a large internal market allows us to negotiate the best terms. i wish we were aware of that.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, first of all, let me thank the rapporteur for her work. i believe that the document contains a reference to all the major problems which today make it difficult for citizens in the european union to access medicines. the most fundamental, from my point of view, is the problem of so-called parallel re-exports, which particularly affects countries like mine. the european union institutions and the member states should make every effort to prevent parallel trade in pharmaceutical products on the most lucrative markets, as this leads to shortages of a number of medicines, which pose exceptionally high risks to the health of citizens, who are often even forced to discontinue treatment. i believe the report is clear on this point. i also think we have succeeded in calling for a solution to the outdated intellectual property right of total control, which today allows the re-patenting of a product that has been only slightly modified, in order to extend the term of protection of a medicine at the expense of finding new ones. that's why i'm shocked by the amendments tabled by the right wing, which is trying to protect these abhorrent practices of the pharmaceutical industry. i hope my colleagues will come to their senses and not be part of something like this. what should be emphasised again in the context of yesterday's rare disease day is that the development of new innovative medicines cannot be guided solely by the rules of the market and the cost-benefit mantra, as the commissioner said here today. i hope that this document has untied the hands of the commission and the member states and that we will see some solution in this legislative period.
the question posed by the blue card. mr president, you said that the situation in health care in central europe is worse than in other member states of the european union. i ask you very specifically: what countries in central europe are you talking about? because i believe that in the czech republic, despite its problems, the health care provided to patients is of a very high standard and i do not want to talk about this country as if the situation is worse or that patients do not have access to treatment there.
dear commissioner, i would like to thank everyone who helped peter yashko to be free. a czech aid worker was held for 14 months in sudanese prisons and eventually unjustly sentenced to 24 years in prison. his name was included in a resolution adopted by this parliament last october. thanks to pressure from czech and european diplomacy, sudanese president omar bashir granted him clemency on sunday, february 26, and ordered his immediate release. we all could see his great joy as he stood with czech foreign minister zaorálek and ambassador to egypt šmigolová before departing for home. i think that together with the diplomatic pressure of the european union, it was the great diplomatic commitment of minister zaorálek and the czech ambassador that led to the release of petr jasek. thanks to them and thanks to god, petr jašek is alive and free. it's an encouragement to us all that love and truth have triumphed once again.
mr president, i would like to emphasise that creative europe is in fact the only financial instrument of the european union that supports creators in the arts, including the audiovisual arts, and involves cultural institutions and heritage managers. its strengths are therefore to create new financing opportunities for joint cultural and artistic projects, bringing together creators, cultural heritage managers and institutions. it's not about investment, building or rebuilding, but it's about investing in human capital that pays off. artists have always been people who understood the context and saw further into the future. it's only because of them that we have a legacy here that we can look at and listen to hundreds of years after their deaths. of course, the promotion of culture is primarily the task of the nation-states. but the role of the european union is that we can make better use of the common european space for artists and for citizens. it's a great motivation and mutual inspiration that we must not waste. the budget is relatively low, 0.14% of the mff was mentioned. we could say almost negligible given the wealth that culture provides. but it's still got a big following, a big interest, and we must be sorry and not be cold about how low the success rate of the culture program is, 15%. what's 15% of those who ask? there's a real risk of demotivation of applicants here. i want to emphasise that we have a good experience with contact points in the member states, it's not that someone can't learn how to draw. on the contrary, there is a lot of interest and the contact points are doing a good job. our committee resolution calls for increased funding and simplified administration. i think it's not a formal request, but we know why we're asking and what a wealth of culture europe has.
mr president, it is typical that the 'europe for citizens' programme is criticised by the national front and other extremist parties. populists and extremists need people to forget history so that history can repeat itself. the 'europe for citizens' programme is intended to help civil society actions, municipalities, as mentioned by ms smolková, to exchange ideas, to get to know each other better, to reflect on the history and also on the future of our common europe. the only drawback to this program is its underfunding. indeed, €185 million over six years is only a token amount for such an important programme. i have to give a positive assessment of the management of this programme, the contact points and also the simplification of the operation. europe is built on the support of its citizens, and the european union has no future without the understanding and support of the citizens themselves. if we want to avoid a repeat of the devastating history of war, we must support civil... (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, i voted for this report, and i support all the reports in parliament on the energy union. it is very important to me that we have a real energy union, that our internal energy market is not so fragmented. i think we must take full advantage of our great internal market, that is to say, we must achieve the lowest possible prices, we must achieve innovative energy management. this includes, of course, the obligation to introduce a higher degree of transparency into the negotiation of these intergovernmental agreements. i welcome this ex ante rule, i think it is necessary and will lead to a more efficient commission action in the negotiation of these intergovernmental agreements. the existing rule was insufficient, as many years of practice have shown.
mr president, i understand the loyalty between member states, but everything has its limits. i think that the rights of two sovereign countries to set up rules of interaction between citizens and visa requirements should remain in the hands of those sovereign states and should not be subject to some kind of hostage-taking at the european level. we have experienced a situation similar to that of the czech republic before, when canada introduced visas for our country. we have been made clear by some of the member countries of the european union that they will not risk for our sake their good relations with canada, that they will not risk jeopardizing their visa-free access to canada. i totally understand that, but in this case, i think we have the right to be treated the same, and i don't think that can be used to blackmail us with a question of loyalty.
mr. chairman, i just voted in favor of this resolution. because we, as the czech republic, have experienced what romania and bulgaria are experiencing today with canada. i think it is very important that countries cooperate in the area of visa reciprocity. it is not possible for people from third countries to travel to the european union without a visa and for some european citizens to travel to those countries and have to obtain a visa. unfortunately, this is the case in a few countries today, and we are depriving european citizens of their benefits. i therefore support this resolution and call on the european commission to do everything possible to eliminate this inequality between the european union and third countries.
mr president, it is no coincidence that many of us in the czech parliament are speaking out in favour of visa reciprocity. the czech republic has taken the initiative in 2013 to adopt regulation (eu) no 1289/2013 which obliges the commission to act in the field of visa reciprocity. that deadline laid down in the regulation expired in april last year and i am therefore convinced that the commission does not have a margin of discretion in this case. on the contrary, he is in a situation where he does not act. i am therefore pleased that the visa requirement for czech citizens to travel to canada has now been lifted and that by the end of 2017, the visa requirement with canada will also be lifted for bulgaria and romania, also thanks to the diplomatic work of the commission. the visa reciprocity agreement with the united states of america is still pending, of course the united states of america has a new president and a new administration. however, i think that the commission should negotiate, should negotiate with determination and confidence.
mr president, i too supported this motion because i believe that it is indeed discrimination against european citizens. the creation of a double standard of european citizenship in any direction is intolerable. the direction of our solidarity support for those countries which do not yet have a visa-free regime is absolutely necessary in order not to create a double citizen category. i also remember a period when the european union was a bit inactive in the matter of visas, which were imposed on czech citizens by canada, but at the end of that period, as far as i know, we already received support. and after four years, that visa requirement was terminated. i wanted to express the same solidarity with my colleagues from the countries concerned by my vote today. because to do otherwise would be rather pharisaic on our part.
mr president, i also supported this report by the european parliament because i consider it very useful for the member states to cooperate in the protection of public health. this is not, of course, some necessary cross-regulation, but really cooperation, especially in the area of information and best practice. cooperation is also necessary in the area of research investment, in particular in the development of medicines for rare diseases where research investment by commercial entities is insufficient. i also think it is necessary to extend the obligation to ensure the supply of medicinal products not only to distributors but also to the manufacturers who supply them. but the protection of human health cannot be reduced to a mere pharmaceutical policy. they must also focus on prevention and on healthy lifestyles and responsible use of medicines.
mr president, i too have supported this report. i think it is very important to promote research, development, innovation and, of course, the exchange of information in the field of pharmaceutical policy. there's been a lot of talk about that here, and from colleagues, and i'm joining in. however, i would like to mention one more aspect which has not been mentioned here, and that is the question of transparency in the field of pricing policy. this is very important because very often, when an expensive medicine is replaced by a certain generic, this replacement is accompanied by a dispute that very often arises out of competition, unfair competition, protection of intellectual property rights. these disputes undoubtedly make it very expensive to place these substitutes on the market and, as a result, to make medicines and their availability more expensive. we should try to prevent this by defining a precise legal framework for possible intellectual property disputes.
mr president, i did not hesitate to support this report, as it contains many suggestions for increasing the effectiveness of the creative europe programme, following the previous systematic monitoring of its implementation to date. the main problem to be addressed is the lack of quality management of the whole programme, which is accompanied by a very low number of supported projects. one example of all of these, and i think it's very alarming, is the extremely low success rate of refugee integration projects. this rate is less than five percent. i also believe that everything must be done to maximise the effectiveness of the programme as a whole, including increasing its transparency, simplifying communication between the various actors and making it more visible within the member states of the european union.
mr president, we vote with iron regularity on reports that pour public money, taxpayers' money, into various propaganda projects, and i dare say ideologically motivated projects. it's one of them, the one we're discussing right now. i have never supported, do not support and will not support anything of this kind, because i do not think it is possible to create a common european public opinion or a european nation or a european consciousness by means of artificial methods and programmes of this kind. if it can come into existence at all, it must come into existence by some evolutionary process, evolving naturally, and cannot be dogmatically determined by any such program. i think it is a waste of taxpayers' money and i think the european parliament is making a mistake in repeatedly supporting such programmes in the first place.
mr. chairman, i'm used to always speaking at the end, because zdechovsky will never be at the beginning of the alphabet. i was just a little confused when you said my name as shogor at the beginning, because no one had ever said my name like that before, and i was confused because there was something else on the board. it's about what we voted for. i voted for this report, unlike my colleagues in the european conservatives and reformists group, because it rightly criticises the major shortcomings of the 'europe for citizens' programme. it's clear how much nonsense there is, that you don't need to qualify things quantitatively, but look at the qualitative structure of the whole program. there's been a 14% cut in the budget. i think we're not going to build strong relationships with citizens based on cutting budgets, but we're going to look at the structure of those programs and how those programs are actually made to be of quality and to deliver some kind of efficiency. that's what i've been criticizing for a long time. i'm sorry i overdid it, but i spent the first 17 seconds explaining why i reacted the way i did before.
mr president, i know that your procedure is very democratic and i have great respect for the way you give your colleagues the floor, but i would like to recall rule 184a of the rules of procedure. if he wants to make these statements, he should have asked for a one-minute speech, as we all do when we want to make similar statements. i ask you to refer him to the one-minute parts of the debate in accordance with rule 184a so that he can make his comments in the one-minute parts.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate my colleagues on the agreement reached on the draft mercury regulation. i am very pleased to note that the european parliament has once again managed to improve the original proposal of the european commission considerably. the new rules aim to strengthen protection against pollution by this highly toxic substance and the agreed changes will ensure that eu legislation is in line with the international rules laid down in the minamata convention. this will allow the eu to ratify the text of the convention quickly, thus paving the way for its early entry into force. cooperation at global level is key and essential: pollution by this substance knows no borders and, while the annual demand for mercury in the eu has fallen to around 400 tonnes since the entry into force of regulation (ec) no 1102/2008, global consumption remains high at 3 600 tonnes per year. mercury poses a serious threat to human health, precisely because of the presence of its compound methylmercury in fish and seafood. and in this respect, it is alarming that more than 13% of fish samples from around the world would probably not be recommended for commercial sale by either the who or the european commission. clearly, without international cooperation, this problem simply cannot be solved. it is positive that the proposal finally takes a rational approach to the gradual reduction of amalgam starting with particularly vulnerable groups and aiming at a total ban. i am also glad that the envi committee did not support some of the problematic proposals. i consider the agreement reached to be highly successful, balanced and i unequivocally support and recommend its adoption.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, first of all i would like to thank my colleague mr cofferati for the great work he has done. today we're discussing a proposal to revise the existing shareholder rights directive. the proposal aims to address shortcomings in the governance of listed companies. in practice, it will involve some 10 000 of the largest companies listed on european stock exchanges. with this proposal, we want to involve shareholders more in the companies they have invested in. we want shareholders to be able to exercise proper control over the management of companies and not let managers take frequent short-term and excessive risks. second, and i think this is important, we want shareholders to be able to decide on the corporate policy of compensating the executives. at present, only a few member states allow shareholders to intervene in directors' salaries. we demand that the executive pay levels be approved by the general assembly. according to statistics, only 15 member states today require disclosure of remuneration policy data and 11 require disclosure of directors' salaries. i hope that this proposal is only the first step towards greater transparency in the area of company law.
mr president, commissioner, first of all, let me thank all my colleagues on the committee on legal affairs, and in particular the rapporteur, mr cofferati, for their part in bringing about an acceptable compromise in the trialogue. the result is a good response to the need to support long-term strategic investors. the financial crisis of 2008-2012 taught us that. i personally voted against the original version of the report in the juri committee because i think that the original text deviated too much from the model we should be applying in the eu, which is the social market economy model. the social market economy represents for me an ideal model, where the rights of both employees and employers are guaranteed. a model that is neither unregulated savage capitalism nor overregulated socialism. i therefore consider it good that the final text does not contain the part on so-called country-by-country reporting, which does not belong there, as do other similar parts. so, in tomorrow's vote, i can support the agreed motion as it came out of the trilogue.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 14 march 2017. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by ernest urtasun, on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, on equality between women and men in the european union in 2014-2015 (2016/2249(ini)) (a8-0046/2017),– the report by agnieszka kozłowska-rajewicz, on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, on the application of council directive 2004/113/ec implementing the principle of equal treatment between men and women in the access to and supply of goods and services (2016/2012(ini)) (a8—0043/2017), and– the report by clare moody, on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, on eu funds for gender equality (2016/2144(ini)) (a8—0033/2017).
rapporteur to the committee on legal affairs. mr president, i now come to the floor as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs on the directive on equal access for men and women to goods and services. there is generally little awareness of the directive, which covers such crucial issues as equal access to employment, healthcare, education, social services and housing. in the committee on legal affairs we have noted that certain shortcomings in the implementation of this directive still persist. in some cases, services are provided only to persons of the same sex or different prices are charged for the same services. pregnant women or parents and caregivers of young children require special attention. we still have a lot of work to do in the gender field, for example, we need to focus on equal pay for equal work or pension equality. there's still room for improvement.
mr president, allow me to comment on the report on equality between women and men for 2014-2015. i would like to thank in particular my colleague, mr urtasun, who has gathered a great deal of factual information and has pointed out the major trends in this field. the report objectively notes an improvement in the situation, albeit very small, very slow and insufficient. the positive thing, of course, is the increase in female education, which now accounts for 60% of university graduates. the number of women in political office has increased slightly, to 29% today. however, we cannot be satisfied with the fact that the disparities persist, especially in wages, 16% at the expense of women, in pensions, 40% at the expense of women. the higher representation of men in company management remains, at 71%. and of course, we continue to see a lot of violence, which is also widespread in the eu, with 33% of women experiencing physical violence. however, what prevents the improvement of the conditions for a better distribution of caring roles in the family is mainly that member states do not allow, for example, paternity leave, 1/4 of member states do not allow this, 8 member states do not have paid parental leave. it is clear that women today are not discriminated against because they are women, but because they simply have a different status in society than men, because they have an irreplaceable role as mothers. and that also includes their role as caregivers. today, 97% of women take care of their children on parental leave. so this is the main reason for the income gap. unfortunately, i cannot agree with the one-sided ideological approach of this report, which does not appreciate the work of caring mothers and parents, and treats the traditional division of roles in the family one-sidedly, only critically, as stereotypes. i shall therefore also be proposing some amendments and if they are not adopted i shall not be able to support this report.
the question posed by the blue card. thank you for accepting the blue card. i wanted to ask you, madam speaker, your speech was quite stimulating, however, how do you assess the situation where in poland there is no such difference in pay between men and women, this is indeed evidenced by the european ranking, but there are countries, such as my country, unfortunately, the czech republic, where these differences are staggering, it is 22% of the difference in pay between men and women. how do you view this situation? i think we should condemn it, in my opinion, it's quite appropriate.
mr president, as regards the matter at hand, i should like to begin by saying that the polish colleague mentioned earlier did not appear, and that we were spared some of his innuendoes and nonsense, which we unfortunately had to hear from the women's side in the last debate. i would also like to acknowledge the role and rights of women in this context. i also want to support the eu's efforts on equality, because the eu has undoubtedly made unprecedented progress in this field over many decades. it is no longer direct discrimination, but indirect discrimination. and there's still work to be done, of course, as you can see from the statistics. i do not want to dwell on the domestic issue, but i have already mentioned that in the czech republic the wages women receive are significantly lower by 22%. i think we should do something about that in our own backyard. i think that no one can agree with that, however many ideologically coloured statements there are in the report. i'd like to support her.
mr president, i was the shadow rapporteur on this report with my colleague mr eck and i would like to say on behalf of the ppe that i believe that we have reached a minimum agreement on the standards in rabbit breeding. i think that these minimum standards should not be a universal dictate, but should actually include the lowest level that we can agree on across the political spectrum. and the question here is whether rabbits should be kept in enriched cages or whether they should be kept in other harsh conditions, certainly not. i don't want to encourage rabbits to be raised in a way that actually interferes with their good standard of living, their good quality of life, but i do think we need to promote a balance between the rights of farmers, of breeders and of rabbits. i think that in that sense a backlog has been made in this report.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her report, we have five horses in our own household, so i am very fond of these animals. i have to say, i really want to look after their well-being, along with, i suppose, you, for that matter. but i also want to point out that the rapporteur said that we are not in a legal vacuum when we have horses. there is a legal basis here that can be used for horse breeding. in this respect, the report is clearly different from the one we discussed in the previous point, namely the call for new legislation on rabbit farming. i would like to say that i also see strong points in the report, such as the support for the rural economy from the breeding of these animals, because both in the field of tourism and tourism, the breeding of these animals can be very useful. the rapporteur also touched on problem areas such as the transport of these animals. i think the report is excellent and i'm happy to support it.
mr. chairman, i'd like to comment on the gun legislation that we're going to be debating here tomorrow. i want to welcome the changes that were made to the bill, which, for example, defined the weapon by a certain likeness. i think that's a very incredible example of legal amateurism. on the other hand, i welcome the fact that this definition has been dropped, but there are a number of shortcomings in the proposal which we are trying to point out with our colleagues from different countries across the political spectrum. i am trying to ensure that those who are legally in possession of firearms, who have a permit to carry them and who are not committing any criminal activity, can continue to carry them, even if they have a higher number of wounds. at the same time, i would also like to ensure the legal certainty of the users of paintball guns and therefore of these games, i.e. to improve the legal protection of gun owners, that should be our goal.
mr president, commissioner, the czech television channel prima has recently reported on numerous cases of lorry drivers who have been unjustly fined by the british authorities for transporting illegal migrants on the road through calais. the cases look exactly the same. migrants trying to enter the uk illegally, sneak into the cargo bay without the driver's knowledge, and are then detected on the british side. unfortunately, the fines are issued even when the drivers have valid security clearances from the french police. in addition to the drivers, the transportation industry is also financially affected, which is devastating for many businesses. ultimately, honest drivers are the ones most affected, losing their appetite for their job, and some companies are even considering withdrawing from the market. the british police and authorities must urgently rethink their approach, the situation is unsustainable. and we need to discuss how to change it.
i declare open the 2017-2018 session of the european parliament.
the next item is the report by vicky ford, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 91/477/eec on control of the acquisition and possession of weapons (com(2015)0750 – c8—0358/2015 – 2015/0269(cod)) (a8—0251/2016).
for the alde group. mr president, commissioner, we are all in agreement here we want a secure europe. so why don't we all stand up and applaud this material that is supposed to increase security in europe? why did he find opponents across the political spectrum in the member states? why, against all expectations, instead of addressing the real security challenges, did you focus on restricting the rights of legal gun owners? to restrict the rights of people who haven't committed or perpetrated any terrorist attacks. and yet there is so much to be done in terms of safety. we don't have a clear policy on deactivating weapons. we have no rules for converting weapons of any kind, and yet the very weapons officially listed as malfunctioning were killed at the bataclan club in paris. we lack closer cooperation between member states, which should exchange security information more quickly and efficiently. we're unable to provide traceability of weapons, control their movement and movement between states, and i could go on. commissioner, you recently wrote that people who have no bad intentions need not fear directives. he's wrong, he's scared! i meet people like that on a regular basis. they are sport and recreational shooters, thinkers, but also former and current members of the security forces. legal owners of guns. and they're afraid of the guidelines. they're even afraid of losing their guns. thanks to the pressure of the european parliament, the text has been largely corrected. unfortunately, we've only made it halfway. moreover, we lack logical arguments for a number of measures. and if they exist, you should have presented them. but the commission apparently considered the development of an impact study to be unnecessary, and so today, after more than a year, we are still deciding from the table and blindly. this is an irresponsible interference with the freedom of eu citizens. i have therefore tabled a number of amendments and would like to invite the house to consider its position and to support them. this is a sensitive subject and it is the first time we have decided on it here in plenary. commissioner, look around you. we cannot, in the present situation, allow ourselves to adopt nonsensical and illogical legislation and continue to undermine the trust of our citizens in the eu. there's more at stake than you think. (the rapporteur has agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. mr president, i agree with you completely. if there's one thing we're missing here in the eu right now, it's clear rules for deactivation. that was one of the problems with terrorist attacks. and we are glad that our group, the alde group, has made the adoption of this directive conditional from the outset on having clear rules for deactivation. yes, we slept here.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, if we had a proposal on the table that would demonstrably increase security in the eu, i would be the first to raise my hand in favour of it. but i'm convinced that's not our case. the draft directive we're voting on tomorrow doesn't solve anything in my opinion. it focuses on restricting the rights of legally acquired gun owners, sport shooters, and historical gun collectors. it is difficult to see what positive effect the new legislation will have, as we have not received any expert analysis from the commission despite repeated requests. but i think we can all agree that a terrorist is hardly ever going to buy a gun in a brick and mortar store. strict bans on certain types of legally acquired and held weapons will cause a large proportion of these weapons to move into the illegal sphere. or worse, on the black market. this makes these weapons potentially available to criminals and terrorists. i'm not so sure that the bill we're proposing is in any way reducing the risk of another terrorist attack.
the question posed by the blue card. madam colleague, i would like to ask if you are aware that the re-activation of a properly deactivated weapon is just as demanding a process as the manufacture of a new weapon. and if you also know that there are millions of human storage containers that no one has ever registered. the storage tank is a consumer product and this directive, as agreed today, will also register storage tanks?
ms corazza bildt, i do apologise but we have a limit on the blue-card questions and i have to stick to it. (ms winberg, you have half a minute for the answer).
mr. chairman, allow me to make a few comments as a member of the imco committee on this gun directive. firstly, the commission proposal that was put forward, commissioner, was extremely poor. you talk about the commission's ambition, but that proposal, commissioner, is what caused us to vote today on a compromise that was not carried out. the original proposal bullied not only sports shooters, thinkers, but also museum owners and curators, collectors, etc. he certainly wasn't dealing with terrorists. here on the floor of the house, madam rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs have done their best with this proposal, they have really improved it considerably, and i want to thank them. but i must say, this compromise is still unacceptable to me. the compromise further restricts legal gun ownership. yes, there may be an exception, states will be able to say that current gun owners will not be affected, but potential future owners who would like to buy semi-automatic weapons will not be able to do so. that means we're interfering with the lawful possession of firearms. it's not true that future legal gun ownership is excluded, and that's simply unacceptable to me. there is a compromise here that may not harm current owners, it is better than the original draft directive, but it is a compromise that i can hardly explain to my citizens, to my constituents, i can hardly say why people will not be able to buy semi-automatic weapons in the future. so it would be better to withdraw the directive and consider another proposal.
mr president, mr juncker presented five plans for the future of the eu a while ago. one of them was that the eu would do less and do better. i would like to, but in this case, unfortunately, the eu is doing more and doing worse. if the european parliament is frustrated that people don't take it very seriously and that there is low voter turnout in european elections, then let's repeal 100 directives or give half of the european budget from 2020 to protect the external borders from illegal migrants and terrorists, because by the way this directive will be useless in the fight against terrorism, the terrorists will laugh at it because of course they will always have a black market, and the only thing this directive proves is that it is vague, destabilizes effective national gun legislation, like in my country, and becomes a tool of the bureaucratic bully of decent people, decent gun owners. i will not be a party to that in any way and i will not support this directive.
mr. chairman, you want to fight terrorism by restricting the right to bear arms to ordinary, upstanding citizens. that's absurd, you should have done something else, you should have protected the borders and not let in millions of illegal immigrants. i know that none of these terrorists used a legally-held weapon, whether it was a machine gun, whether it was a truck, whether it was an axe or a knife. i ask myself why you do this, and i see the answer. you're obsessed with regulation, so we're gonna regulate gun ownership today, we're gonna regulate rabbit cages, next it's gonna be internet regulation, and i feel like the citizens have had enough, at least in my country. in the czech republic, not only is the majority of meps here in the european parliament opposed to this gun directive, but the government is opposed to it, and our patience has run out.
colleagues, for those of you who were not present, i have already stated that i will not accept any more blue cards for reason of time.
mr president, i think that the european parliament has made a major change to the commission's original proposal, which was unacceptable, and i would like to thank both rapporteurs. we all agree that common standards for the possession, deactivation and trade of arms should be set at eu level to prevent the illicit trade in arms. we should be able to exchange information right across europe. but i am very sorry that the directive, the compromise which we are now putting to the vote, still contains unacceptable proposals on details such as the holding of stocks, details which should be left to the member states to adjust. on the contrary, it does not impose the obligation of compulsory medical examinations, which are essential for gun owners. i will vote for the amendments and if they are not passed, i will not be able to support this compromise.
mr. chairman, i'm not a thinker or a marksman, i don't collect guns. i'm one of those guys who plays napoleonic-era soldiers like a tambourine. can you imagine, in a reenactment of the battle of waterloo, instead of historical ancestors, people running around with wooden sticks, shouting, "boom, boom"? what will the 100,000 viewers say? you can't be serious. we will not get more security from the proposed directive, and the authors of this directive are already being laughed at by illegal gun owners, terrorists and criminals.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you all for today’s debate. the first vice-president is actually already aware, here, but i will make sure that i report on it fully to commissioners bieńkowska and avramopoulos and other colleagues who have worked on this dossier over the months. this is a difficult area and i am the first to recognise that. i understand the concerns that some of you have voiced on the importance of guaranteeing the rights of legal firearm owners such as sport shooters, hunters and collectors. personally, i think that is what the revised directive before you today does. anyone needing to hold a firearm for a demonstrated legal use, such as sport shooting or for exhibiting in a museum, will still be able to do so, as a number of speakers, not least the rapporteur and other members of parliament who worked directly on the text, have made clear. what we are doing with this revised text is making sure that the most dangerous firearms do not fall into the wrong hands. a number of you have asked about the assessment the commission made. right at the start of this work, we conducted a number of studies. these were done in consultation with member state authorities and stakeholders all across europe, including hunting, collecting and sport shooter federations. those studies actually pointed to some of the security loopholes in the existing directive which, unfortunately, were confirmed in reality and which are being addressed in this text. a report based on those studies was presented to this house and the council earlier on in this process. a number of you also asked about tackling deactivation. we agree, and that is why we are doing work to reinforce the regulation on deactivation. it is going to be revised and strengthened by national experts to address the very technical issues that had been flagged by people in this house. a number of us have spoken about the europol study that has just come out, which addresses this area. it underlines that firearms traffickers are highly adept at exploiting legal loopholes and differences in the regulatory regimes between member states. they do that to divert firearms from legal suppliers. the reactivation of deactivated weapons and the conversion of blank firing weapons are among the main sources of illegal firearms trafficking in the eu. that is why we need to clarify the rules. but increasing the clarity of the rules around the possession and acquisition of illegal firearms is not sufficient. again, i am the first to recognise that. we need a comprehensive approach, including taking forward the fight against illicit firearms trafficking, as a number of you have underlined. indeed, the europol report that we have been referring to points to the proliferation and availability of illegal firearms in member states and that that increases the risk of their use by criminals and terrorist groups. that is why the commission is working closely with member states on the implementation of the action plan against the trafficking of illegal weapons and explosives, and we count on your support in reinforcing that fight against illegal firearms trafficking. a number of you have underlined the importance of implementation. again, once this revised directive is agreed, it will need to be implemented in the member states, and we will work with you to ensure that this is done effectively and in the spirit of the text. to conclude, i would just like to say that i hope that the revised firearms directive can now be adopted. we, and many of you, have done intensive work to achieve a good and balanced text that will enhance the security of our citizens, which is our shared objective.
thank you, commissioner. for the sake of clarity as regards the impact assessment, was there an impact assessment that was assessed by the impact assessment board, or just a number of studies?
member of the commission. – mr president, as i described, there are a number of studies and they were summed up in a report.
and that was assessed by the impact assessment board?
in writing. this new firearms directive is, in my view, full of errors and is quite ridiculous not only to the experts but also to the public at large. this is primarily because it contains many errors and ambiguities. these are very important aspects of gun ownership! they are not sufficiently discussed and often lack both legal reason and logic. one example of all is the cartridges the proposed reduction in the size of the cartridge from 30 to 10 rounds is nonsense and has no logical justification. the magazine was never, is not, and never will be the main part of a weapon. so this proposal as it stands requires a number of changes that i and a few colleagues have proposed. and if we want this legislation to make sense, we have to pass it. to think that by restricting the possession of legal weapons we will prevent terrorists from committing their acts is naive. if we really want to stop terrorists from doing what they do, we must first fight illegal weapons. but they will not be affected by the proposed directive.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, let me start where simona bonafè also started, by thanking everybody involved in this, especially the rapporteur here in your chamber and also, on my side, commissioner vella, vice-president katainen, and those involved in the excellent work done by our services. some of the people concerned are sitting behind me, as are their parliament counterparts. their work was also of very high quality. i came to this house in december 2015 to present our ambitious programme for the circular economy, and karmenu vella was here in january of this year to update you on developments. i have always insisted that waste is just one part of the circle that we must tackle to achieve circular systems, but it is definitely a crucial one. we will never close the loop if we just keep throwing away or burning finite resources. the individual resources in our waste are just too valuable to burn or to bury in a hole in the ground. that is why waste reduction and modern waste management are essential parts of the material loops in a circular economy. state—of—the—art waste management is key to the success of the circular economy in europe. waste ceases to be a problem and becomes an opportunity when it is properly managed. scrap contains precious materials and retrieving them creates profits and jobs, and reduces our dependency on raw material imports – a very different story from the complaints we regularly receive about hazardous, unsightly, and often illegal landfills. we are moving in the right direction. recycling rates in the eu have been increasing. land filling is decreasing. but europe still loses around 600 million tons of waste materials per year, which could otherwise be recycled or reused. we can do something about this. eu waste policy and legislation have been key drivers for resource efficiency, growth and job creation. a swift adoption of the waste legislative proposals will further boost the markets for secondary raw materials and support a viable recycling sector and, what is more, the draft legislation we are discussing today has the potential to change for the better the whole life cycle of products in the wider economy. i would like, once again, to thank simona bonafè for her excellent work, and all the colleagues involved for their commitment and ambition and the good results that have been produced. the impressive number of amendments and the intensive discussions in parliament have demonstrated the importance of the issue. it is equally important to agree the package so that it starts making a real difference on the ground. all the stakeholders are waiting for this and, with this package, they are all on board, which is something we also need to cherish. in december, along with the council, we adopted together a joint declaration on the eu’s legislative priorities for 2017. the waste proposals are part of this selective list. so let us do all we can to come to a viable agreement during the first reading. there will of course – and simona indicated this – be much focus on the target levels. i take note of the ambitious levels to which parliament is committed. at the same time, i believe our proposals strike a good balance by setting targets that are challenging but feasible for the member states to achieve. i am also glad to see parliament taking into account the fact that some countries may need additional time to achieve the targets. while it is important that member states make continuous efforts, the mechanism for granting time extensions should be simple and should ensure legal, policy and investment certainty for all involved.the levels of the targets should be seen together with the rules for calculating them: this will determine the true level of ambition. it is encouraging that both legislators have as an objective achieving the greatest possible level of comparability and a level playing field among the member states. i share the view that the calculation rules need to be both robust and practical. this is the only way to avoid the problems of the existing legislation, which offers no methodological clarity at all. of course, the best waste is no waste. so the priority that this house gives to waste prevention has my wholehearted support and i underscore the remarks just made by rapporteur bonafè. i have taken note of the suggestions for a waste reduction target and for new targets for reuse, food waste and marine litter. they deserve careful consideration. this means comprehensive impact assessment, sound data and agreed methodologies. we have learned our lessons from the current waste legislation, which does not offer methodological clarity at all. we need to avoid this in the future. the waste package is also about improving the means to achieve higher recycling rates on the ground, while promoting a broader circular economy transition. more use of economic instruments can provide the right incentives to move up the waste hierarchy. at european level, more efficient and transparent extended producer responsibility rules are key to encouraging better design and production techniques to enable more efficient recycling. in this context, parliament’s proposals to clarify and strengthen provisions resulting in better performance of waste management systems on the ground are most welcome. last but not least, i note the very wide range of initiatives that parliament would like to see in the waste area in the near future. we are looking forward to discussing these with you and the council, but let me say the following at this stage: i believe that we should set clear priorities in this work, examine where we have sufficiently developed methodologies available, and agree realistic deadlines. in order to ensure tangible results on the ground we need to focus our efforts. much has been achieved. i very clearly recall the antagonistic position that we – the commission and parliament – had at the beginning of this process of re-evaluating our waste proposals, and i am therefore very happy that we are in such a cooperative, forward—looking mood today. i will do everything in my power to make sure that we stay as close as possible to parliament’s position in this.
draftsman of the committee on industry, research and energy. mr president, our economy is facing a whole new set of challenges. how we respond to them will affect our long-term competitiveness, our quality of life and the quality of our environment. if we want to ensure that people can prosper in the future and create new and better-paying jobs, we're going to have to go through a whole series of changes, if not revolutions. the digital revolution, the technology revolution and transforming our energy to low carbon. we also need a radical change in the way we manage waste and in the way we manage and use materials and raw materials. a key part of this revolution will be to change the way we think about waste, which must become a resource. we need to create the best conditions for resource efficiency, for the development of the secondary raw materials market, for innovation in material handling and reuse. that is why we need a new legislative framework that is ambitious enough to spur much-needed change. that's why i support raising the targets as discussed in the committees. it's not just economic factors that we have to consider, it's food waste or the sea being clogged with garbage.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – mr president, i remember the submission of the proposal more than a year ago. i was one of the very few meps who was positive about the proposal, because it was inclusive, and we could already sense at that time that if we handled it well it could lead to a real transformation of our industry, creating a completely new sector. if we look at the proposals, and i am looking at them as the rapporteur on two of the proposals, in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), and in case one as a shadow, i must say that this is a good result. i also appreciated the interaction with the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), which has taken on board a number of the points made by the itre committee, including the annex on incentives, the one-stop shop, and the questions of illegal shipments etc. now is not the time to spell out all the positive provisions – it is the time to invite the house to fully support and back something that has enormous industrial, environmental and social implications. i think that we have got it right. let’s go for it.
mr president, allow me also to thank the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs who have done an incredible job on this package, and i think they have managed to produce a far more ambitious version of the package than the commission has proposed, which is certainly a positive and good basis for the following negotiations. i must say, i'm pleased with him. i feel that the objectives we have set ourselves are something extra that can bring a lot of positive things to the citizens. sub-targets for bio-waste and a progressive approach to microplastics are certainly in order, as are ecodesign and the use of waste as raw materials, which is the right way to ensure a true circular economy. i personally support the recycling and landfill targets, but i cannot support a total ban on the energy use of waste, because i don't think landfilling is better or more environmentally friendly than converting waste into energy where it makes sense. let me wish you, all the colleagues who have been involved, above all, that you maintain these ambitions and that you succeed in making them a reality in the trilogy.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, in application of rule 59, paragraph 3, of our rules of procedure i would like to request on behalf of the alde group to vote on the amendments before the vote on the provisional agreement. the plenary has never had the opportunity to take a position on this important text, as it was negotiated directly by the committee. therefore i ask all my colleagues to vote in favour of this request, which will simply allow all members to express their opinion.
mr president, i voted against the adoption of this directive because i fear uncertainty in its application and therefore the fundamental concern of the legal holders. first of all, i consider it a mistake that it was not possible to vote on the specific amendments which we had tabled and which were intended to correct the directive. i find it unacceptable to criminalize the possession of more than 20 or 10 rounds of ammunition. the european parliament, by its de facto vote, rejected our proposals en bloc and approved a compromise which i did not vote for, but which i must also acknowledge is a much better solution than the one originally proposed by the european commission. i think there's no reason for any hysteria, because the current gun owners will be able to keep their guns. what i'm worried about is the uncertainty of the application and the needless compromise of the original counter-terrorism proposal.
mr president, i voted against this arms directive because it is full of errors and is laughable not only to the experts but also to the general public. if we want to fight terrorism, we should fight terrorism, but we should not conflate the directive with the fight against terrorism, the directive which actually restricts the legal possession of weapons. i simply find the directive totally illogical and i think that when we look back at our decision today not to vote on the amendments, we will find it very, very wrong.
mr president, i voted against this proposal and i would like to say that although there have of course been some improvements to the commission's initially very disastrous proposal, i do not think that these improvements are sufficient to support the proposal. i therefore voted against this report because i wanted to condemn, first of all, the procedure followed in the plenary, whereby our amendments, which were tabled and applied in accordance with the procedural rules, were not actually put to the vote. i do not understand why my proposals were not put to the vote when i put them to the vote properly, and i am not a member of the committee responsible. i think that's what we should be talking about today. i would like to condemn in particular the way in which the report we are presenting affects the rightful owners of firearms. if these guys aren't committing any terrorist attacks, their impact on crime is very minimal, so i don't understand the dramatic implications for their legal standing. in my opinion, terrorism must be addressed first and foremost, and i think that was not the solution.
mr president, i supported the waste package, which aims to reduce emissions in the long term, increase waste management efficiency, emphasise producer responsibility, reduce red tape and create new jobs. of course, it is also necessary that these objectives take account of the real possibilities of each member state in order to be achievable at all. i therefore voted in favour of relaxing the mandatory recycling targets for packaging and municipal waste, which are even stricter in the proposed report than originally proposed by the commission. some municipalities are already having problems meeting the targets set. i therefore supported the amendments which seek to clarify certain problematic terms such as municipal waste. i think it is important that the proposed rules aiming at a more environmentally friendly impact take into account the options of the member states. although these proposals were not adopted, i voted in favour of the draft report.
mr president, i would like to say first of all that i believe in the principle of economy, that is to say that each of us should behave in our own life in such a way as to be economical with resources, with the countryside, and of course with what we produce, what we leave behind, that is to say, waste management. on the other hand, i am convinced that the reports approved do not correspond to what was proposed by the european commission, which has already set fairly ambitious objectives and has made these objectives subject to a certain examination, a certain type of study, which has been submitted. on the other hand, the envi committee has approved even stricter limits, which i do not know to what extent are even more ambitious, and in any event no assessment has been submitted that such limits are realistically tougher. and in that case, i think we should all apply the principle of some caution and blame the commission, which has perhaps made some sound arguments. it seems to me that we will have to deal with this issue because the states will be against it. and i believe that our goal is to protect a good environment, not just for political proclamations.
mr. chairman, i couldn't support this report even if i wanted to. the report was very well done and there were a number of points with which i completely agree. the fact that there are gaps between women's and men's wages, the fact that in many eu countries there are gaps between men's and women's pensions, is something that is absolutely crucial that we have to address. on the other hand, this report was full of such empty phrases and nonsense about subsidiarity. it's about the right to abortion, which just varies from state to state. i therefore could not support the report as a whole and would like to call on the european parliament to really stick to its powers and not to propose things that it can never change as the european parliament.
mr president, let me explain why i did not support the report on eu funding for gender equality. i naturally think it is important that the european parliament monitors the use of european funds, including those intended to promote equality between women and men. but it turns out that the means seem to be missing their purpose, because in the long run, they fail to promote the goal of equal pay as well as equal pensions, which are constantly very different, and women who spend their lives caring for children and families then have a poor pension. i think we should rather teach our society that investing in children is an investment for the good of society as a whole, and that time spent raising children should not be seen as a handicap that reduces income. the european parliament should rather focus on encouraging member states to value mothers and parents, to encourage member states to promote their parenting role and to reconcile the conditions for reconciling parental and professional life.
mr. chairman, today is the last time. i voted in favour of this proposal as it represents an important step towards greater protection of fundamental human rights in the use of big data. on the one hand, this data has huge potential for economic development and can be used in areas such as health, transport or crime prevention. at the same time, we must be aware that many of these are sensitive personal data. i mean, like, location information. therefore, a legal framework is needed in the future to effectively prevent the misuse of such data and to ensure transparent procedures for their analysis. it is also necessary to prevent the deliberate or unintentional distortion of the database. the results of data analysis can serve as a basis for policy decisions at all levels of public administration.
madam president, the european union is known as the largest donor for humanitarian and development aid and health care is certainly one of those programs. i am in favour of eu funding for medical aid against epidemics and, in particular, for medical care, which is often lacking in these african countries. i am against eu funding for abortion beyond life-saving procedures. if the eu is going to fund anything, it has to be health care that protects and saves lives, not destroys them. the eu should finance education, awareness-raising and basic health and preventive care. abortion, ladies, is not prevention. i don't agree with funding these programs.
madam president, 46 000 immigrants were fleeing to the us between october 2015 and july 2016, an increase on an annual basis and nearly double the two years before. nearly 900 arbitrarily detained people per month. yes, i am talking about cuba. cuba, which is not among the priorities that the council agreed on and not a priority that we have set up. the political groups went along with the council’s priorities. but the situation has not improved in cuba; on the contrary. you will remember that we awarded mr fariñas the sakharov prize. this person, last year, went on hunger strike with a number of activists. why? because the situation has massively deteriorated in the country concerned. there are people that are being detained – some are detained for days or longer, and there is no contact for families. this situation has not improved, and i think that we should be aware of it and next year, regardless of the fact that we are in contractual relations with cuba, put cuba again as one of the priorities, as a country which is enormously breaching human rights.
mr president, i am sorry that the commissioner has left, because he could have heard something positive about his agenda, and that is not so usual. why? because i believe that, in the past two years, we made really substantial progress in the area of better, efficient and fair tax collection – more progress than for many, many years. the union is always considered to be slow, inefficient and unable to find agreement and move forward, but this is not exactly the case. we can point to the adoption of the anti-tax-avoidance directive (atad) i and ii and the administrative cooperation directive (dac3 and dac4), and we have started to use state aid rules to enforce better and fairer tax collection. i hope that we will make similar progress quickly on the anti-money-laundering directive and, more importantly, the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb). obviously, there is reason to be at least a little proud, not just for doing something, because taking action is not always a good thing, but for doing right things in a basically reasonable way. however, there is no reason for complacency, and we must be aware that the fruit of our efforts will come later, because the macroeconomy is slow and we will not move forward unless countries implement the directives properly, tax authorities cooperate and work properly, and the commission plays its role decisively. as i said, there is no room for complacency and many things have to be done. i am dissatisfied with the situation of the code of conduct group. it has not exactly been the leading force in improving tax collection in the last decade and, in my opinion, it needs to regain people’s confidence. there is an agenda that it is definitely on the table of the code of conduct group, including dealing with patent boxes. i guess parliament will carefully follow the progress made, and i hope the results will be delivered soon.
mr president, i would like to join my colleagues in calling for greater transparency, greater legitimacy, in particular, for the code of conduct group, because it shows - i do not want to offend it unnecessarily - the whole face of the union's institutions. trust is very hard to build and very easy to lose. however, i would caution against using the current situation to call for a fair tax system, which i believe is an attempt to invade the defence of the member states, which i want to protect in full, because in my view we cannot legitimately construct a fair tax system at european level. something else is unfair tax competition, and that's where we have to be precise and targeted, but to design a fair tax system, i think, is a very dangerous endeavor.
mr president, commissioner, in the past years i have looked at the eu budget from the point of view of the libe committee and i have always been satisfied with the budget because the money for this area has increased significantly. it was the same last year. but today i see that this area is still underfunded and we are forced to seek every euro to strengthen this area. in my view, therefore, the further increase in the budget for security and the migration crisis should be the main priority of the 2018 budget as proposed today by the rapporteur. i would like, above all, for the new budget to be flexible enough to be able to obtain eu funding quickly and efficiently in times of crisis. however, this must go hand in hand with proper control of this funding and its effectiveness. we must therefore not only ensure a balance between flexibility and control, but also ensure that budgetary discipline is respected. the other aspect that i think is new and important to this proposal and to any other proposal is the flow of money from one area to another. the overflow from the area where the money resides to the area where it is absent. one example of all of this is european agriculture. billions of euros a year go into meaningless and poorly controlled projects. on the other hand, funding to address the migration crisis is still lacking. we don't have the funding to strengthen some of the needs in the area of humanitarian care and in the area of youth support. i would like to thank you, mr commissioner, for always being willing to discuss and listen to us, and i am confident that you will make the most of mr mureșan's prepared proposal for your next budget.
i would like to add my support to the objective set out by the rapporteur. i think it's important to actually encourage growth in the budget for next year. and here we should focus on the invasion of technology, which has been talked about a lot here. and i would like to point out one contradiction that actually illustrates the way the eu is approaching this, in a kind of internal conflict. we here in the audiovisual legislation set out obligations as to what should be the content of the broadcast, etc. however, we are not dealing with the fact that in other member states we cannot see the content of this broadcast because we are faced with internal obstacles, namely the settlement of those rights. so we should think about how to remove these obstacles. and the other aspect of security is quite clear. not just the internal aspects of internal security, but the external ones as well. russia is still the aggressor, i think it's a threat, and we should set our budget priority on that.
madam president, i confess that i was not aware of the scale of this humanitarian disaster, i only knew of its framework, but until i heard the commissioner's words, i really did not know the scale of it and it is a huge shock to me. i want to tell the commissioner that any step he takes to save even one life, such a step, of course, i think not only i, but all my colleagues will support. i'd like to hear the word that we're going to look into the cause of this disaster and also bring out the personal responsibility of the people specifically responsible. to let these people know that they are not hiding in any hole in the world, that they will not escape that responsibility, and that it will be carried out according to the rules of international criminal law. i think it is very important that this message should be heard today by the people of strasbourg.
mr president, three remarks: first of all, loudly and clearly, president tusk, i congratulate you on the reappointment, i need to underline that this was not a dictate of berlin, you had and have a strong majority support in centre and eastern europe among others. i think you are doing a very good job in mending the fences that we have in europe. secondly, on turkey: honestly i think the time has come to say we cannot pursue the negotiations – we should not be freezing them, we should stop the negotiations and come with a new partnership kind of agreement for turkey. it will not fly immediately, but i think we have no other option, and i say that as a person that in 2004 was one of the very few commissioners that supported opening the negotiations with turkey. thirdly, on the scenarios. i think that we should exclude immediately three: europe as it stands today; secondly, internal market that is disintegration; and thirdly, federation, because the time is not right. we have two scenarios, but we do not have to discuss them, we should put on the table the concrete political issues on which we are to have a coherent approach, and then we will see what will fly with eventually a complete unity with multi-speed.
mr president, allow me to begin by congratulating donald tusk on his election. it's certainly an acknowledgement of his work at the head of the council, but it's also a signal. a strong signal at this time that we need to make clear that the member states can agree, have agreed to re-elect him and i believe they can also agree to accept the declaration that the president has just presented to the council. these are four objectives which i think meet the expectations of eu citizens well. i appreciate that this declaration is designed to bring together member states and also to bring together citizens. the goal is a safe and secure europe, a prosperous europe, a social europe and a europe strong in the world. these goals are general, but they are essential to preserving the heritage that we have received here. the 60 years of peace in europe, which prime minister gentiloni has mentioned, are a great legacy and a great commitment. and i thank you for your cooperation.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, we all have a common goal: to break the link between mining and armed conflicts. this legislation provides an ambitious framework in this regard, but it is also proportionate as it is targeted to the key actors. alone, it cannot solve the causes of those conflicts, but it will help to fight against exploitation of minerals for the financing of armed groups. it will also increase international companies’ awareness of human rights issues in relation to their activities. this legislation is an important step forward in the field of corporate social responsibility. it will increase traceability on the supply chain. in addition, the text ensures that the system is workable for european companies; guidelines will be drafted to help companies identify where conflicts or high-risk areas are and explain how the situation on the ground is evolving. in addition, assistance is foreseen for smes. finally, importers of very small volumes, such as small jewellers, will be exempted.
madam chair, human rights abuses are common in the mining industry, which can include child labor, sexual violence, enforced disappearances, forced displacement and the destruction of ritually and culturally significant sites. consumers' purchases of certain minerals and metals originating in conflict-affected and high-risk areas are thus indirectly linked to conflicts that have serious impacts on human rights, and in particular on the rights of women and children. armed groups often use gang rape as a deliberate strategy to intimidate and control local populations in order to protect their interests. this is a truly inhumane practice that must be stopped, and i am very pleased that the eu is taking action on this matter. but companies that trade in these materials must also recognize and act on their responsibility for the state of our world. and i firmly believe that, given that it's only four minerals, we're going to continue this effort because, as the speakers said, there's a lot of things that are killing innocent people.
madam president, i have the honour of speaking here as the president of one of those european political parties, the alliance of european conservatives and reformists (acre), which is the youngest, yet fastest growing, party. it is a serious party and a real party with the third largest group in the european parliament. i am proud to say that, since our foundation in 2009, we have always been very cautious and careful in spending public money according to parliament’s rules. every year we have been audited without a single objection. every year our books have been closed and approved by all relevant authorities: the external auditor, dg finance and parliament’s bureau as well. we did not sign the letter of the three parties concerned, but we have absolutely no problem with all the provisions proposed. i will maybe just make one final remark. we are a pro-european party but an anti—federalist party. for instance, we do not agree with what mr verhofstadt thinks about the european union and we do not agree with what the cdu-csu from germany says about the future of the european union, but i firmly believe that different opinions on the course of the future of the eu will not be misinterpreted and misused in a political fight. please consider this seriously.
mr president, the security risks to the european union have changed over the last ten years. if we're going to confront them, we need to define them. the report therefore calls on the council and the high representative to prepare an eu white paper on security and defence, which will include a definition of threats. i would like to draw attention to a present danger that should be described in the white paper. it is a danger that directly undermines the concept of future cooperation between the eu and nato. this danger is called the revival of european communism. it is no secret that czech communists, for example, including our colleagues in the european parliament, are already openly calling for the czech republic to withdraw from nato. if they get back to power, and this is real, because the communists are the third strongest party in the czech republic, they will achieve their goal of breaking nato from within. do not underestimate the power of communism, mrs. mogherini.
author. – madam president, one has to have a very strong stomach to interrupt a debate on the tragic situation in zimbabwe with an administrative it issue. this is, and is not, a motion about the case of pastor evan mawarire. why is it about him? because it is a tragic case. why is it not just about him? because this is yet another case out of hundreds of thousands in a country which should be flourishing, but which is sinking and sinking. we will surely have more debates about more motions for resolutions on zimbabwe, on concrete cases, but what we really need is a serious debate. we need to implement the policy tools that we have at our disposal, limited as they are, vis—à—vis zimbabwe and other african countries. otherwise, we will have an inflation in the number of resolutions with no change. what we really need is a change for the better and an improvement. this is something that the eu has to do. if it is not capable of doing it, that it is a very negative sign.
for the group gue/ngl. - madam president, almost 10 000 people were killed, more than 22 000 were wounded and a huge number of people fled, 2.3 million of them to russia. this is the balance of the armed conflict in ukraine so far. and not see the end yet. of course, it is right to show concern for the individual fates of people who have become political prisoners. i, too, fully support that we fully criticize the imprisonment of political views or actions that do not violate democratic laws. but in the interest of the fate of individuals, we must not forget the suffering of millions. their pain may be anonymous, it may not be attributed to media-friendly stories, but it is substantial. why, for example, do we not insist on an investigation into the burning of innocents in odessa? such a course seems to me to be reprehensibly dangerous and cowardly. our job is to help find a way to end the war in ukraine, not to add fuel to the fire by taking sides in the suffering.
the question posed by the blue card. if everyone thought like you and acted according to what you say, i, as a citizen of the czech republic, could never be here, because the czechoslovak socialist republic would still exist and the warsaw pact would still exist. i want to ask you, do you recognize the right of citizens to take to the streets and demonstrate for their free rights?
mr. chairman, it's outdated to stuff people into cattle cars and deport them. these methods were used by joseph stalin when he deported chechens, ingush, crimean tatars. today, the world uses methods far more subtle than the forced displacement of entire peoples. there's no need to move a nation, just create a sophisticated atmosphere of fear and people move themselves. this is the method used against the crimean tatars by today's russia, which has illegally occupied the crimean peninsula for the third year. a very effective means is kidnapping, murder, abuse of anti-terrorist laws, abuse of psychiatric hospitals, kicking the doors of hard-working crimean tatar families in the morning. it is our duty to stand by the sorely tried crimean tatar nation. the ukrainian citizens illegally detained in russia and in the occupied territories must be released as soon as possible and unconditionally.
mr president, i would like to thank first of all the authors of this resolution, which speaks with a clear voice and in clear words, what the situation is in crimea and what our response is. the european parliament supports the unity and territorial integrity of ukraine. within internationally recognised borders, condemns the illegal annexation of crimea by russia and supports effective sanctions. we condemn the persecution and harassment of opponents and the persecution of crimean tatars. we demand their release. the crimean tatars who are persecuted are ordinary people, artists, teachers, small businessmen, and many of them have been sentenced to serve time and sent to prison camps. what i think is a very important signal is that this is a common position of five political factions across countries, across political factions except the extremists. it's a clear signal to russia and also a clear support for ukraine.
author. – mr president, it is very disappointing to stand here discussing the human rights situation in the philippines again so soon. just six months ago, we passed a resolution to express our serious concern at the violent crackdown by president duterte on the users and sellers of narcotics. today, this policy continues to claim the lives of thousands through extrajudicial killings, with more than 60% of deaths carried out by unknown assassins and under complete impunity. senator leila de lima has been a strong voice, raising legitimate concerns over the legality, humanity and actual effectiveness of such a brutal policy. de lima is now being punished for simply condemning duterte’s war on drugs and attempting to legally investigate killings, in accordance with the rule of law. freedom of speech and political opposition are critical to the functioning of any democracy. the government must therefore drop its charges against leila de lima and guarantee her protection from any further harassment. moreover, i call on the government of the philippines to put an immediate end to the wave of extrajudicial executions taking place, and to condemn and investigate the actions of vigilante groups carrying out these killings. the illegal drug trade in the philippines is a serious problem that needs to be addressed, but encouraging and condoning murder is not a solution. no matter how serious an issue may be, no government can permit violations of human rights and the rule of law to achieve an outcome. while condemning these actions, the eu should also seek to assist the government to uphold its human rights obligations.
the author. mr. chairman, the case of opposition senator leila de lima is an alarming example of the suppression of the rights of the citizens of the philippines. according to the european people's party, it is completely unacceptable that a human rights activist who has been highlighting the negative consequences of president duterte's anti-drug campaign should be arrested for drug trafficking herself. i find that absolutely unacceptable. this arrest was made on fabricated charges and reflects the deteriorating political and social situation in the philippines. moreover, the right to life is increasingly under threat due to a recently passed law that allows the death penalty for serious drug-related crimes. the european union must intervene and strongly appeal to the philippine authorities to release ms de lima and to stop falsely accusing citizens who legitimately criticize the practices of the local government.
in writing. in the context of the debate on human rights violations in the world, which is on the agenda of every plenary session, we have today dealt with the philippines, specifically the case of senator leila m. de lima of the opposition liberal party. she's charged with a felony involving drugs. according to various ngos, including amnesty international, there are serious concerns that the case is completely fabricated, that evidence has been falsified only to gradually eliminate opposition to the government. the resolution calls for the security of the senator in custody, her immediate release and a fair investigation of the entire case.
mr president, i supported this report because i am in favour of the creation of a defence union in general and i must admit that i am not opposed to a substantial strengthening of this particular budget chapter for that reason. i think the union should focus on defence policy, on security policy, because that is exactly what citizens expect from the union, to ensure their elementary security. and in my opinion, it's not about diluting cooperation with nato. i am convinced that the challenges facing europe, whether it is the hybrid war being waged by russia or the mass movement of people, are precisely the challenges that are called for in order to create a truly strong and dominant defence and security policy for the union. it is essential that the union should ensure the coordination of those policies with regard to the member states.
mr president, the initiative of the european solidarity corps raises many questions, as we are hearing now. although we all agree that the idea of the corps is good, many misunderstandings could have been avoided if the commission had consulted on its intention in time with youth volunteer organisations. i hope that in the preparation of the legislative decision the commission is directly cooperating with the youth organisations. our committees rightly ask how the corps will be organised and financed. we fundamentally disagree with the notion that the european solidarity corps could swallow other european programmes, for example the european voluntary service, which has more than 20 years of successful existence. the commission’s communication is very unclear on this matter. to make the project acceptable for us, it needs fresh money from the budget. it is also not clear how the occupational strand would work: what are the financial links between the ecs and the youth guarantee, and will the provided job for young people be a truly rewarding experience? my last question is about whether the commission has already prepared concrete activities for the more than 25 000 young people who have already signed up to the corps, in order to prevent their frustration if the corps does not fulfil their expectations.
madam president, it has been almost a year and a half since i asked the european institutions what they were going to do with the information from the british newspaper the guardian. he wrote that in britain he was being held against his will and often forced to work illegally on 3,000 vietnamese children. yes, in the uk. i wanted to know what the british government's response was and what the european institutions were planning to do to resolve the situation as quickly as possible and to prevent it from happening again. in response, i received a list of international agreements that prohibit forced labor and human trafficking, especially of children. so does that mean that if we sign an international agreement on a problem, the problem immediately disappears? i must admit, the degree of cynicism contained in the answer to that question took my breath away. the signing of the agreement is one thing, but the fact is that we are witnessing human trafficking in the 21st century and we must ensure that it does not happen again, including in the european union, which should be the example and should be the one to prevent it, always and everywhere.
the rapporteur. madam president, in the debates i am often asked why i am particularly interested in the topic of palm oil. why don't i just go with soy, avocado, or other vegetable oils. i believe this is a legitimate question, and i want to answer it for you. the topic of palm oil came to me sometime in late 2015, when i first learned about the fires in indonesia. i have to admit, i was completely blown away. the rainforests were on fire, and with them all the living things in them. the ecological damage was staggering, but no one seemed to know about it. it's like we're all looking the other way and letting the rainforest burn. no one reported it, few people talked about it, and no one seemed to be dealing with it. so i started to do research, and i had no idea that i was opening up pandora's box. the fires were linked to many of the problems that are associated with palm oil production in general - corruption, blindness, child labor, environmental devastation, human rights violations and indigenous rights violations, the activities of multinational corporations, post-colonial development and migration, and i could go on. this innocent-looking ingredient, often added to candy, cosmetics, baby food, potatoes, and other food and drug products, is aware that rainforest in indonesia has burned some five thousand miles [8,000 km] over more than two million acres [2,000,000 ha]. this fire has released more co2 into the atmosphere in three weeks than germany can handle in a year. orangutans, gibbons, sumatran elephants, and tigers, along with thousands and perhaps millions of other species, have lost their last remaining natural habitats and are threatened with extinction. sixty-nine million people in indonesia and borneo breathed polluted air, and thousands paid for these fires with their lives. the reason was to create palm plantations at the expense of the rainforest. the downsides of producing palm oil are clear, but the low price is able to overcome all. so we're seeing another race to the bottom, where we're driven by short-term economic benefits over long-term interests in the sustainability of our life on earth. as i've indicated, the problem is not just that we're putting harmful substances into our atmosphere, which of course is contributing to global warming, but that we're doing so in particular in the rainforests, which we rightly call the lungs of the planet. i believe that the european union, as a strong supporter of the paris agreement and the un sustainable development goals, must act on this issue. i'm very glad that i found some important allies in the shadow intelligence community, and let me thank them very much. and not just to them, but to all of their coworkers. they took the subject seriously, and they were a great support and a great help. we may have taken different roads at times, but the direction remained the same. for european consumers, but also for citizens of palm oil producing countries, we wanted to prevent deforestation associated with palm oil production. ensure that palm oil imported into the european union is grown and processed in sustainable ways. push for the most ambitious certification schemes. to fight human rights abuses on the plantations and the trampling on the human rights of indigenous communities. to also comment on the illogic of having palm oil in first-generation biofuels, which causes fires and floods our atmosphere with significant amounts of co2. ladies and gentlemen, i look forward to a constructive debate on my report and on this issue. palm oil is certainly not the greatest evil we have under the sun. but the way we grow and process it today is a risk to our planet, and that's why i think we need to do more than just talk about it.
for the alde group. madam president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs konecny, for her work on this report. the destruction of rainforests for palm oil is one of the greatest environmental problems on the planet today. of particular concern is the speed and rate of rain forest destruction. the forests that act as the lungs of our planet. we are endangering our future generations, the future of the people who live in the mining areas, we are endangering many of the most precious species. i am therefore very pleased that the european parliament has also taken a clear position on this matter, that it is aware of the urgency of the problem and the need to address it. even the unprecedented consensus across political factions is evidence that there is a will and a drive to address the problem. i welcome the fact that the negotiations have resulted in a material containing a number of concrete steps. whether it is the introduction of minimum standards for palm oil imported into the european union, the proof of origin, or greater transparency of information for us consumers. the european union is the third largest consumer of palm oil in the world. as in so many other areas, we should act responsibly here, setting standards that can inspire the rest of the world.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate and thank my colleague, ms kateřina konečná, for having succeeded in putting this subject on the agenda of the european parliament's plenary session. europeans are concerned about whether and how their consumer preferences are contributing to the destruction of the environment, biodiversity and local communities, in this case the rainforest ecosystem and agriculture and local communities in southwest asia. the european parliament is now finally making its position clear. i hope that the european commission and the member states will now do everything possible to ensure that from 2020 only sustainable palm oil is used in the european union, and that it is certified in a uniform way. in the compromise text, parliament also calls for the phasing out of palm oil and other vegetable oils as preferred biofuel ingredients from 2020. in that respect, i would welcome a tougher outcome, but this is a start, and i'm happy for him.
madam president, i also want to thank my colleague, catherine lopes, for the report she has managed to present in cooperation with other members. it is, in fact, the european parliament's contribution to environmental protection. it is also our responsibility, as the european union is the second largest importer of palm oil. we have a chance to change the behavior of oil producers and make this situation better. the creation of a single binding certificate that would give consumers clear information on the origin of palm oil would be a concrete contribution, and i expect the european commission to act on this. of course, it would also help to have a more transparent land registry in the producer countries, but here it is in the hands of the producer countries, like indonesia or malaysia. the european union should take the initiative in this matter in international negotiations. i'm just worried that the pace of these steps will be faster than the irreversible destruction of natural resources.
the newswoman. ladies and gentlemen, let me thank you very much for the debate that took place here, and i have faith in the vote tomorrow and in the fact that perhaps even now, although it should not be said in advance, i can say that we have done a huge amount of work. i just want to say that the palm oil issue is definitely on the agenda, and that's why the report went from three pages to 20 pages, and it's not just about deforestation, it's about child trafficking, it's about human labor, it's about social aspects, it's about biodiversity, it's about a whole bunch of other things. and as one of my colleagues here said, we may not only be putting out a fire in indonesia right now, but we're putting out a fire that we've been neglecting for a long time, precisely by allowing palm oil production to grow and our consumption to grow in an incredible way. i just want to say that i am very pleased that we here in the european parliament have managed to have a complex debate. a debate that may not have been as heated and emotional as some had initially imagined, but which was factual, apolitical, balanced, and i firmly believe that you will find everything about palm oil in this report. after all, it's not just the ngos that have acknowledged this, and i thank them very much for their support, but also the industry that we've been openly communicating with about these things, and everyone who's been interested in this issue, except for some lobbying organizations in some countries that didn't even contact us, but are now communicating in various ways through twitter and facebook and emailing you about how bad things are. i guarantee you, if they wanted to meet, they had the chance and they never did. the commission has a number of recommendations, for which i thank you. thank you for the study we've been waiting for, and according to my original information, it should have been done by february. but it cannot be about studies, recommendations, conferences, commissioner, please, this must be about concrete things and concrete actions, not just of the european commission, but of all of us. we're hoping that in this report, we're showing you the way. i'm grateful that we may go our separate ways to achieve this common goal, but we will reach this common goal and we will reach it on time. it will be the most important thing we can do for the future of our planet and our children.
in writing. according to commissioner for health vytenis andriukaitis, speaking in the plenary debate on 3 april 2017, the eu has the highest food safety standards in the world. nevertheless, unfair trading practices have allowed meat to enter the european market, putting consumers at risk. while i welcome the strengthening of controls on meat imported from brazil, there is a need for guarantees that such a thing will not happen again, no matter what country it is. it is important to note that the investigation by the brazilian authorities lasted two years and during this time the commission did not send out a single signal that something was wrong. it is necessary to strengthen controls on meat imports from third countries in general. brazil is the world's largest exporter of beef and poultrymeat, exporting 400 000 tonnes of meat to the eu every year. european consumers and producers expect all meat imports to meet the demanding european standards and norms. i support the initiative of mrs smolková, who is calling for an appropriate response from the european commission, and i therefore support the initiatives of my own member state, the czech republic, which is calling for a ban on meat imports from brazil following the scandal. i also welcome the rapid reaction of the state veterinary administration, which analysed the presence of pathogenic microorganisms, inhibitors (antibiotics) and water-retaining substances in the meat on the basis of laboratory samples and found serious errors.
madam president, i myself come from a rural region and i know that life in the countryside is indeed more complicated. there are fewer job opportunities, especially for highly skilled professions, and less access to services, commerce, schools and healthcare. this is what happens to women who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being i know many small communities that are able to support these services, to create a better environment, with the support of european union funds or government programs. i think this is a good example of how we can address the betterment of women. i find the particular view of women on this issue rather artificial, but i respect it. rural development is important for society as a whole, for food security, for the maintenance and creation of the landscape, it is important for the maintenance of our traditions and cultural roots. i would like to thank mrs petir for her support for rural development, for fighting for it and for being sensitive to the needs of women.
madam president, i would like to draw attention to the case of two young czech citizens who were arrested in turkey in november 2016. miroslav farkas and markéta všelichová visited the rojava region of syria, where they helped to manage the humanitarian crisis in the predominantly kurdish area and helped to build a hospital. the activity also brought together members of the ipg, a group recognised in many european countries as part of the coalition fighting the so-called islamic state. both young men are currently in turkish custody awaiting trial. the reason for this is their contacts with the ipg, which is considered a terrorist organisation in turkey. i never stopped believing in due process. i know their parents, i know their story, and i'm convinced they're innocent. my colleagues and i are working to secure their release. we have written to the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy, mogherini, asking her to support their release. markéta and mirek wanted to help in good faith, and now they face unjust consequences. yet we believe there will be a fair trial that will set them free.
madam president, france is about to take another outrageous step to disrupt the internal market of the european union. the french regions are quietly introducing the so-called molière clause, which requires firms applying for public contracts in the construction sector to ensure that all workers speak french. it is quite clear that this measure is designed to discriminate against foreigners once again and to make it more difficult for them to enter the french labour market. this condition is in complete contradiction with european legislation, as the commission itself has already confirmed. the main reason for introducing this measure is to increase safety at construction sites. the real reason, in my opinion, is just another attempt to protect the french market. or is france trying to tell us that the construction in other member states is different from that in france? the principle of free movement of persons and services requires that the requirement of knowledge of the language of the state concerned be satisfied only in respect of occupations in which this is necessary for reasons of communication. at present, the introduction of various discriminatory and protectionist measures has literally torn the sack. similar measures can only trigger further countermeasures by the remaining member states. is that really the way we want to go?
mr president, commissioner, it has been over a year and a half since we learned that volkswagen used equipment to circumvent emissions testing. the result has been a justifiably angry reaction from consumers. europe cannot afford another dieselgate. this continent is one of the global leaders in the automotive industry. but if we cannot guarantee that european cars are reliable, safe, environmentally friendly and technologically advanced, we could easily lose our position on the world stage. until today, however, we have been primarily responsible to our consumers. how could something like this happen? and what are we going to do to make them trust their cars again? i hope that the report adopted by the commission will provide those answers. it also clearly says that the blame lies with more than one party. not only did the company deliberately mislead the public, but the controls that were supposed to prevent such actions failed completely. so i believe that by voting here today we are closing a chapter in a story that should remain a memento and a great lesson for us in the future.
mr. chairman, we've been dealing with the dieselgate scandal for over a year. we know that the commission and the member states have failed not only to implement the various european directives but also to monitor them. but also that the car companies have taken advantage of the vaguely worded european legislation and thereby deceived european consumers. unfortunately, we also know that while american customers receive financial compensation, european customers have to settle for an apology. i understand that it's easier for volkswagen to reset cars in europe, but does that change the fact that consumers who bought a car with certain parameters in good faith were deceived? is this not an act that deserves punishment or compensation? but european carmakers refuse to pay european consumers what they are morally entitled to. i think it's absurd that we should allow europeans to be treated like this. they are not second-class customers and deserve equal treatment. it is too much to blame everything on one issue of inadequate legislation, although i personally understand the outrage of european consumers who feel that they have been let down by the law once again.
mr president, we have put together a very good report, which is probably the most complex description of the so—called dieselgate, and will allow the citizens of europe and others to learn about this unfortunate story. what can they learn from the report? first of all, it is clear that we have made no mistakes in setting limits for cars. we have collected enough clear evidence that there is – and was – technology available that could make car engines compliant with the regulation, regardless of the petrol or diesel technology used. that technology is – and was – available at reasonable cost. secondly, we learned that some manufacturers decided to save money and produce cars that could seriously harm the health of our citizens. that is what we know for certain. but there was also some reaction, which was late but quite clear. we have put together a new laboratory test. more importantly, we have introduced the real driving testing that is a key fundamental of a new and better system, and we will also be discussing and voting on the type-approval system. i therefore believe that we will end up with a much better system which will make it more difficult and more costly for people to cheat. but, at the same time, there is still some disappointing information. first of all, the reaction of both national governments and the commission on dieselgate is not sufficient and not clear enough. here i do not mean compensation for car owners. it is not mainly car owners who are affected by the scandal, but the people living in cities, walking on the pavements and waiting at crossroads who have to breathe the air that has been polluted by non-compliant cars. this is quite disappointing and, as a consequence, i would propose to put together a fund that will ensure that we will fight for programmes in air quality and achieve an improvement. secondly it is quite important that cars that still emitting more than ten times the limits in real driving are still on sale and causing air quality to be worse. it will take time before we improve the air quality that that was devastated by non—compliant cars, but i call on the commission and governments to act much more quickly to improve the confidence of our citizens in their actions.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and my shadow rapporteurs for the work done. i think that the outcome is well balanced. it provides the eu with more efficient and stronger mechanisms for type approval of cars before they enter european markets and for their actual monitoring when they are already present on the market. over a year ago, when this house discussed the car emissions inquiry committee, our group called for an eu-level surveillance system which would contribute to better enforcement of eu legislation. today that proposal is here and it means that we will not continue business as usual. not only has it restated the obligations for member states to actively engage in market surveillance, but it also provides the commission with a new set of competences to act on its own behalf or as a safeguard when the member states fail to do so. this is a major contribution to the legislation, which aims to restore consumers’ trust in our control mechanisms and in the european car industry. it is in the interest of us all to provide europeans with the right to reliable and transparent information about their vehicles. some of our colleagues have been talking about the need to establish an eu market surveillance agency, which would take over all the tasks in this field. our group does not believe this to be a good idea. the agency definitely does not meet the need to respond quickly to scandal. it would only create a supplementary layer of administration at high cost with little added value. and finally, there is no competence that an agency could have which could not be given to the commission directly. our group believes that the commission is the right institution to assume oversight powers at eu level and that the new system introduced in this report should prevent member states from interfering with those new powers. so i hope that we can adopt this report today in plenary.
mr president, it is clear that the rules for the approval of motor vehicles need to be modernised. we need to strengthen market surveillance, more thorough checks on vehicles in circulation and so on. but as always, the question is how to do it. i find some of the new control mechanisms and responsibilities problematic. i would also personally trust the national authorities more and not give so much room to the commission. yes, i would have preferred a different solution in certain provisions, but i understand that this is a compromise and a solid basis for negotiating with the council on a very complex matter. in other words, the rapporteur, my colleague daniel dalton, has done a very good job and deserves credit for it. i hope that the pan-european supervisory agency will not be added to the report at the last minute, as we had a very long discussion on this in the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. we simply cannot solve every problem by creating a new european supervisory authority. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. thank you for asking, i belong to a group that makes a very clear distinction between what should and what would be sensible to do at european level and what should remain at national level. in this case, i think the same rules that will apply to individual national inspectors are sufficient, it is more cost-effective than having one big agency across europe. i think it's just going to cause more trouble.
madam president, i personally supported this report, even though i have a big problem with subsidiarity. i personally think that this report does not belong in the european parliament's plenary, but in a way we can also say that it can help to open up the question in many member states. i myself come from a small village and i know what the role of women is and how difficult the life of a woman in a village can be. that's why i have a huge respect for women who stay in rural environments. a lot of urban people think, and here, i think, it's been said a little bit, that people in the countryside are stupid, and then they're surprised by how people in the countryside vote. because the people in the village may not have as much education and experience, but they have heart, and i think that's something that is often forgotten in the european parliament.
mr president, i came here to listen to a debate about greece and not about scotland and brexit. i was looking forward to hearing the opinion of the head of the eurogroup, and it is a little unfortunate that he is not here. still, there is a very interesting debate that is raising some concerns. when i look at the data, i can see the enormous effort made by the greek government and the high cost paid by the greek people to stabilise the fiscal situation. this has been reached. unfortunately, data on economic growth are much gloomier. after some very bad times we saw some signs of recovery that have now been replaced by much weaker data. this is really the key concern. first of all, in this situation the greek government should not give up on fiscal improvement and the vast effort and money it has taken to maintain the fiscal situation. it would be good if the government could explain to people that this is unfortunately the cost of the bad governance of greece before the crisis. at the same time we should better understand what is going on in greece and, as partners, work out the measures that will get greece back on its feet. i am not talking about revisiting the agreements or resetting the targets, because i do not believe that the country can get out of trouble through fiscal expansion, but find a good combination of reforms and involvement of eu policy like the cohesion funds or efse to help greece to recover. i guess it is feasible. we are still missing one component, and this is trust. unfortunately the debate is supporting that.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, we have been negotiating these two regulations for over four and a half years. a huge amount of work has been done, and these are the largest legislative documents ever to be debated on this soil. a huge thank you goes to both reporters and everyone who contributed to them. i must say that i do not agree at all that we should reject these two documents, as our colleagues from the other group think, or that we should not deal with them any further. we've worked on them, the documents are good, although i don't necessarily agree with everything. it is very important that we finally, finally put them into effect and finally make them available to the european citizens, because we made them for them. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the actual costs of the measures. so it's ten years from the start of the negotiations to the time when the european citizen can feel it on his or her own body. i would like to ask the commissioner, i am concerned about some of the analyses by the member states which clearly show that neither the commission nor the competent supervisory authorities are equipped to date to implement these documents in a timely manner. please, if we've worked on them for so long and so well, we have to start implementing them. it is our responsibility to implement them and make them available to the member states and the citizens of the european union.
mr president, i consider the protection of the external borders to be of the utmost importance. this is a fundamental tool in the fight against illegal economic migration. we have not and will not have an effective pan-european institution here, nor a european external action service, nor a european border guard. we will have to get used to the fact that the main burden of protecting the borders against illegal economic migration will be on the national services of each member state, that the border countries of the european union have a greater responsibility and the rest of us have a greater responsibility to help them financially, organizationally, logistically. i would very much like the commission to come up with the idea that in the new multiannual financial framework after 2020 we will allocate far more resources to the protection of the external borders, that this money will go to greece, to italy, to spain, that we will contribute to them in this way instead of inventing new institutions, that we will therefore support those institutions that are already functioning, that is to say their national border services. i would consider that an effective and sensible approach.
mr president, citizens are asking us what the european union has done to address the migration crisis. we have the answer in this report. here is a balance sheet of what has been done, but also what will be done, with clear objectives: to protect lives, to ensure the protection of those who need it, to protect the external borders of the european union effectively and to stop trafficking in human beings. the european parliament proposes to tackle the root causes of migration, i.e. to promote stability and the economy in the countries of origin. it's not just words. the european union has already spent €17 billion over the past period to address the migration crisis, including mobilising human capacity and legislation. i would like to conclude by asking the commissioner, who mentioned the aid to libya to protect its southern borders, what specific means the european union is using to provide this aid.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, money market funds have been at the core of international work on shadow banking due to their vulnerability to investor runs on redemptions and the interconnectedness to their issuers and sponsor banks. so your vote tomorrow will be an important in finalising one of the last dossiers relating to the post-crisis reform agenda. it is an important achievement that took more than three years of very difficult and contentious negotiations. i would therefore like to thank the european parliament, the committee on economic and monetary affairs and in particular rapporteur neena gill on their ongoing commitment to achieving these results. in our view the compromise reached on most of the contentious issues is well balanced. i am talking about the removal of the sunset clause on low volatility net asset value (lvnav) mmfs, the inclusion of the public debt in the liquidity buckets, and the non-automaticity of the review of the feasibility of the eu debt quota for public debt constant net asset value (cnav) mmfs which will be taking place in five years. we think that the proposed framework strikes an appropriate balance between addressing the vulnerabilities of money market funds while maintaining them as a viable product. money market funds can therefore continue to play their important role of on the one hand providing short-term funding to companies, in particular smes, and on the other hand diversifying portfolios for investors. we also welcome the co-legislators’ decision to further strengthen the commission’s proposal by banning sponsor support entirely, therefore further reducing the contagion risk between money market funds and the banking sector. on balance the regulation offers a viable, robust and safe framework for both investors and asset managers that would improve the resilience of our economy.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the money market fund sector is split roughly evenly into constant net asset value and variable net asset value funds. therefore it is crucial that our framework takes account of the specificities of each type of fund, allowing each fund to continue to function and to finance the real economy, while addressing the objective of the regulation, namely to ensure money market funds are robust and secure in the case of systemic financial events. the text we will vote on tomorrow strikes the right balance in this respect. we will ensure that cnav funds in particular are more closely linked to the variations in market value of their assets, through conversion into low volatility nav funds. this will increase investor protection and reduce the risk of a systemic impact in the event of another crisis. at the same time lvnavs will maintain those characteristics which make the currency most attractive to certain types of investors, such as same-day settlement and simplicity of tax treatment. there are many further measure us in the text which will help ensure that money market funds continue to serve their purpose in markets while being subject to a strong regulatory regime. these negotiations were not easy, yet we should be proud that the final outcome is based on an innovative approach taken here in the parliament in order to break the deadlock between the groups in the parliament and also between member states in the council. thanks to the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs and all involved.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for this debate. i think this debate showed very clearly that the negotiations were very complicated and what we have reached is a compromise decision. indeed it took a long time, it probably does not keep all sides entirely happy, but it still allows us to move forward. once again, i would like to thank the rapporteur, neena gill, the committee on economic and monetary affairs, and all the colleagues who have been working on this dossier for their efforts and constructive approach during the trilogue negotiations.
rapporteur. – mr president, vice-president, colleagues, one and a half years after the commission published its capital markets union action plan, we now have a concrete example of how we will build it. the commission’s proposal aimed to modernise the prospectus directive by making it less costly for businesses to raise funds publicly, review regulatory barriers to small firms listing on equity and debt markets, and support the listing activities of small firms. in the european parliament, we took these objectives seriously and came forward with a number of innovations to make the prospectus regulation more fitting to the current environment. these included increasing the thresholds under which issuers would benefit from exemptions from the regulations, as well as the concept of an eu growth prospectus, a lighter regime which will help facilitate cross-border issuances for smaller companies. during the trilogue negotiations under the slovak presidency, we were able to fine-tune our positions and come to an agreement on a text which, i believe, will be of benefit to all issuers who want to raise funding on the markets. in particular, we increase to eur 1 million the amount under which issuers would be exempted from the requirements of the regulation. this will benefit growth funding ventures in europe, in particular helping them to raise capital without red tape standing in their way. we agreed on the eu growth prospectus, a bold new concept which will reduce costs for smes wishing to raise funds on a cross-border basis. the eu growth prospectus will facilitate access to capital for small issuers and encourage them to seek funding from capital markets, rather than a continued over-reliance on bank funding. we supported a shorter prospectus and summary. under the new regime, we will reduce costs for issuers and increase readability and relevance of information for investors, leading to increased investor protection. we made it simple for companies to carry out secondary issuances with a streamlined procedure. we minimise national exemptions and discretion, which will increase harmonisation and competition within the internal market. in my view, this is what capital market union should be about. we need to have harmonised measures across the eu, reduce red tape for companies, ensure investor protection, and, most of all, stimulate the growth of capital markets in europe. unlocking finances for smes and making it easier for them to access capital markets will benefit the european economy as a whole and help it to grow, which is something we desperately need in these uncertain times across the globe. may i conclude by thanking the shadow rapporteurs, the commission and the slovak presidency for their hard work and dedication to completing an ambitious reform of the prospectus regime.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to thank the european parliament, in particular the rapporteur mr ježek, his predecessor, philippe de backer and other colleagues who have been working on this, for the smooth conduct of the trilogues and the excellent results achieved in those negotiations. we are now looking forward to working with esma on prospectus schedules that will put the meat on the bones of our prospectus reform. we will work with the utmost urgency towards a new set of implementing schedules so that our rule book can be fully applied as of may 2019. to come specifically to a question raised by mr marias, central banks and similar institutions are always exempt in these kinds of cases.
rapporteur. – mr president, i was not told that building the capital markets union would be a night job. therefore i will be very brief. i am delighted that this first element of the capital markets union garnered such broad support. i see it as a common achievement. i am glad, not only from the point of view of substance, but also because nowadays, when times are difficult, some may wobble. i think that this example clearly shows that the groups in the european parliament and the eu institutions are able to work together very well and deliver.
madam president, i believe in the europe of today. i believe in our european project, a project that is based on the belief that together we are stronger and we do things better. that is why it makes me sad if you, mr farage and your friends, are likening this project to a prison. let me remind you that 48% of the voters in the referendum did not share this this view and many millions did not actually participate. i also heard mr fox – if i am not mistaken – saying that he is calling for a close and deep partnership and for invisible borders. if this is what you are calling for, then welcome back into europe. welcome back into the european union because this is what we are aiming for. instead of that, you are, in practice, calling for the negotiation of a similar agreement to the ones we have with the us, korea or canada. if this is so, please do not be surprised that in this negotiation we will represent the interest of 27 countries, like we did in negotiations with canada, the us or korea. this should come as no surprise to you.
mr president, i consider it very valuable that the 516 members voted for the joint resolution, because it is a signal. the european union must be united, because only then can we achieve a good outcome for the future relationship with the united kingdom. this divorce is a loss for both sides, and i will miss the british mps. it is our duty to minimize these losses. theresa may has refused to participate in the common market and the customs union. it has thus denied its citizens four fundamental freedoms. we must respect its proposal, but that means finding a new framework that allows for a level playing field for our citizens and for mutually beneficial cooperation. i believe in good cooperation with the uk and i believe in the european union's common approach and also in the self-reflection we have to do.
mr president, i would like to say that human health should be a priority in our assessment at all times, and as far as the compromise proposal is concerned, i was really happy to support it. the negotiations took five years and i think the limits of acceptability have been reached for the plenary, for the majority and for me. i therefore rejected the motion for a resolution which would have rejected the compromise reached. i'm motivated for several reasons. first, there will undoubtedly be improvements in patient safety, improvements in health care, and of course improvements in the tools that are used, as we've already talked about. at the same time, i think that this report, or this recommendation, will further motivate companies to innovate, to be more efficient within the system that they have already set up.
mr president, i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on in vitro medical devices. the intention is to make it easier to identify and trace the medical devices used, and it is right and, of course, in the interest of patients. the regulation should aim to improve the safety of medical devices, to ensure that they are thoroughly checked before they are placed on the market and after they are already on the market. i would like to draw attention to two problems. one concerns the possibility of reconditioning single-use medical devices, i.e. the so-called reprocessing referred to in article 17. the second point is the electronic registration system and its link with the national registers. i would rather have the option of keeping registration at national level with the transmission of validated data to a central european database, but the regulation as such means greater safety for patients. that's why i supported him.
mr president, i supported this report because money market funds provide short-term financing to financial institutions, companies and governments, and thus contribute to the functioning of the money market. the past years of the financial crisis have shown how vulnerable these funds are to risk. it is important that, in this context and with this experience, we establish some uniform prudential requirements that will apply to the operation of those funds in the money market in the european union, while taking full account of the need to balance the safety and soundness of money market funds with the effective functioning of those markets. this cannot be satisfactorily achieved at national level, but it was important that we take this initiative and that is why i supported it.
mr president, i have supported the european parliament's recommendation on the proposal for a regulation adjusting the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. the revision of the multiannual financial framework is moving in the right direction, in particular with regard to the eur 1.4 billion increase in competitiveness support without raising the overall ceilings. i support the principle of reallocation, we will give priority to those programmes that draw on and operate efficiently and contribute to strengthening growth and job creation in all member states. for example, the erasmus+ programme will receive an additional eur 100 million and the horizon 2020 science and research programme an additional eur 200 million under the proposed increase. i believe that the resources thus newly allocated to asylum and migration policy should be primarily used to finance the european border and coast guard and europol.
mr. chairman, thank you for the excellent conduct of this meeting. i did not hesitate to support this recommendation and i am very pleased that we have been able to approve it today in its present form after a long period of blocking by the council. the outdated multiannual financial framework needs to be adjusted as soon as possible in order to address the challenges the european union is facing today. i am thinking in particular of the migration crisis, but there are other problems. i would stress, however, that these new means must be used appropriately. only an efficient and meaningful use of this money will make the european union more accessible, and a common willingness on the part of all of us to make the most of the means to take concrete steps is key to the future of european integration. i see the benefits of increasing flexibility, which will enable the european union to respond to unexpected challenges much better than it has done so far.
mr president, i think this report is moving in the right direction. i wanted to support the revision of the multiannual financial framework and i did. there are a whole host of new priorities that emerge from the crisis, whether it's security in europe, the issue of the migration crisis, of course, and the importance of the crucial protection of the borders of the european union. i would, however, like to make a special point in my speech that these priorities should not further weaken the funding of cohesion policy from the relevant european funds, because this policy is precisely the one that serves the cohesion of the european union, the one that removes the differences between regions, and it would be very unfortunate if this funding chapter were weakened in terms of european support. i think that our main task for the future period is also, not only for me, but for all those who want to speak in favour of this cohesion policy, that it should not be weakened in the new programming period that follows.
mr president, i regret that i could not support this report, although my colleague, mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra, has put a lot of effort into its preparation, because there are a number of points of concern in the report. first, it's an extension of the definition of refugee to include people who have been forced to migrate because of poverty, climate change and natural disasters. it is difficult to determine who will be granted asylum and who will be sent back to their country of origin. moreover, it can be another motivation for people to simply go to europe for a better life. the second point is the unconditionality of the european union's development aid. if we're going to provide development aid, we need to be sure. the assurance that our help will be handled responsibly and not abused. in addition to these two points, i find other problematic points in the report, such as the granting of special status to those who have been displaced by climate change. that is why i think that this report should be reviewed and reconsidered.
ladies and gentlemen, the spread of fake news is a security threat to all member states of the european union. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to third countries, in particular in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance to third countries. in this context, i would like to highlight the new centre against terrorism and hybrid threats established by the ministry of the interior of the czech republic. the office's objective is to monitor threats to the internal security of the state, among which purposeful disinformation coming from abroad is undoubtedly one. i think it is essential that similar offices should be set up in other eu member states to strengthen existing european mechanisms, such as east stratcom, which is currently facing russian propaganda. disinformation platforms such as russia today and sputnik are a danger to europe as a whole. i therefore ask mrs mogherini to give this security threat much more attention than she has been given, including adequate budgetary resources. the underfunding of the defence of the european union against disinformation originating in russia constitutes a significant security risk for the european union. the information war waged by the kremlin against the european union is aimed at breaking up the european union. the kremlin's disinformation campaign targets every member state of the european union from different positions. the fight against it must therefore be conducted at both the central level of the european union and at the level of individual countries.
madam president, a lot of measures have already been referred to today, and i think that one can agree with a lot of those that have been taken at national level, but this is not just a national task and i am glad that the commission is looking into it. i am not a great fan of unnecessary regulation and i would like to point at some measures that can really work pretty well. first of all, reinforce the strategic communication task force that we already have, and establish an online space where the public at large can find a range of tools for identifying this information, with an explanation of how they work; and of course that can also be to the benefit of civil society. secondly, strengthen media plurality and the objectivity, impartiality and independence of the media within the eu and its neighbourhood. thirdly, support journalists and develop capacity-building programmes for media actors. then, develop education programmes in schools to detect fake news. that is where it starts. finally, enhance cooperation among member states for intelligence services. these are concrete measures that can be taken immediately, and i think the eu strategic task force has to be reinforced, and that is underestimated.
madam president, the protection of human rights is at the heart of european values. it is based on respect for the dignity of each individual. this reverence comes from our christian-jewish roots. hate speech is the content and often the vocabulary of the opposite of respect. and it doesn't matter if someone hates for conviction or spreads hate and lies for money - this is the case of kremlin agents on social networks, but also in parliaments. yes, we are in an information war where hate speech and lies have been weaponized. and by overwhelming lies, the information war is about undermining trust in any kind of information. that's the path to chaos and the resulting totalitarianism. hatred and lies undermine trust. and trust is what our society is built on - from families to the monetary system to democracy. so we cannot accept the renaming of lies to alternative facts. but it's also the exaggerated political correctness that creates the space for lies and hatred the unwillingness to name problems with dignity but with clarity. without proper naming of the problems, populism and hate speech are on the rise. how do you deal with it? the spread of disinformation and hate speech needs to be tackled, and i therefore call on the council, the commission and hr mogherini to devote adequate human and financial resources to the detection of disinformation.
for the ecr group. madam president, although i am not in favour of large-scale european regulation, in the case of roaming, unfortunately, this administrative intervention has proved necessary. the market for these cross-border telecommunications services has not been able to find reasonable parameters for a long time. i believe that the introduction of roam-like-at-home and reasonable prices, especially for data services, will not only benefit citizens, but will also help the development of the digital economy as a whole. i would like to acknowledge the great work that miapetra kumpula-natri has done as a reporter and the entire team of shadow reporters, my colleagues, and i am very honored to have been able to participate in this work. and i am pleased that after many hours of negotiations, we have managed to find with the council a solution to the wholesale data ceiling that will allow the end of roaming. i think the compromise we found is a reasonable solution in the end. as the volumes of data transferred increase in the coming years, the maximum price ceilings may fall significantly. but we should also educate our citizens and i would expect the commission to take an active approach to the restrictions associated with the so-called fair use policy. once again, congratulations to the lady reporter on a great job.
madam president, we have had a debate on fake news and hate speech. well, this is not a fake, this is reality. but still, while we do not hear any hate speech, we have seen and listened to some disappointing speech, making out that this is not real progress in terms of enhancing the internal market. we hear stories, for example that brussels is being lobbied. no! it was brussels and the efforts of the commission and the parliament that made it happen. the lobbies are working in the capitals. the council is, and was, the bottleneck. so let us finish with this fake news and face reality. there is, of course, a long way to go. this is an important step but, if we want to build a real digital market, we should be encouraged and pursue this in other sectors. that is certain. finally, it has been said that this is just for the globalists but, come on, this is absolute rubbish. the czech republic must be a rich country because millions and millions of czechs travel on an annual basis. this is the reality for all the people around us. so, yes, there is a certain amount of concern, but that concern can be taken care of at a national level with anti—monopoly efforts, and of course with competition and enhancing the internal market. this is the way to go and we will proceed in this direction, whether we like it or not. this is reality and not fake news.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, ukraine fulfilled all the criteria for the visa-free travel of its citizens to european union. it is perfectly sufficient for granting it. but besides that, ukraine was dragged into a difficult situation, and it deserves our support. years ago, when berlin was divided and also in a difficult situation, a great us president proudly declared himself a berliner. the democratic countries stood by berlin and the principles of the liberal world. also thanks to that, berlin made it; it is united, and germany and europe as well. i see a similarity with the current situation in ukraine. the people of ukraine suffer, and key principles are also heavily present. nowadays i would say that people, wherever they may live, who want a peaceful world and the rule of international law, are, in a way, ukrainians. i am proud that the european parliament and the european union are leading efforts to support and encourage the people of ukraine – for their future and for ours as well.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, i am unequivocally in favour of the abolition of the visa requirement for all european countries. therefore, i also agree to the inclusion of ukraine in annex ii to regulation (ec) no 539/2001. you won't find any of the larger european countries in this regulation. but there's brunei and 13 latin american countries. it is time to start intensive negotiations with the countries of europe on visa facilitation. in each of these countries we can find controversial facts, in particular in ukraine, it is about preventing the activity of the communist and socialist parties, about physical violence against the leading functionaries of these parties, about burning down their offices. during the peaceful demonstrations in maidan, dozens of people were killed and injured, according to the reporter. to this day, the odessa massacre remains uninvestigated. he is a member of the 'people's council' of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. the visa regime has only been a symbolic obstacle to criminal elements entering the european union. it is therefore right that we should relax the regime, which will certainly benefit those who want to work, trade and develop cultural relations. i believe other european countries will soon follow. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
the question posed by the blue card. dear colleague, why do you think it's wrong that the ukrainians banned the communist party? thank you for your answer.
answer the question by raising the blue card. it's very simple. if we assume that we are moving towards democracy in ukraine, then it is not possible to exclude the left forces from the democratic spectrum and prevent them from freely, within the concept of political forces, running for the supreme council, that is, the verkhovna rada. and this is what happened in ukraine, unfortunately.
ladies and gentlemen, sometime earlier this year, i was asked by a ukrainian newspaper to do an interview. the first question the editor asked me was: "why did you throw us - the european union and the european parliament - overboard?" when i caught my breath, the editor continued: "ukrainians are losing faith in you. always promises and words. ukraine is defending you, too. people are dying. and you've been unable to solve a simple issue like visa-free sex for the second year in a row. the eu-ukraine visa liberalisation dialogue was launched as early as 2008. the commission submitted to ukraine an action plan for liberalisation in 2010. in december 2015, the commission considered that ukraine fulfilled all the criteria for visa-free travel. the journey to visa-free took eight years. meanwhile, the maidan took place, russia annexed crimea, war broke out in the east. even these tremors did not destroy the idea that ukraine belongs to europe. in september 2014, our european parliament and the ukrainian parliament ratified the association agreement, and tomorrow we are supposed to approve visa-free travel for ukraine. not only can a ukrainian citizen visit the european union for a full 90 days without a visa, but tomorrow's reception will have a major symbolic meaning. ukraine is part of europe. she wasn't forgotten.
mr president, it is no coincidence that i am the fourth member from the czech republic to speak in today's debate on visa liberalisation, because the czech republic is taking in thousands of ukrainian workers. we have experience with them and we have a great deal of understanding for them. i think that by adding ukraine to the list of countries whose citizens are exempt from the visa requirement, we are sending a clear signal that we are counting on ukraine, and it is also an appreciation of the reform efforts that ukraine had to make. visa liberalization is not free, they have reformed the judicial system, public administration, measures to fight corruption, legislative changes, all in a very complex political and especially security situation, because in the east of ukraine there is still fighting and there is no peace. i very much wish ukraine this success and it is also the fulfillment of the wishes of the young generation who want to live together with europe.
mr president, i also thank you for your gesture, because it's not entirely unusual, and i thank you very much for it. let me also say a few words about what we're discussing here today. i think we should think first of all about the safety of our citizens and the citizens of the european union. and that paper can take it all, that's just a fact. let's look at the reality in ukraine. without international financial support, it would not be able to survive and would go bankrupt. without the various security forces of various oligarchs in place today, none of them would work. teachers are not getting paid, doctors are not getting paid and most importantly, no one is able to ensure that passports that will supposedly be issued to ukrainian citizens will actually be issued only to ukrainian citizens. i understand the political gesture that you want to help ukraine in some way, but i'm not sure if this is help or rather evil for ukraine itself and for the security of european citizens. you're just going to allow ukrainian citizens to leave ukraine, and those who ukraine will one day need to not just stay there and be in europe. and with a safety risk.
member of the commission. – mr president, from this interesting debate i dare to think that there is a large consensus in this house on the need to keep the promises we made to the ukrainian citizens. this is also the recognition of the sustained and comprehensive reform efforts which have been carried out by the ukrainian authorities, particularly in the field of border management, the fight against corruption and anti-discrimination. we will hereby fulfil a longstanding demand by ukrainian citizens and also facilitate interpersonal contacts and cooperation. with the revised suspension mechanism in place, there is no need to delay this important file any further. i therefore call on you all to proceed with the vote on ms gabriel’s report and to bring us one step closer to the conclusion of the whole procedure to grant visa-free travel for ukrainian citizens.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 6 april 2017. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the situation in venezuela (2017/2651(rsp)).
mr. president, what we saw last week in venezuela is not surprising: it is the continuation of what nicolás maduro has been doing for years, silencing the voice of the people, undermining democracy to consolidate his power; in essence, taking all the steps to turn venezuela into a true dictatorship. for two years i have been calling for more action by the european union. together with my colleague teresa jiménez becerril, i wrote a letter to the high representative, asking for a change of approach with regard to venezuela. i am very glad to have received an affirmative answer last week. mrs mogherini rightly recognised that the old way of life cannot be maintained and that all available options must be considered. i hope that words will turn into deeds and that we can firmly support the venezuelan people. i would ask again that our position be firm and that the option of targeted sanctions be considered.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me thank all the honourable members for their interventions. i believe that venezuela needs to re-establish its democratic stability through peaceful and constitutional solutions to address the many challenges that its people are facing. we must keep on encouraging all political forces to follow this agenda. i know that i also can count on this parliament; you have been an important ally in calling for a peaceful and constitutional outcome to the crisis of venezuela, and i encourage you to continue doing so.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on next part-session. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the adequacy of the protection afforded by the eu-us privacy shield (2016/3018(rsp)).
madam president, i would like to begin by expressing my regret that we have left women's issues as usual until the very end of our debate. i think it would be nice to have the status of women brought up at earlier meetings. as regards the current problem, i have to agree with my colleague pospisil that we have no evaluated conclusions, so we will again present only general theses. the priority of the session of the un commission on the status of women was the economic status of women and the overcoming of barriers in the labour market, as well as the opening of a debate on the empowerment of so-called indigenous women. the european parliament has just adopted a recommendation, which was addressed in february this year to the economic status of women and to overcoming barriers in the labour market, ensuring equal participation of women at all levels of decision-making and addressing the needs of the most marginalised women. this was a recommendation. i have heard that it was reflected in the conclusions of this very 61st session of the un commission on the status of women. i think we should focus in particular for the future on gaining global political support for the concept of equality, particularly in the third world, and on analysing the impact of current changes in the labour market on gender equality. because really, the labor market is literally being swamped with new changes, and i think that should be reflected in the status and protection of women.
madam president, i would like to say that the economic empowerment of women was the subject of this year's 61st session, but it was also the subject of many of the parliamentary reports we have dealt with in the past two years, such as the report on women's poverty, on reconciling family and working life, on supporting women in business and in rural settings. i was therefore interested to know what position the council had taken and how satisfied it was with the results. i would like to say to the council representatives that there are more of us here and you have heard the speakers who are opposed to the european union funding of the expansion of abortion as a form of planned parenthood. that's not a measure that can help women. as a member of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i was asked this week by a student about the gender balance on this committee. i was ashamed to say that out of 36 members, only 5 are men. so that's not a fair representation for a proper membership. i think if we want to advise others, say the united states of america, then we should first advise ourselves with a balanced representation of women and men.
the question posed by the blue card. mr. acker, i think you may be living on another planet and that all the interpreters are unable to interpret your pseudo-racist speech. you're saying that the migrants who came to the uk are all criminals, all taking british jobs, that's what you're trying to tell us. and what about the case of the czech who was beaten with a chain a few weeks ago, and the british court today acquitted this same british man and said it was necessary defense, even though we all saw on the video how he was literally beaten by three british men? aren't you ashamed of that?
madam president, i think this debate shows how important it is to simply commemorate this roma day. before i became an mep and before i actually started working, i worked as a street worker for four years and worked with roma. it is interesting to see how their culture and how their coexistence with the majority group in czech society is changing in a significant way. the roma are different and that's what this debate is about. we must remember this difference. the lady in the front row was talking about the problems the roma have. yes, we can say that the roma take drugs. they may be committing a crime, but why are they doing it? that's the basic question. and the fundamental question is: how can we change that? there are several million roma in the european union, perhaps more than some of the nationalities represented in the european parliament. but they don't have a voice. how many meps are roma? how many people from the roma community have made their mark here? how many people from the roma community have the ability to study? we can swear and point out examples of someone driving a mercedes and someone just letting kids run around in the street. but why not also show examples of those roma who work as police officers, lawyers, doctors, who go to italy to wipe the asses of italian pensioners in the normal white majority society. why not mention that example? and that is my question. we've heard from a colleague here in the uk what the roma have done to cause problems in the uk. but why doesn't my colleague from the uk talk about the roma who are normally involved in the work process and who make up british society?
ladies and gentlemen, we recently passed a resolution in support of ildar dadin. he was sentenced to three years in prison in 2015 for public peaceful protest against the war. dadin is a representative of the new russian protest generation, whose weapons are social networks and the internet. twenty years ago, only about 2 percent of russia's population used the internet. today, about 70% of russians use the internet. with the help of the internet, idar was freed. his wife, anastasia, launched a social media campaign that eventually led to his release. the internet has become an alternative to mainstream tv media even during the march protests this year. it was used to call demonstrations. thus, most of the thousands of detainees were young people, including children as young as 14. ildar was arrested again. just for a few hours this time. i called him yesterday. "today it looks more like a fine than a prison sentence", he said. it's as if the kremlin regime has been weakened by the onslaught of a free internet. it's like he's taking the fear out of young russians. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i didn't hear you.
mr president, the weaker the european union is, the more silent it is, the more blind it is, the less responsive it is, the stronger the kremlin will be, the more harassment we will see and witness, and i am afraid one day we might see again an opposition politician or maybe an anti-corruption activist shot somewhere by a bridge. that is a reality. what was the reaction of the european union to the recent harassment? what is the strategy of the european union? i call upon us, after we pass this resolution, to have a serious debate here in the plenary in parliament, to have a strategy vis-à-vis russia. i am not targeting russia, i am targeting the kremlin, the practices, the abuse of human rights. at the same time, i can see opportunities vis-à-vis smes, civil society, and russian citizens. there is something that we can do and also split the kremlin from its citizens. that is the way to proceed.
mr president, the european parliament again raises its voice to support those in russia who risk their lives for democracy and freedom. unfortunately, putin is in power and using all means to suppress the opposition. yes, mr. taranto, russia is not a democracy, but 100 years after the bolshevik revolution, it is time for russia to wake up and the people to demand freedom. there are people in russia who are willing to take risks and make personal sacrifices. i respect them and i am very pleased that the european parliament wants to defend them. mr navalny is indeed an opposition politician who is clearly a threat to putin, and that is why he is being persecuted. what a contrast to life in the european union, where people in our member states live freely and can express their opposition. that's what i'm saying to my colleagues here in the national front. they can express themselves freely in the press and in the media, they are not imprisoned for it. calling for mr navalny's release is our duty.
mr president, as my predecessor said, the situation in belarus has deteriorated very much. just as the suppression of media independence and opposition has increased in recent days, the economy's performance has decreased. gross domestic product is down by almost 4%, inflation is rising sharply and public debt is growing by the day. these adverse economic conditions brought thousands of citizens to the streets across belarus in late march, peacefully demonstrating their dissatisfaction with the situation in the country. unfortunately, the regime has responded with great repression. i would like to remind you that among the hundreds of people arrested are members of the opposition christian democratic and civic parties. they're being arrested for participating in a peaceful demonstration. pavel sevyarynets was detained for ten days and fined, vitali rymaševsky was detained and given a large fine of one thousand euros for participating in a peaceful demonstration, anatol ljabedzka was detained and also fined. i think our resolution should make it clear that we will monitor the situation and hold the belarusian regime accountable.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, well, it looks like the honeymoon is over and the first signs of a possible minsk spring are also over. well, sometimes less is more, so i will be very brief. conditionality has to apply. we have lifted sanctions, we have provided concessions, and we expected changes. those did not arrive. there is a crackdown, so we must reintroduce sanctions, and this time they have to be harder. once again, once we see concrete changes and reforms we can add, but at the moment there is no other action than to take a very hard and tough stand.
mr president, the european union has taken a series of conciliatory steps towards belarus in recent years. the response of the lukashenko regime was a new round of repression, including the introduction of a surplus tax, which has affected some 470 thousand belarusian citizens this year. in response, unprecedented numbers of people took to the streets, many of them arbitrarily arrested, fined and detained in custody. he has been involved in the repression of the ukrainian people. i call on the belarusian government to release these protesters, journalists, civil society activists and political prisoners. the belarusian regime's willingness to embrace the concept of human rights and civil society is clearly absent, and the citizens of belarus do not deserve it.
author. – mr president, child marriage is a violation of human rights. children are simply not able to give their full consent, and there is enough evidence showing the serious psychological and physical impact of marrying as a child. bangladesh knows this and has tried to reduce the number of child marriages, but taking away the minimum age and creating special conditions for children to marry is not a solution. there can be no special cases when it comes to violation of human rights. bangladesh already had one of the highest rates of child marriage in the world with the ban in place. the new law will simply encourage the practice to continue and even intensify the current situation. the bangladeshi authorities must act now to ensure that this does not happen. the special circumstances that allow for child marriage must be clearly defined and very difficult to use. the penalties for breaking the law must be strong and upheld to deter child marriage from the outset. for cases where a girl becomes pregnant, other safe and legal alternatives to marriage must be available. the eu must be active and willing to support the bangladeshi authorities to achieve this and, on a broader scale, to respect all of its human rights obligations.
author. mr president, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, i would like to say that despite the progress made in many areas, human rights are still being suppressed in many respects in bangladesh. i am thinking in particular of child marriages, especially of girls under the age of 18, and even under the age of 15. i am very impressed that in february this year, a law was passed in bangladesh that de facto allows these practices to continue. this is despite the fact that the bangladeshi government recently committed to gradually reducing the rate of child marriage. there is also a continuing suppression of children's rights, with negative effects on their psychological well-being, education and future life. we can't have that. we must appeal to the local government to change this law and to ban all child marriages without exception.
mr president, i too would like to condemn very strongly the forced child marriages that are taking place in bangladesh. i think it's important not only to condemn this fact, but also the law of the hole as it's been described here. also, the non-compliance with the international commitments that bangladesh has made. i think it's all very reprehensible. but i think we should also not be hypocrites and at the same time we should say what happens if a resident of a muslim country comes to a european country and has a wife who is, for example, under the age of 15 and they consume marriage in the european area. i think we should make it clear in this case too that such behaviour is unacceptable in the european area and that we should also condemn the behaviour that is taking place, and that we know about, on the territory of europe. we should send a clear message to the member states of the european union in this regard.
in writing. at the plenary session in strasbourg on 6 april, we discussed the joint motion for a resolution on bangladesh, including child marriage. the european union has longstanding relations with bangladesh, including a partnership and development cooperation agreement. promoting human rights and democratic principles is one of the eu's core principles, not only in domestic but also in international politics. however, in recent months, there have been human rights violations, enforced disappearances, repression of civil society, attacks on political activists and torture, according to independent observers. in addition, bangladesh still has the highest rate of child marriage in the world. we call on the government of bangladesh to end child marriage, to condemn the continued reprehensible acts against freedom of expression and to ensure an immediate end to all acts of violence, harassment, intimidation and censorship directed against journalists, bloggers and civil society.
the next item is the vote.
i do apologise on behalf of the services. it was shown but only very briefly. we will show the figures.
that concludes the vote.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
mr. president, i want to ask you, when you recommend consulting citizens, have you consulted this draft amendment to the higher education act with citizens? because what you're proposing is simply disposable. hungary can of course decide on the conditions under which the universities will carry out their education, but you know that the six new legal conditions, including the us-hungary treaty, cannot be achieved in six months. so what that means is, if you want to improve the conditions, make education transparent, i agree, that's your right, but give all the colleges the opportunity to meet those conditions. that's my request to you.
madam president, i have three short remarks on turkey. first, concerning the referendum, i believe that we should respect the result of a popular vote, as we do in other cases. if the turkish people decided to change their parliamentary system to a presidential one they are perfectly entitled to do so, and there is nothing undemocratic as such in this decision. however – and this is my second remark – we should express some concerns vis-à-vis the state of freedom and democracy in turkey, regardless of the results of the referendum. turkey, of course, has been facing tough times, with an attempted coup, the war in syria, pkk terrorism and parallel structures, but those situations cannot justify restrictions in the field of freedom and democracy, particularly when it comes to oppressing the academic world and state institutions such as the judiciary. last, but not least, let us be very fair concerning negotiations on eu accession because there are countries that openly express their unwillingness to accept turkey as a full member of the eu at any time, and turkey should be told so.
madam president, turkey has been and is our important ally in nato and a partner in solving the migration crisis. the eu-turkey agreement is in place and i would say it is working. the strengthening of presidential powers proposed in the referendum won a narrow majority. and president erdogan should realize that he doesn't have a strong mandate for such a fundamental change. i would also like to call on the commissioner to start negotiating a new form of cooperation, as the president of the group of the european people's party, mr manfred weber, has said here, sectoral cooperation. i would like to call on president erdogan to prove that turkey can be a politically democratic and pluralistic country and to also advocate for a fair trial for the two young czechs who are imprisoned and awaiting trial, so that they are tried fairly and freed because they are innocent.
in writing. in turkey, 8,500 police officers carried out raids in 81 provinces on wednesday night. the targeted officers and police personnel were suspected of belonging to fethullah gülen's movement. 803 people were arrested. tens of thousands of people have been arrested so far. journalists, soldiers, police officers, among those arrested is the former mep, elected in germany on the candidate of die linke, uca feleknas. more than 100,000 employees were dismissed from the civil service. the alleged coup leader, gulen, who has been extradited by the us attorney's office in turkey, faces a maximum sentence of life in prison plus 1,900 years if convicted. turkish air force strikes in northern iraq and syria on the night of april 25th. the targets were the outposts of the outlawed kurdistan workers' party (pkk) operating in those areas, according to the official report. these latest reports suggest that the current regime in turkey is clearly not a standard democracy. the regime is gradually retreating from atatürk's legacy in two key ways: it is weakening the role of the military, which has always been the guardian of the secular regime, and it is strengthening the influence of islam in public life. analysis of the referendum result shows that the strengthening of the president's position has supported the countryside and the backward areas of the country, including the second generation turks living in europe. in contrast, turkey's large cities, developed industrial areas and the kurdish diaspora have not supported the president.
mr president, the european year of cultural heritage 2018 will take place in a symbolic year, marking the 100th anniversary of the end of the first world war, which allowed the emergence of new states in europe, including czechoslovakia. today, europe is once again experiencing a political crisis of mistrust. and this is a situation where we can again rely on the great cultural heritage: the wealth that unites us. to know more about history, to make it accessible, especially to young people, is also to understand better the situation today. i would like to tell my colleague, mrs adinolfi, that the year of cultural heritage cannot be just a campaign and it will not be. i had the opportunity yesterday to attend my first meeting with representatives of the european commission as an observer for the committee on culture and education. i would like to thank the commissioner and his team, because they are not waiting until the legislation is adopted to start, but are already preparing activities so that the year of cultural heritage can live up to our expectations and europe can live up to its cultural wealth.
the rapporteur. mr president, the european union joint undertakings make a very important contribution to the development of european research and its practical application. the share of eu investment in joint ventures is not negligible: in 2015, the enterprises had a budget of over eur 1,3 billion. last year, the plenary decided to postpone three reports in the first round, namely for iter, eniac and artemis: i note that artemis and eniac have been merged into ecsel, so that only ecsel is included in the discharge this year. all the deferred discharge was finally adopted at the september plenary session. i am pleased that, unlike last year, this year, in my role as rapporteur, i do not have to propose the postponement of these discharge procedures for a single joint undertaking. my position was endorsed by the majority of the members of the committee on budgetary control. the council of the european union also recommended in february that budgetary discharge be given to all joint undertakings. the european court of auditors, as well as the subsequent committee on budgetary control, noted significant improvements, in particular in the areas previously highlighted by these two institutions in the process of preparing the 2015 discharge. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes. we cannot deny that the start-up of projects is taking longer than we would like, but in this respect joint ventures face major challenges. on the other hand, and i do not wish to minimize the importance of this, delays are often caused by high demands on the quality of projects. in any event, the 2015 audit reports present separately the results relating to the seventh framework programme and horizon 2020, as requested by the european parliament in the past. last year, the european parliament made several horizontal comments on the court of auditors and the structure of its reports. it is clear that the european court of auditors has tried to incorporate and take account of our observations. i very much appreciate the quality of the european court of auditors' 2015 reports, as well as the very effective cooperation with the individual joint undertakings during the preparation of the reports. as i have mentioned, all the joint undertakings have made significant improvements and corrections in a number of areas that both the european court of auditors and the european parliament have pointed out in the past. perhaps the biggest shift we have seen is with the fusion for energy joint undertaking, which represents the european union in the iter project. i do not deny that iter still represents the greatest challenge of all the joint undertakings, and i will deal with this in much more detail in a moment. this year, for the first time, we are deciding to grant budgetary discharge to the new joint undertaking for biotechnology-based industries, bbi. the commission also found that the company had not been able to obtain sufficient information to establish that it had been operating independently since october 2015. as in the previous year, the ecsel joint undertaking received a qualified opinion this year. this was only due to the unfortunate setting up of the legislative framework of the seventh framework programme, i.e. the impossibility of auditing the national certification bodies by the court of auditors. we already drew attention to this in our debates last year and made it clear that the systemic problem is in the horizon 2020 regulation and that it has been removed during this time. in principle, the court of auditors has no choice and will have no choice until the financial operations relating to artemis and eniac have been closed, but to grant a qualified opinion, as is required by the court of auditors' regulation. ecsel has also obtained certificates from all the national financial authorities for ex-post audits of payments this year. i would remind you that, on the basis of the presentation of these certificates, we decided to grant this year's discharge. in the 2015 accounts, for the first time, most enterprises account for two types of in-kind costs, the so-called ikop, i.e. standard in-kind costs as we know them, and the so-called ikaa, which are costs for additional private sector activities that are not financed by the european union budget but contribute to the same objectives. there are methodologies for calculating the costs of additional activities, but these vary widely from sector to sector. the calculation is subject to the assessment of external auditors. the european court of auditors does not have control competence over the costs of these activities, which raises further problems. i think that the calculation of the additional costs will need to be given much more attention next year. furthermore, i would point out that the joint undertakings calculate the in-kind costs of the icpo, i.e. the costs of the operational activities, on the basis of estimates. practice shows that there is a common problem with the settlement by the partners by the required deadline of 31 january of the following year. however, this problem cannot be solved at the level of the joint undertakings, since it depends on the closure date of the accounts of each member state. this is largely a formal problem rather than a risk to european investment, but it is certainly a problem. finally, a brief word on fusion for energy, whose financing is of course the focus of attention. neither the european court of justice nor the european parliament, as the guardian of the budget, can ignore the fact that the cost of this unique project has increased. on the other hand, it's quite clear that in 2015 a new course was set and by that time there had been... (the president cut off the speaker)
draftswoman of the committee on employment and social affairs. mr president, commissioner, president of the european court of auditors, tomorrow we are going to approve the most important documents on the management of the common european resources. i would like to add a few remarks on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe. as rapporteur for the european commission's 2014 discharge main report, i already worked last year to ensure that discharge was seen as a meaningful part of the life cycle of european citizens' money. that's why i'm glad the discharge becomes a logical and objective document, not a tool for the prosecution of randomly selected offenders. i would like to thank rapporteur zeller very much for continuing this journey. we must not only find, describe and correct errors, but above all we must learn from them, identify the cause of the failure and find long-term solutions, ideally preventive in nature. however, the problem of error can never have a one-size-fits-all solution for all member states. i therefore think it is important that we learn from each other, look for examples of good practice and not waste time looking for solutions that already exist. the same should be our view of outcome and performance, and thank you for mentioning that too, commissioner. the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe will never fail to ensure that projects are properly audited, that financial management is properly carried out, that there is transparency, objectivity and accountability in the management of european funds. but on the other hand, we want to see concrete results, added value and tangible benefits for every euro invested. our primary interest is the realisation of meaningful projects with high added value, which raise the standard of living of the citizens of the european union. all scarce resources, and even more so financial resources, must be allocated efficiently and economically in order to guarantee the highest possible added value from the perspective of the provider and the recipient. i thank the european commission, the european court of auditors for their cooperation and all my colleagues on the committee on budgetary control for their tireless work. thank you for your attention and look out for more discharges!
mr president, at the beginning of this debate you did not limit or say that green cards are prohibited. i therefore want to ask, under the rules of procedure, when i gave the green card after mrs gräßle was attacked, and i want to ask mr geier what he bases his claims on, why and under what paragraph of the rules of procedure was i not allowed to use the green card at this sitting? can you explain that? can you explain why your two co-workers sitting next to you, seeing this green card signaling, didn't react?
mr president, first of all, i would like to object very strongly to the allegation made by our president, ingeborg gräßle, that she has been dealing with someone in this chamber or with a former president of the european parliament in the course of a campaign. i find such accusations really stupid and it is a pity that a colleague is not here to hear this speech of mine. and i would also say to the agencies, ladies and gentlemen, after two or three years of hard work and riding the agencies, i can say that the results of the agencies are simply excellent. we have to say that the agencies have made tremendous progress. but what all our agencies don't know is that they don't know how to present the work. i'm very happy to work with mr. lehn and the european court of auditors, because it's thanks to their pressure and thanks to their new methods and new approach that these things are beautifully seen. so i wish we all were able to present this work better. and really, let me object to what's been said here. it is completely, completely unworthy and false of mrs. gräßle.
mr president, the tragedy that happened in bangladesh was a late wake-up call for european consumers. we started to study corporate responsibility, and we found, for example, that the tragedy in bangladesh had not been investigated, nor had the specific perpetrators been identified. it is important to remember that in developing countries, 50 to 60 million people work in this sector, in terrible conditions: often child labour, continuous hours of work, much has been said about this. i am in favour of trying to regulate this environment within the framework of fair trade, or putting pressure on european companies that import goods from these countries to actually meet these basic criteria. that is the content of this report, and i am happy to support it.
mr president, i would like to speak about the role of the council of europe and its diminished influence, because the council of europe is another international organisation which operates on the territory of europe. it is in particular responsible for the protection of human rights and international cooperation, and the council of europe itself is somewhat weakened by the russian federation's refusal to recognise several of its judgments. i would like to say that this organization is responsible for human rights and the famous strasbourg court. i believe that it is a great pity that the european union has not become a party to the european convention on human rights, and that it would be appropriate for the european union to consider this step, that is, to become a party to the european convention and then to establish a mechanism for the recognition of the strasbourg judgments at the level of the european union.
madam president, i would like to begin by saying that i support this report. it is important to note that the statements of the european investment bank do show that there is an increase in risk. in general, an investment bank should take a certain amount of risk, and it has rules and criteria for doing so. i would like to say, however, that the famous juncker investment fund should be seen as complementary to the activities of the european investment bank. unfortunately, that doesn't happen very often. we would also like the juncker investment fund to focus more on risky financial instruments and not to compete too much with the european union's structural and investment funds. i think that is the fundamental problem, where there are fluctuations, for example in the activities of the european investment bank, which then channels the funds elsewhere. so this should be coordinated at the level of all the policies of the european investment bank and the structural funds.
madam president, i supported this report and was surprised to hear one of my colleagues explain that the programme is actually useless. i find that to be a very absurd assertion. first, the programme is designed to help member states implement structural reforms, and there are so many areas where europe is running out of breath that deep structural reforms are needed. secondly, this programme is open to partnerships between municipalities, cities and regions, and this partnership is very important because if the government does not meet the macroeconomic conditionality of cohesion policy, then the municipalities and cities are punished for this, among others. it is important that they not only lose money, but also that they can participate in the implementation of structural reforms. the programme is not very rich, eur 140 million is not a large sum, but it can help where, as i said at the beginning, europe is actually running out of breath.
i would like to stress, madam president, that it is very important that the european parliament has adopted today the decision on the european year of cultural heritage by a large majority of members: 554 of those present. this is a great boost for next year and also a boost for the changes that the european parliament has proposed to the european commission. we have proposed to highlight 2018 as the symbolic year of the 100th anniversary of the end of the first world war and also the year when several new states were born in europe a hundred years ago. we also stressed the need to learn from history so that we can better decide on the present and future of our common europe. the european parliament has also increased the budget for this year to eur 8 million and i think it is important that preparations can now begin to make this year a real success.
madam president, i supported this report and i am very pleased that 2018 has been chosen as the european year of cultural heritage. we are showing the direction of our priorities, we are showing that culture is indeed a value which is of crucial importance, especially in these years, and i think also for the future of europe as such, because culture defines us as we are and reflects our surroundings. i want to support the fact that the budget has increased, albeit a little, but at the same time i want to appreciate that 2018 coincides with the year of the celebration of czech and czechoslovak statehood, because in 2018 the czech republic (respectively czechoslovakia) will commemorate one hundred years since gaining independence. i think it will be a great challenge for the czech government to find enough links for events related to european cultural heritage. i don't think much is happening.
madam president, we voted today on 52 discharge for the institutions and agencies of the european union. i'd like to comment on two. the first is eurofound, an agency with which i have had specific experience in using its studies and publications in the committee on employment and social affairs. the agency managed eur 20,86 billion in 2015. i believe that these funds are being used effectively. we will try to make this work even more efficient as part of the amendment of the legal basis for eurofound. i think the discharge was rightly granted.
madam president, this is therefore a discharge for frontex, whose resources were increased by 46% in 2015. i believe that, in view of the european union's priorities, namely the protection of the external borders, this increase was entirely appropriate. with increased resources, the agency has been able to save hundreds of thousands of lives, even putting the figure at 250,000 people at sea. however, for further and more effective action, it is necessary to divide and define the responsibilities between frontex and the internal security fund in order to avoid unnecessary duplication of activities and thus waste of resources. it is good that this agency has received a report from the court of auditors stating that the funds have been paid in accordance with the objectives set.
the eu is facing a huge amount of mistrust from european citizens today. today, more than ever, it should show that it is about transparency, about getting on the side of the voters, on the side of the european citizens, and about restoring credibility not only to the european institutions but also, and above all, to the member states that make up the eu. in many member states, the eu has lost credibility because of its representatives. commissioner, at the beginning we applauded the determination to change things, but unfortunately, as mrs pietra's report shows, you as the european commission have not changed much in recent months or in recent years. it's something we need to focus on. the annual report reflects what is wrong with the eu, and our task as european politicians is to restore trust in the eu. protecting europe's financial interests should be one of the eu's key priorities. we must prevent europeans from seeing the benefits of the eu as an opportunity for fraud and corruption. unfortunately, i have to say that even some high-ranking officials in the member states themselves - and the czech republic, not to mention the czech republic - are giving reasons for this. corruption and fraud undermine basic democratic principles across the eu and cost taxpayers hundreds of millions of euros a year. in this situation, commissioner, i regret the approach of the european commission and i firmly believe that after hearing our arguments you will try to change it.
madam president, the european qualifications framework is the main tool for simplification of mobility of employees and greater comparability of the qualifications system. qualifications differ across the european union, which makes it difficult for employers to assess skills. the european qualifications framework should facilitate opportunities in a knowledge-based society and ensure a better permeability between education and training systems in order to improve the match between the education programmes and the needs of the labour market. the commission proposes to revise the system, as the commissioner has just stated here. i would like to emphasise that the commission should focus more on the implementation of the current framework, because the current framework has not been fully introduced yet by member states. so we have new proposals on the table. when implementing them, the commission should create an effective system with involvement by all relevant stakeholders. it is also very important that the commission support a mechanism to enable comparison and recognition of third countries’ qualifications and the swift validation of informal and non-formal learning. we have asked the commission relevant questions in our oral question, and we also tabled relevant recommendations in our motion for a resolution. i am looking forward to a fruitful debate and cooperation on new legislation.
i would like to point out in advance that every sensible citizen, every entrepreneur in the european area must promote the strengthening of the competences of employees, their professional growth, and, of course, the comparison of vocational and academic training in general. the problem is that the targets set just a few years ago have not yet been met. the problem also lies with the member states, their lack of implementation of the set targets. this is the major problem with respect to the rules on which the eu is founded. if the union is failing to apply these fundamental rules, which are then to be used to achieve the fundamental freedoms of the eu and the single internal market, then i think it is indeed failing. we should remove, in particular, the administrative obstacles already mentioned in the recognition of these qualifications. this is the eu's job, to remove barriers, and i only hope that in a few years' time, when this framework is reviewed, our successors will not have to find that the expectations and objectives we have set for ourselves have not been met. i hope very much that this proposal will be further promoted at the level of the european institutions.
food waste is growing at an alarming rate in the eu. we're talking about 173 kilos per capita for the year. the production and disposal of this waste eliminates up to 170 million tons of co2. there is constant pressure to reduce emissions from all directions and in all sectors. we're talking about a new energy efficiency regulation, and we're not talking about a new energy efficiency law. we promote organic, eco and similar brands to prevent the irreversible environmental impacts of consumption. yet the average european throws away tens of kilograms of food a year, and this is not a sustainable situation. our insatiable consumption is burning the world. as it turned out, for example, with palm oil. the situation is that we, through our demand, devastate one part of the world, and then we throw things from the fabrics we've produced horribly into the trash in millions of tons and burn them for further emissions. well, that is outrageous. i therefore very much welcome not only this report by mrs borzanova but also the circular economy package as drafted by this institution. i'd go further, though. i would definitely make a non-binding target of reducing the production of this waste by 50% by 2050 a binding target. it is quite clear that we cannot go on like this.
i actually really identify with most of the views of my speakers, my colleagues. i would like to point out that, of course, each of us should be ashamed, perhaps in our lives, if we open the refrigerator and have to throw something out. knowing how many millions of people on the planet are starving. it is certainly a question of thrift, of our own personal approach both to resources and, if necessary, to their production, and of course, to some kind of destruction or disposal, and this is something we should also be aware of in our personal approach. 'enlightenment, enlightenment, enlightenment!' i naturally want to say, knowing how much food is wasted every day. we should also say that there are problems at the eu level, because i don't know how many of you know, but there is a certain standardization in the food sector, and some apples, if they are not of a certain size, they cannot go directly to the consumer, they have to go into secondary production, for example. and it has nothing to do with the nutrition and the nutritional value of the apple. it's just an artificial rule that the eu has set up, so we should be reaching out to our own conscience on this as well. i welcome the instruments, the incentives, that are mentioned in the report. i think they're going in the very right direction, but i also want to caution against trying to be too paternalistic about interfering in people's lives. we have to talk about it, we have to do as much as we can to educate, but to go directly into people's lives with strict regulations, i would be a little bit defensive.
i have joined this debate, although i think that concrete solutions to prevent more food waste must be adopted by the member states. yet we can learn from each other and coordinate our activities at eu level. i think it is very important from the motion for a resolution that the eu should make recommendations, that it should look at how to prevent food waste and how to save food. it has already been said that up to 30% of food in the eu is simply thrown away. i think the goal of reducing food waste by 50 percent by 2030 as a non-binding goal is nice, but we have to look at how it helps those who don't have food. i think that's what's missing from the targets. so that's where we should be focusing.
i was recently the rapporteur of this document in the cont committee and we came to the conclusion that the beginning is actually wrong. we want to deal with the chicken, but we don't deal with the egg. why is he wasting so much food? because the eu is putting an incredible amount of money into absolutely unproductive food production. look at agriculture, it's one fraud next to another. where is the eu's biggest cheating zone? and let's look at where that money goes and where food is produced and how it's produced. i think we need to change the whole strategy. it says here that 88 million tons of food is wasted every year, but it doesn't say here that it's 143 billion euros. it's the entire annual eu budget. so if we want to make a difference, we have to start here.
i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on the very good report she has produced. there has been some criticism of this report, and i do not often say these words of praise to the rapporteurs, and in this case i really must and must defend her work. i would also like to say that the customs union is a great project and i think it reflects precisely this common desire of the european communities in some historical context. i would also like to highlight the work of all the customs offices and thank all the customs officers, because they are doing, in my opinion, a great job. it is precisely this cooperation and coordination between customs offices that is absolutely essential for the functioning of the customs union. of course, smuggling is a long-standing problem, but it's hardly unresolved. we have a set of business rules. they are written and they are to be obeyed and their non-observance must, of course, be sanctioned. that's the equality of those rules. most of the time, it's the people who don't follow the rules that have the advantage, and we definitely shouldn't allow that. i mean, the same rules apply to everyone. if we are to talk about legal entries into the european market, then of course this has to be at the level of ports and other entries and these are to function as the only legal entries. of course, there are many consequences to illegal trade. whether it's smuggling, supporting organized crime or even terrorism. these are all negative consequences of which we are aware and where we must call for cooperation between the member states, the individual customs offices, in order to really suppress and combat these negative consequences.
i consider the standardisation and harmonisation of customs controls or criminal sanctions to be a step in the right direction. the customs union requires appropriate harmonisation at eu level. so far, we have different customs procedures, such as clearance, audits, sanctions or controls, which cause fragmentation and, in addition, additional administrative burden. it is these differences that allow traders in counterfeit or otherwise undervalued goods to gain access to the internal market. the speakers have already made a sufficient assessment of this situation. the goods are then transported to their final destination by an unusual route, avoiding customs clearance controls or complicating recovery. this is a matter which the commission should definitely address and i am glad that the commissioner has committed himself to the enforcement of the customs code and better enforcement of existing law.
i would like to start by saying that i welcome the new action plan and that online public services are a priority for the 21st century. digitizing the public administration and digitizing the processes of public administration, that is absolutely key to our future. i also welcome the call for all public administrations to be open and transparent by 2022. it's a relatively ambitious goal. i also want to welcome the call for the digitisation of healthcare services, because these healthcare services can improve the quality of life of citizens. cross-border egovernment is absolutely essential for the realisation of all four freedoms that are the foundation of the eu. i generally welcome this action plan.
i'd like to take this one minute to bring attention to a problem that's not talked about much here. it's a problem with the spin of the tachometer, or the so-called odometer fraud. it's a fairly simple manipulation. in about a minute, commissioner, you can earn €1,000. who wouldn't want that? in poland, in germany, in other countries, this problem is constantly raging and growing. the commission has not responded to this problem despite constant warnings. commissioner, a third of all used cars have a curveball. it's not just a problem in the czech republic, it's a problem in germany. i therefore ask you whether the commission will finally stop sticking its head in the sand and start to really tackle these problems that really bother eu citizens and whether it will actually do something about them.
i would like to speak about the question of the use of european funds, because the question of the cohesion of eu policies and growth in the regions is, in my view, the crucial one and indeed the priority one. bridging the gap between the less developed regions is one of the strengths on which the eu is undoubtedly built. the increase in bureaucracy, which is directed from the european level in the use of these european funds, must be addressed. it is truly unprecedented and unusual. we have achieved three times as many rules for the use of european funds as in previous periods. we must also remember that the commission is undoubtedly also to blame for its fundamental laxity in approving operational programmes. i want to call on the commission and the eu institutions to help member states draw on european funds by giving them the necessary authorisation and reducing the administrative burden.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have many friends in france and i was very concerned about the rise of populism in france. france is a founding member of the european union and plays a key role in its development. i also recall the richness of relations between france and my country, the czech republic, and for these reasons i was pleased with the result of the presidential election. emmanuel macron, as president, represents the hope of a policy of european construction that respects other countries. after brexit, we need to restore citizens' trust in the european institutions. emmanuel macron is faced with difficult tasks: to unite france and unite europe. it has raised great expectations. i wish him well, for the success of a united europe.
first, let me respond to my forewords. ladies and gentlemen, do you think that if you tell someone to do something, it works in life? i have four little kids. when i tell them they have to clean, believe me, the kids never clean. when i use the word have, pressure, sanctions, the child responds by trying to fight those sanctions even more, and that's what i think this debate is about. ordering someone to do something against their will is just nonsense. i've already said, commissioner, several times in this place that the whole relocation mechanism is simply one big utopian project. if this project had worked, the fact is that only 30% of countries actually refuse to accept refugees or to submit to this relocation mechanism. that would be distributed, by my calculations, about 120,000 refugees, but 120,000 refugees or needy people are not distributed. we've been talking about this system for two years. i think that this system is unnecessarily rigid, and we're rigid about it as the only solution to the migration crisis, but it's not the only solution to the migration crisis. let's face it, let's face it critically, that this system will never work. solidarity forced in the form of threats simply will never work.
the commissioner said that the redistribution was not working, but unfortunately, there was no explanation. in may 2017, the commission published a table showing a very different approach. after all, the uk has decided to take a hard line and leave the eu, and it's no secret that illegal migration and the fear of it was one of the main arguments for brexit. solidarity is the principle on which the eu is founded. refugees who need help, who are entitled to help, we have to help them and we have the capacity to do so. the czech republic has agreed to accept its capacity of less than 3,000 refugees despite being voted down. unfortunately, to date, this capacity has not been fulfilled, and i have information from the ministry of the interior that it is not just the unwillingness of the czech republic, but the unwillingness of refugees to this relocation.
commissioner katainen presented plans for how the european commission intends to manage globalisation by 2025. i think it's a pretty pointless idea. we can adapt to globalization, to trade, to the contracts that companies and individuals make with each other, but we can't fight it. i have heard the commissioner speak against laissez-faire free markets and other speakers speak against free markets, and i feel that i am the only one here who supports the principle of laissez-faire free markets. i was listening to mr scholz quoting karl marx, and others were calling for blacklists of low-tax countries, etc. so i feel that regardless of the political party, there is only one socialist sitting next to another, one communist, one commission, that's an exception, there are all socialists sitting next to each other.
the subject is indeed so global that it cannot be covered in all its aspects. i'd focus on just two in my post. the question of reciprocity is what i see as crucial to trade relations in a globalised world. it is indeed very important that third parties gain access to the european market in such a way that the eu and its member states gain some tangible, measurable benefits in return. even in the field of human rights, if we are talking about a whole range of issues, human rights violations in neighboring countries, it is important that we can also enforce our vision of human rights precisely in relation to, for example, access to our market or the provision of disadvantages. one thing about dumping. i would really like to call for, if we insist on very strict criteria for certain products to be allowed on our market, to insist on those criteria for third parties as well.
i supported this action plan and i am somewhat surprised that this agenda should fall under the exclusive competence of the member states, as we heard from the honourable member. i am convinced that for the implementation of all four fundamental freedoms in particular, but also for cross-border egovernment in general, the electronicisation of public administration is absolutely crucial. it is also important in other areas, such as the countryside. that's been mentioned here. or the electronics of healthcare can make a qualitative contribution to improving the quality of life. these are all areas where we need to invest in digitizing the decision-making processes of public administrations. i could count a lot more here. indeed, ensuring the electronicisation of public administration at all levels and the access to the internet for all sections of the eu population must be a priority for the 21st century.
we're all aware that in recent years, everything around us has been digitized. that is why i welcome the european commission's action plan, which seeks to respect the trend that is progressing in our society. i am absolutely convinced that it is the digitalisation of public administration that will help to improve both its accessibility and the quality of public services, as well as the fight against corruption, and will help the citizens of individual countries, such as small and medium-sized enterprises, which are often forgotten in this regard. personally, i think that in the future we need to address cross-border egovernment, because i think it is an important step towards fulfilling the four fundamental freedoms of the eu.
i don't generally welcome some of the initiative reports, but this one is definitely very important to me because it highlights a problem that each of us can influence a little bit by our own behavior. in light of how many millions of people in the world go hungry every day, every food thrown out of our fridge is actually a slap in the face to those people. this report is very good, it's descriptive, it shows how many millions of tons of food we throw away, how many millions of tons of resources we use to process that food waste, and so on. there is one proposal which i think is very sensible, and that is the question of the vat incentive. i would very much like the commission to hear this appeal. i have supported this report, as is clear from my explanation which i am now giving, but i would also like to say that we cannot stop at this report. we have to tell people that it's also about their behavior. so, enlightenment, enlightenment, enlightenment. this is the way to go.
i would say that i voted for this report because i consider it very important, but perhaps i am missing one crucial point that was not mentioned here, and that is that there is no methodology to measure food waste. i think that is where the european commission should start. then we can move on to the next item. like what packaging we can use today to avoid wasting food, or explaining the terms consume by or minimum durability. i think that many consumers do not recognise or know the difference between these two terms.
as far as this report is concerned, i supported it. i really consider the customs union to be one of the great eu projects and i want to thank all the customs officers for the excellent work they are doing. yes, it is true that customs procedures are often very complex, administratively demanding and it is our task to eliminate as much of this administrative burden as possible. we must also, of course, encourage customs authorities to cooperate and coordinate their cooperation, which is often very difficult, at european level. this is very important precisely in terms of fighting illegal trade, because it violates the right to demand that all obligations be fulfilled. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are respected, and i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights.
i also surprisingly supported this report because i see the eu and the customs union in it as the basis for some future world development. in my view, the customs authorities also play an important role in the protection of economic interests. it is important that they have an effective strategy and also that they reduce the harmful consequences of illegal trade. but with growing international trade, new challenges in trade need to be addressed. there is a need to improve cooperation between customs authorities and, in particular, the exchange of data between customs authorities. it is also important that customs authorities in different member states follow the same procedure and that european rules are not interpreted differently repeatedly.
"we trained and armed people we know nothing about, and they turned to us for the islamic state", donald trump said. it is a pity that the politicians of the united kingdom, france and germany, and of the european union, are not capable of the same self-reflection as the president of the united states. after the similar sanctions that you have gradually imposed on the syrian regime of bashar al-assad, ladies and gentlemen, nowhere in the world has there been a positive change of regime. sanctions linked to military intervention are causing disintegration in somalia and libya. the long-term crisis in afghanistan and other similar countries is the result of this senseless policy. the only way to resolve the situation in syria today is to unconditionally support the peace talks, lift the senseless sanctions and implement a massive programme of support for the reconstruction of infrastructure and housing. the other proposals are neither relevant to the current situation nor to the stabilization of the country, mr. belder. let us vote together for peace and reject another round of steps in the style of the traditional colonial powers.
the question posed by the blue card. i agree with a lot of what you said, the situation in syria has been really very tragic for many years. i just want to ask you, you talked about the need for a proper analysis of the situation in syria in light of the many hundreds of thousands of lives that the tragedy in syria has cost. after years of fighting, don't you think we should have the analysis and the concrete proposals for how to deal with this situation?
the eu council outlined an eu strategy for syria in april this year. the council said that the eu firmly believes that the conflict cannot be resolved militarily. similarly, un security council resolution 2254 favours a political solution. both these resolutions suffer from a lack of courage. security council resolution on the russian federation veto, the eu council fears being accused of radicalism. yes, ladies and gentlemen, let us not allow indecision, fear, failure to accept responsibility to become part of european foreign policy. the eu's relationship with syria is reminiscent of europe's helplessness during the kosovo crisis. it was not the union that was able to stop milosevic's ethnic cleansing of kosovo albanians. it was nato and the united states that stopped the genocide by bombing yugoslavia. it's like a repeating pattern. the eu has not yet been able to play a primary role in solving the syrian crisis. the united states and the coalition it leads have already found enough determination to militarily support the syrian kurdish ypg and ypj's fight against isis. the search for today's javier solana continues. maybe the eu will emerge and openly support the courageous kurdish resistance against isis.
i think we all want peace in syria, and that's why we welcome the eu having a strategy. the question remains how realistic the goals proclaimed in this strategy are, if much of syrian territory is still controlled by the islamic state and if assad and putin's army instead of jihadists massacres the moderate opposition. the eu strategy envisages the number one task, a political solution to the conflict. if this solution is to be realistic, then there must be a concerted action by all the major powers. that's why i reject russia's veto of a security council resolution that calls on the assad regime to cooperate with international investigators of the april chemical attack. ladies and gentlemen, do you think assad would be willing to negotiate if the u.s. hadn't been bombing assad's armed forces? i'm afraid assad would not be willing to negotiate even today. i appreciate the eu's focus on the future. mostly for humanitarian aid, but also for education. there are 1.5 million syrian children in turkey, jordan and lebanon, and they need education. so i'm glad that the eu is providing aid for the education of these children and thinking about the future of syria.
for the group gue/ngl in the eastern part of the maghreb and mashreq, the situation of all minorities, whether religious or ethnic, has been very difficult in recent years. most of these countries have been inhabited for over 8,000 years, and in every war, the population, rural or urban, has suffered greatly. yet, for centuries dozens of different religions and ethnic groups have thrived in symbiosis and interplay. in recent years, with the rise of radical islam, the situation of all minorities has deteriorated significantly. anyone who doesn't fit the ideals of radical movements like the islamic state can be murdered, tortured, raped or otherwise enslaved, according to its ruling officials. it's often a forced conversion. the largest of these endangered groups are the coptic christians. in some parts of egypt, the promotion of these ideas has been taken up by traditionally rebellious nomadic tribes, and this situation, along with the insecurity of life for christians and minority islamic sects, threatens the stability of the country's economy. we should therefore support the steps taken by the egyptian and other governments to counter this danger.
i believe the high representative hears our call for effective aid to the christians. christians, who are the most persecuted religious group, as we all testify here. the middle east is their home, and they don't want to leave, but they're being driven out, killed. yet they themselves have been here for 2,000 years. they are an educated and peaceful group of citizens. what can we do for them? in 2015, the bishops asked us to help them to receive them here in europe. the czech republic has symbolically accepted 90 iraqi christians, but it was really just a symbolic gesture. i think that there have been some specific proposals made here today, and i would ask mrs mogherini to do what has been said here. let's support the christians in the middle east. let's help them stay in their homes.
on thursday we will vote on a joint resolution on the gross violation of human rights by the regime of chechen president ramzan kadyrov against homosexuals in chechnya. it's a useful resolution that condemns the stalinist methods used by the current regime, including the building of concentration detention facilities for disadvantaged minorities. but i ask, ladies and gentlemen, why have we not paid attention for a long time to the situation in chechnya after the russian army brutally suppressed the chechens' efforts to gain independence? the czech republic's government-in-exile is preparing a conference in brussels this sunday to mark the 20th anniversary of the signing of the may 1997 peace treaty. this treaty, signed in the kremlin by president yeltsin and president mashadov, was brutally trampled underfoot by russia after president putin took office. the minister of foreign affairs of the chechen republic ichkeria aminat sajeva called this undeclared war against chechnya as brutal and shameful. this war has killed over a hundred thousand people. russia has destroyed chechnya's economy and infrastructure. the russian army, using bombing and artillery, has caused total destruction of chechen towns and villages. russia has violated every principle of international law, including the use of chemical weapons. and i ask again, ladies and gentlemen, why don't we reflect on all these facts?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i must say that as a fan of better regulation i read the report with some interest. while i am not an alde shadow, i can fully subscribe to it. i also endorse the recommendations that my distinguished colleague, karim, has put forward. to be honest, i do have doubts about the last one, which is to say the extension of the consultation period. it has pros and cons, and it is a question of personal preferences, but i would say that while one can envisage it, i can also see certain downsides. what i would like to underline is that in the report – and this is a well—known fact and i will be concrete by referring to paragraphs 7 and 8 – we talk about the justification of subsidiarity and proportionality being incomplete or, indeed, non—existent. at least that is the complaint of the member states. but there is also the well-known figure that the impact assessment board considers 32% of the impact assessments reviewed in 2014 on these issues to be unsatisfactory, and our rapporteur says that these rates have not improved. well, i must say that not only have they not improved, but down the line there has been no progress, and i think that every single impact assessment has to be thorough on this. we cannot speak of better regulation unless this figure is zero or close to zero. so this is one point i would like to underline. the second point is – and this is also mentioned in the report – that we rightly want to have greater involvement of the national parliaments. but, at the same time, i think that in 2014 only 15 chambers had utilised the potential. the rapporteur’s explanation is that this is maybe because of mandates reaching their end, but the fact is that we need also to place more emphasis and – let us say – pressure on the national parliaments. final remark: i agree with the green card, but i would love the european parliament also to have a green card in the future.
i consider the final version of the report to be a good outcome of the discussion in the committee on legal affairs and i shall vote in favour of its adoption. i believe that the principle of subsidiarity and the principle of proportionality should be the main means of ensuring effective public administration in the eu. their role is irreplaceable, but at the same time i believe that they are not the essential instrument through which we can increase citizens' confidence in european integration. subsidiarity is also associated with calls for the role of national parliaments to be strengthened. but this cannot be done at the cost of weakening the role of the ep. if we are calling for subsidiarity, we could also start with ourselves. the ep is also bound by the division of powers between the eu and the member states, but it sometimes debates issues that are not eu matters.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank you and congratulate the rapporteur, ms van nieuwenhuizen, for the report on fintech, which is both timely and comprehensive on the issues it raises. technological innovation on finance is advancing. in terms of expenditure, the financial sector is by far the largest it sector of our economy. an estimated one-fifth of all it expenditure globally takes place within the financial sector. the commission is looking to promote a thriving and globally competitive european financial sector as part of the digital single market. both individual consumers and firms stand to benefit from fintech opportunities, through a greater access to financial services, more choice and a more competitive landscape. when we look to the development of the capital markets union, we must look at how digitalisation can contribute to this goal. fintech affects all financial sectors and all its components, involving companies both large and small. i would like to highlight four areas that are reflected in your report and that we will also raise in our ongoing public consultation on fintech. first, fintech can be an important driver to expand access to financial services for both consumers and businesses. for providers of financial services it can facilitate access to new and broader customer bases. it can also be an important tool for financial inclusion, while we must not overlook those that are not digitally connected. it can increase efficiency and reduce operating costs – means of generation and distribution of services – and also in terms of meeting regulatory and compliance requirements. technological innovation can enhance the single market, overcoming obstacles such as location or distance, and enhancing competition by lowering barriers to entry. data integrity and security are also essential to ensure market confidence. the report notes that cybersecurity should be a top priority. the wannacry ransomware cyber-attack in recent days demonstrates why cybersecurity is so important. on this occasion the financial sector was not specifically targeted, but an innovative financial tool – in this case, bitcoin – was used as a conduit for the requested ransom. we must recognise that, aside from offering advantages and opportunities, technological innovations may also present new tools, enabling the use of our financial system for illicit purposes. this is why the commission proposed to include virtual currency exchanges and custodian wallet providers as obliged entities in the anti-money laundering directive. requiring these entities to identify their customers is an important step towards tackling the anonymous use of these instruments for illicit purposes. maintaining security is a constant objective and we must ensure that our efforts to preserve security go hand-in-hand with technological developments. the appearance of new services and technologies may raise questions about how to apply the regulatory framework in ways which permit benefits to be reaped, while at the same time ensuring that any use risks are appropriately mitigated. technology-enabled finance requires new skills, new expertise and, possibly, new approaches and attitudes, not only for firms but also for customers, regulators and supervisors. only if regulators and supervisors are familiar with those new technologies and business models can they identify both the risks and opportunities they present. when deciding on the appropriate response to the challenge of rapidly evolving digital technology we should avoid seeking to capture today’s technology in rules and regulations that may become obsolete tomorrow. a considered approach is called for and this is why we have set up a taskforce of experts drawn from different parts of the commission who are studying the digitalisation of finance attentively. our approach is guided by three overarching principles, which are also reflected in your report, namely: technological neutrality – the same activity should be subject to the same regulation irrespective of the technology used,regulations should not give preference to one technology over another; proportionality – regulations should reflect the business model size, significance, complexity and, ultimately, the risk; and integrity in terms of transparency, security or the use of data. these are just some of areas i would like to highlight from your report. in conclusion, we remain attentive to developments, identifying actions which promote and encourage innovation in financial services and ensuring that europe remains an attractive and dynamic environment for financial services.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – mr president, i can only agree. fintech is having a transformative impact on how we live and work. fintech is all about consumer benefits and empowerment. in fact, consumers are the driving force behind the rise of fintechs, thanks to the increased accessibility, cost reductions and transparency. at the same time, for businesses, fin tech means the benefits of efficiency gains, better data management and tailored services for each client. even governments are able to take advantage of alternative funding pathways to grant funding support for cultural institutions and other civil projects. in total, this is good for everyone – consumers, citizens and businesses alike. but for all this to work, consumers need confidence and trust in this digital revolution. we need a solid cyber security system to be put in place, along with safeguards and effective measures against potential risks and the complex challenges of the financial world.
i agree, of course, that the priority of today's europe is brexit and resolving the issues, but i think we have other challenges, that we face other priorities. it's important to realize that terrorism has not disappeared from our lives, that it's still with us. we also need to dust off the four freedoms that are the foundation pillar of the eu. to see if they are actually being observed in all areas. i think one of the fundamental challenges is the challenge of common security, perhaps common defence for the future. borders that are still hollow, and migration that is pushing our external border. last but not least, our common challenge is also to partner with countries in our neighbourhood.
madam president, dear colleagues, let me say that i support and appreciate the subjects on the agenda of the g7 meeting as they were presented by the council and committee. these are well-chosen topics that are reflecting the concerns of citizens and challenges ahead, but the most important subject is actually in the title of the g7 meeting – the issue of trust; an issue of future beneficial and sincere cooperation among the leading economic countries of the world and also about leading democracies. i hope that the partly new composition of g7 leaders will make a clear statement on this direction and will also commit themselves personally to going forward in the route of sincere cooperation and respect for the most important values. our countries and the eu should play the leading role, because these are the values that we are representing, and we should convince the others.
i must say that i am disturbed by the fact that for several weeks now the internal affairs of one of the central european countries have been discussed here. it's not just hungary that's been grilled here repeatedly. poland is also a member of the eu, and the next time the eu meets in brussels it will be the czech republic, where the freedom of the media in the czech republic, which is certainly not threatened in my country, will be discussed. i cannot help feeling that this is not a concern for freedom and democracy in the central european countries, but an attempt to deprive us of a little oxygen for not always and not in everything listening. for example, we opposed the quota system for the redistribution of refugees and we also have our own ideas about some aspects of european integration. if so, i assure you that these methods will be counterproductive and that the eu will not make any good publicity in our countries. thank you, and i voted against this resolution, of course.
mr president, first of all let me say that i was surprised by this topic – by the organisation [of the debate] but not by the result. there is a lot of cheap politicking, especially on this side of the chamber, and not so much understanding or knowledge. let me draw from my experience of working in the central bank for many years. first of all, central banking underwent a huge change at the end of the last century, going from secretive, non-transparent and politically influenced entities into highly professional bodies serving clear goals. goals are set by the law as well as by instruments, targets and accountability principles. the establishment of the ecb, together with the creation of the euro, learned from all of this experience and benefited from best practice. that is why my view is very close to the one expressed by the council and the commission. the debate today is not so much about the ecb’s position, but about monetary policy in the last few years; that should be understood. but while the legislator has given the central bank the targets, instruments and responsibility, we should not be surprised if they use it. it was an incredibly complicated time. government fiscal policy did not support a way to get economies out of the crisis and i believe that central banks have done a great job, not only the ecb, but also the others. so, instead of blaming and criticising – especially personally – some people at the ecb, we should appreciate what they did, for the way our economy has got out of the crisis, for the jobs they saved, actually improving the situation in europe.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, seamless access around the european union to online content services is important for the smooth functioning of the internal market and for the effective application of the principle of free movement of persons and services. it is also important for many of us to fully enjoy our time with family and away from work. with the adoption of this regulation, we are helping to ensure people moving through europe for leisure, business or learning are not blocked from their legally purchased content and, in many cases, access to their own language and culture. the alde group promised all voters two major items during the european elections: an end to roaming and an end to geo—blocking. with this vote – the vote on the end of geo—blocking of legally owned content – we show that we keep our promises. we have allowed our citizens to take their internet everywhere with them in europe and after today we will allow them to take their digital content too. we pay for this content and no—one should tell us where we can and cannot access it. never again will you miss your favourite tv or radio shows just because you are travelling in europe.
the question posed by the blue card. i listened very carefully to your speech. i understand that we've made a small step in the area of online services, but if we were to go into other areas of copyright, it would be somewhat at odds with the principle of territoriality that is inherent to this area of law. so can you give us any specific legal or other instrument that would allow us to not violate this principle and at the same time accommodate the obviously transgressive tendencies that you have?
i would like to begin by thanking my colleagues on the committee on legal affairs who have contributed to this proposal, in particular mr cavad. the introduction of portability is an important step forward in the development of the digital single market. eu citizens have a legitimate expectation that they will be able to use the services they pay for even when they are exercising their rights of free movement within the eu. in this way, portability is not only a response to technological developments, but also a response to the needs of european citizens, based on the increasing mobility between member states. it is precisely at a time when every practical example of the benefits of union cooperation is needed that we should take citizens' expectations in these other areas very seriously and try to meet them. i see the successful introduction of portability as a very good thing, but it is only the first step in a wider effort to reform copyright law to reflect the needs of the 21st century and to harness the potential of the digital single market.
in the name of the group, question "carton bleu". don't you think that criticizing the border lines today and saying that people have to wait a little bit, a little bit populist? after we have introduced a measure, we must criticize it immediately and not wait for its effects and its implementation. was it not you who criticized us for not guarding the eu's external border after the attacks in france? please answer.
i have long been an advocate of tighter controls at the eu's external borders. especially on those borders that foreign fighters may come through returning from wars in syria, for example. they are undoubtedly a major threat to eu security and need to be stopped. where else but at the very borders of the eu? this border control must be done intelligently. i therefore have great hope in the regulation adopted a month ago. i think, as does mrs hohlmeier, that we must give this regulation some time to take effect. i think we need to do a lot more work with sis and interpol databases, not just on entry but also on exit from the schengen area. each state must exercise diligent and effective controls to ensure that persons entering the eu do not pose a threat to public administration, internal security and public health. although these checks, ladies and gentlemen, may present some problems with the flow of traffic at the borders and the associated inconvenience for commuters, as for example between croatia and slovenia, i consider these stricter checks to be a very important instrument to ensure the security of the eu. that should be, ladies and gentlemen, always the first priority.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank members for this interesting debate. i listened to them very carefully. security is one of the major concerns of europe’s citizens. with a reinforcement of checks against relevant databases the eu has yet another tool to better secure the external borders and strengthen control over who enters and leaves the european union. it is already clear that the new rules have led to an increased number of hits in the schengen information system. even if they mostly concerned documents or objects, thanks to the new rules, the eu is better equipped to deal with terrorist threats. there is also the possibility of a derogation from the principle of systematic checks, in justified cases, to strike the right balance between security needs and freedom of movement. the commission is well aware of the challenges related to the initial phase of implementing the new rules and we are working with the national authorities of the member states concerned to offer the best solutions in line with eu law.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, first of all, i wish to apologise for the fact that commissioner bulc cannot be here this evening with you. as you know, she has had to return to brussels for a very important meeting relating to the issue of international aviation safety, with which i am sure all of you are very familiar. i can assure you that she fully appreciates the importance of the issue of road transport and would like to have been able to be here. on her behalf, i want to thank you for the invitation to participate in this preliminary debate on the commission’s forthcoming proposals on road transport. we plan to adopt a series of road initiatives on 31 may as part of a larger mobility package. i am very pleased to say that the motion for a resolution on road transport in the european union, which was tabled by the committee on transport and tourism and which will be voted in plenary tomorrow, is an important contribution to the conclusion of these proposals. road initiatives will contribute to the three main priorities highlighted in your draft resolution. firstly, in relation to environmental sustainability. road charging is one of the most prominent measures to implement the ‘user and polluter pays’ principles, which are guiding principles of the commission to make road transport clean and sustainable. clear price signals are essential to encourage the use of infrastructure in an efficient manner, as well as the use of clean vehicles. among the main measures we are contemplating is an extension of the scope of the current legislation by including passenger cars, vans and buses. these vehicles are responsible for the lion’s share of pollutants and co2 emissions as well as congestion on our roads. adequate road charging can provide a decisive contribution to addressing them. of course, member states will remain free to decide whether access to any specific infrastructure must be charged for or not, but it should not be ignored that distance-based charging has clear advantages. these relate to fairness and efficiency. distance-based charging ensures that users pay for their actual use of infrastructure, with account being taken of the relative share in pollution emitted. distance-based charging is also a precondition for external cost charging, and this is what is requested by the motion for a resolution on road transport in the european union. to this end, external cost charging needs to be facilitated, made simpler and made more attractive for our member states. secondly, in relation to technological innovation and digitalisation: for efficient road charging, europe needs interoperability of national systems. currently, there are many different, independent charging systems in the union, which are complicating cross-border transport. the commission wants to ensure that new service providers who wish to provide pan-eu services will be able to enter established markets and provide one obe, one contract and one invoice to users. similarly, effective enforcement of eu transport is crucial. at times when enforcement capacities in member states are being reduced, it is especially important to have modern and efficient tools available for the controls in respect of our rules. it is also essential to improve further the cooperation between the public authorities of member states. one good example is the optimisation of the european register for road undertakings and an it tool which allows exchanging information between member states. we also need to make better use of tachographs as well as e-documents to improve enforcement. thirdly, in relation with a fairer and deeper internal market: the road initiatives should contribute very significantly to the proper functioning of the road transport market. status quo is clearly not an option. we are encouraged by the consensus emerging around this idea. the commission will aim at finding truly european solutions which would combine the necessary protection of workers and at the very same time avoid the fragmentation of the internal market. one of the starting points is to fight letter-box companies. transport undertakings could fulfil the conditions of a genuine establishment in a given member state and carry out a genuine economic activity in that member state. solving this issue will contribute significantly to diminish illegal cabotage and periods when drivers are away from home. in relation to posting: commissioner bulc wants to be very clear. one thing is that drivers operating abroad are often in a posted situation. one cannot simply ignore the fact that road transport is by definition a highly mobile activity which requires sector-specific rules. in this context, three objectives should be borne in mind. firstly, reducing administrative burdens for road hauliers, which in certain member states are disproportionate. secondly, making sure that the more efficient tools available in the sectors, such as the tachograph, are used to ensure the enforcement of the rules. and thirdly, to clarify the circumstances in which national minimum wages should apply. another serious issue is the international nomadism of drivers. a right balance is necessary between flexibility for drivers and operators to plan international journeys on the one hand, and sufficient guarantees that enable drivers to return home on a regular basis and to have access to adequate accommodation when taking weekly rests away from home. in this context, the solution cannot be shorter rests and longer driving times. on the contrary, drivers’ working conditions and road safety should be improved rather than compromised. finally madam president, i would like to highlight one additional issue which i already referred to, which is the simplification of the rule on cabotage. almost all stakeholders have told us that the current rules are too difficult to enforce and that there is a lot of illegal cabotage. these concerns are well understood, and we agree that enforcement is key in this area as well. adapting the cabotage rules to this end does not, however, mean opening or closing national freight transport markets. honourable members, i have briefly outlined some of the essential considerations underpinning the preparation of the commission’s road initiatives. i look forward to discussing the details of our forthcoming proposals when they are adopted. however, i would like to urge everyone to keep in mind the actual problems on the ground faced by our transport operators. these problems are substantial and they are real. let us focus on the facts and try to avoid heated discussions and be prepared to enter a constructive debate. this is what commissioner bulc is certainly seeking.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first of all i am glad that finally we are able to debate, and tomorrow vote on, a resolution which was an alde initiative and which we passed in the committee on transport back in february. it is difficult to comprehend why we didn’t manage to tackle it early on here in the plenary and send out the clear message we wanted to send. secondly, i must say that what the commissioner presented, seems to be a balanced approach, but of course the nitty-gritty is in the details. we’ll have to see when we see it on 31 may, and then later on also in autumn. but my first point would be that this is maybe the most important legislation, certainly in the transport sector, that we will be dealing with until the end of this mandate. this is about whether we will be enhancing and fostering the single market or not. and i think that this is an absolute need: to be able to combine on the one hand an effort in terms of building that market, while also, of course, confronting all the practices which are – either from a social, environmental or any other point of view – to the detriment of the internal market. so that is one point i would like to highlight. the second is that i very much hope we will manage to approve the package well in time, under this mandate, at least to the largest possible extent, so that we will make it impossible for individual member states to be coming in all the time with national legislation, with different measures, which in fact do lead to fragmentation of the internal market. that is what i understand this package to be, and this is how we should see it and we should maintain it as a package. my final remark to the commissioner is that i understand that the commission has already finalised its review of the german legislation on the road toll (maut) and i understand that it will not be taking steps. if that is the case, i would like to remind you that there is a european parliament resolution on the issue to which parliament expects a response.
we're talking about road transport, and i'll tell you one simple thing that the eu should do that would benefit all - hauliers, drivers and consumers. the road traffic act restricts what's called cabotage. it specifically prohibits loading additional goods during transport, so for example, if a truck is going from the czech republic to say hamburg, germany, and has room in the space, it cannot load additional goods in dresden, for example, because the eu prohibits it. as a result, there are many unnecessary trucks on european roads with unused space. it's called deadweight loss, and a quarter of the trucks that drive through europe are empty. reversing this ban would be good for everyone. you want less traffic, unclog the cabotage. you want lower rates on transportation services, unleash the cabotage. you want more economical farming and less spent diesel, you can unload the cabotage. you want to reduce co2, if you're worried about global warming, you can unplug.
in writing. the situation in the single european road transport market is far from uniform. the introduction of various measures at national level and the different interpretation of existing legislation in force lead to its fragmentation. one of the key themes of the forthcoming road transport initiative will be the improvement of the social conditions of workers. i think it is important that the commission presents a proposal in the road package which ensures that the rules are effectively enforced and that the rules are clear and applied in the member states. the aim should be to prevent circumvention by those carriers who take advantage of various loopholes in the existing legislation in force, for example by setting up letterbox companies on a purposive basis. i believe that the commission's proposals will improve the working conditions of professional drivers and thus prevent further outflow.
the international atmosphere is not very favorable to free trade. there's a lot of protectionism in free trade agreements, and there's even conspiracy theories that corporations are behind it and that ordinary people don't get anything out of it. that is why we need to look for positive examples. this agreement is certainly one of the positive examples. i think it's undeniable that it helped to increase trade between the european union and korea. it's about a half-size increase, a record high in terms of trade, and while the deal obviously needs some improvement, i think we have to sell it as a definite success. in any case, it will open the way to further trade agreements, especially now that the european court of justice has made things a little more complicated for us with its decision yesterday on the bilateral agreement with singapore. setting up another trade deal won't be so easy. so please, let's sell this as a positive example.
the question posed by the blue card. i would ask, and i agree with you, that technical assistance is important for drawing on cohesion funds. do you realise that the differences between regions would be much greater if cohesion policy had not been in place? so the differences that you've talked about would be much more pronounced between regions and even within some states.
i would like to say that cohesion policy in general should be the backbone of eu policy. it is precisely because it expresses the principle of solidarity, i.e. reducing disparities, that it is a crucial key eu policy. it must not be weakened by other instruments or by neoliberal theories that cohesion policy is useless. as regards technical assistance, i would like to say that the report rightly points out that those countries which have problems in drawing on technical assistance are also drawing on it badly. this should certainly be considered by the authorities of the member states which are primarily responsible for the drawdown. as regards the growth of the administration, it must be admitted that the growth of the administration in cohesion policy over the last few years has been incredible and is also a product of the level of the european institutions.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 162)
in writing. financial instruments in the form of loans, guarantees, micro-credit and private and venture capital have become an integral part of the european union's regional policy. while in the 2007-2013 programming period they represented only 6% of the regional policy budget, in the 2014-2020 period their proportion is already 12%. their need is indisputable. but equally indisputable is the need for grants. although there are many opponents of direct funding from the european union budget, which lacks multiplier effects and therefore a wider scope, it is not possible to say that financial instruments can replace grants. these are funds that are vital to the so-called smaller beneficiaries. projects in the fields of education, social affairs and employment promotion in particular rely on the grant policy of the european budget. we cannot therefore afford to support large projects and beneficiaries for which other financial mechanisms are more appropriate at their expense. the next few months and years are a good opportunity to reflect on cohesion policy as the european union's largest investment instrument. we should therefore seek to improve synergies between european budgetary instruments, including the very topical european fund for strategic investments, and in particular to improve the advisory support in the form of technical assistance which lagged in the previous programming period and to eliminate the time delays we are currently experiencing.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on zambia. as i have said already, we are behind schedule as this house does not always have the best of discipline before the vote. i would like to keep to the schedule and be on time so that we are able to hear the closing remarks at the end of the debate on the urgent issues.
i would like to thank the authors of this resolution in particular, because it brings to our attention the problem of a poor country where we thought some progress had already been made. as it turns out, this progress is very fragile, and the arrest of the opposition leader is something that could only happen on the basis of irrefutable evidence. the case itself raises great embarrassment, raises great questions. torturing the colleagues of an arrested opposition leader, i think is completely unacceptable. zambia will now face the test of its justice system, whether it too has not been pressured by the state power, whether it is truly independent and impartial. it is in our vital interest to monitor this process to see whether it fulfils all the attributes of a fair process and whether zambia has indeed deviated from the progress that has been made and slipped back into the old ways.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i would like to thank members for this timely debate on the developments in zambia, which deserve our attention. the european union values highly its partnership with zambia. we are proud of our significant contribution to that country’s development and are firmly committed to remaining a key partner. the european union is also aware of the various challenges the country is facing and supports its ambitious economic and governance reform agenda. you may recall the eu’s involvement, through the deployment of an eu election observation mission, led by the honourable member cécile kyenge, who has just taken the floor. we are very grateful for the work she has done. we are advocating implementation of the mission’s recommendations, in particular in response to its concerns relating to freedom of expression and assembly. zambia has traditionally been a peaceful and democratic nation in a neighbourhood so often marked by political instability and human rights violations. it is therefore of even greater concern that zambia’s democratic trajectory is being questioned, particularly since the highly—contested elections in august 2016, which revealed the polarised nature of the country. the arrest of the opposition leader, hakainde hichilema, on 11 april resulted in increased political tensions, to which the european union was quick to respond by calling on all parties to refrain from any action or rhetoric likely to aggravate the situation. the european union, in close coordination with the member states, will further convey a strong message to both the government and the opposition to play a constructive role and to engage in a dialogue to restore trust in support of an inclusive political environment. regarding the ongoing proceedings against mr hichilema, the european union calls upon the government of zambia to ensure transparency, independence of the judiciary and the right to a fair trial and due process, according to international human rights law. making zambia’s institutions accountable and inclusive is vital for upholding its democratic credentials and political stability. the european union will continue to engage with our zambian partners through all political and diplomatic means, at all levels, calling upon the wisdom and sense of responsibility of all parties to avoid further reputational damage to zambia’s strong democratic traditions.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held at the end of the debates. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on ethiopia, notably the case of dr merera gudina.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, of course, the european union watches with great concern the difficult domestic situation in ethiopia and follows closely reports of human rights violations. ethiopia faces multiple challenges and a deteriorating humanitarian situation, including several droughts and a cholera outbreak, but also persisting pockets of violence throughout the country. the european union is aware of the difficult situation that the oromo people’s congress and other key opposition parties face and has repeatedly highlighted these concerns to the government. the eu delegation in ethiopia closely follows the case of dr merera. they attend his trials and have regular contact with his lawyers. the delegation equally monitors trials of other opposition leaders detained and has regular contacts with their remaining leadership. the situation has further deteriorated under the state of emergency, and the stability of the country and of the wider region remains at serious risk. ethiopia is an important partner, and the situation warrants the eu’s close attention. the eu-ethiopia strategic engagement is the right framework to address and follow issues of concern. the visit of high representative mrs mogherini to addis ababa in march was an opportunity to discuss political developments with the prime minister, emphasising the imperative to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms under the state of emergency as well as for a credible political dialogue with the opposition. she reiterated him again in the margins of the somalia conference in london, and he was grateful for the eu’s continuous engagement. it is important to note that the first dialogue at the eu-ethiopia strategic engagement was the governance and human rights sectoral dialogue. it was formally launched in the presence of the eu special representative for human rights, stavros lambrinidis, during his visit to addis ababa from 4 to 6 april. topics discussed included due process of law and detention conditions; youth empowerment and children’s rights, including female genital mutilation; and migrants’ rights. we are now working on concrete follow-up, in particular on the strengthening of independent civil society, the establishment of a strong political dialogue, and the improvement of conditions in detention centres. since this visit, the ethiopian human rights commission has reported to the parliament on its findings on the violence that led to the current state of emergency. we welcomed the recommendation that security personnel responsible for the excessive use of force should be held accountable. we have encouraged the ethiopian human rights commission to work with the independent civil society organisations and human rights defenders and to publicly share all of their reports. we also welcome the recent visit of un high commissioner for human rights, mr al hussein, to the country and strongly encourage ethiopia to cooperate with un special procedures. the eu continues to stress the need to address guidance of the population and encourage tangible changes to laws and practices to ensure more outlets for citizens to express their views and concerns freely and peacefully, including through independent media, political parties and civil society. the arrest of senior leaders of the opposition such as dr merera is detrimental to a process of reconciliation and dialogue. we have called for the release of the leaders of the opposition and supported calls for independent investigations into all acts of violence. the european union stands ready to work together in addressing these issues. given the enormous task that the country is facing in terms of humanitarian challenges and its key role in issues of common concerns – regional peace and security, migration, climate change – we must be ready to support them to foster democracy and prosperity and we think that one cannot exist without the other.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held at the end of the debates. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on south sudan.
author. i would like to begin by thanking all the political groups. it is not very often in this chamber that the political groups really agree unanimously on this rather serious and rather important text. i think it's important to seek unity. it's important to find consistency with the regime in south sudan. what is happening in sudan is obviously a complete disaster, 40 percent of the people don't have access to food every day. many of the women mentioned by my forewords have been raped. many children are used as child soldiers. we cannot sit by and watch what is happening in south sudan with impunity. and that's why we want to call on all the governments of the eu, and especially the governments of the countries that have had interests there in the past, to really start doing something about this situation. we cannot just stand by and watch a humanitarian catastrophe and the suffering of so many people. it's absolutely outrageous that we can't actually guarantee the safety of humanitarian workers. a number of aid workers have been killed or kidnapped in recent months. it is therefore necessary to call again on the member states and other states of the democratic community to work for the restoration of law and order in sudan. that at least some elements of the un international covenant on human rights are respected. otherwise, the generations that bear the consequences will have a terrible experience, and it will be a terrible experience to know that we are also responsible for this.
the situation in south sudan is a real challenge for the eu. the people of south sudan are fighting for survival, even if the exercise of basic human rights must not be ignored. the numbers vary, but there are millions of them, and most of them are children. these people are seeking refuge in six neighboring countries, where we are witnessing the fastest growing refugee crisis in the world. according to the unhcr, $1.4 billion is needed to provide basic assistance to these refugees by the end of 2017. the eu must therefore use its influence to try to achieve a political solution to the conflict in south sudan through international diplomacy and provide support to neighbouring countries to prevent the situation in the region from deteriorating.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i will start with a personal remark because, during the last parliamentary term, i discussed the situation in south sudan on many occasions with a number of you from the committee on development and the committee on foreign affairs. now, on behalf of vice-president / high representative mogherini, i would like to tell you how sorry i am to see that, after our many years of discussing this same issue here, the situation is getting worse instead of improving. the situation is on the verge of catastrophe. the country is consumed by anarchy and disorder, with atrocious acts of violence commonplace. civilians are being deliberately and systematically attacked, often with an ethnic intent, by a range of armed opposition groups, and notably in large offensives by the sudan people’s liberation army. a hundred people are dying each month and some 1.8 million refugees have fled to neighbouring countries, while almost 2 million persons are internally displaced. famine has been declared in parts of the country. the european union is doing everything possible to encourage peace. it undertakes ongoing political dialogue with the transitional government to urge implementation of the 2015 peace agreement. we are fully engaged with regional efforts, through the african union and the intergovernmental authority on development, to end the conflict. the european union has provided almost eur 0.5 billion in humanitarian assistance to south sudan since the conflict started in december 2013. our support to the region has been increased to address a massive influx of refugees. the european union has imposed an arms embargo against south sudan and is lobbying for the un security council to follow it. the european union is appalled at the gross violation of human rights and international humanitarian law perpetrated by all parties with complete impunity. it has encouraged the african union to establish a ‘hybrid court’ for south sudan, as envisaged in the peace agreement, as soon as possible. let me reiterate today our messages to all parties. there can be no military solution. all parties must observe the ceasefire in full. the united nations peacekeeping mission in south sudan must be allowed to exercise its mandate without restriction, so all parties must allow unfettered humanitarian access to those in need, and attacks on aid workers must stop. the national dialogue launched by president kiir must be transformed into an inclusive political process, truly open to all parties, which is deemed credible by the south sudanese people. people’s lives – mainly the lives of south sudanese people – hang in the balance, threatened by violence, famine and destitution. the european union will continue to deploy all instruments available – political pressure, sanctions, development assistance, international justice – with a view to encouraging the parties to replace conflict with dialogue. thank you for your attention. i look forward to good news.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 162)
i supported this proposal, which aims to make it a binding obligation for all member states to harmonise consumers' access to online services for which they have paid in their home country. transferability should therefore be an inalienable consumer right, without prejudice to the principle of territoriality. this legislation will be able to be put into practice if the concepts associated with it are clearly defined, such as member state, residence of the consumer, temporary presence in another state. i do not think that this temporary presence should be limited to a specific number of days or weeks, because that restriction actually limits the purpose of this regulation. in other words, to give all consumers the opportunity to travel across the eu while retaining legally acquired access to online content services. so here is my view, and thank you for approving the report.
i supported this own-initiative report on the implementation of the eu-republic of korea free trade agreement. the balance sheet so far confirms that the trade agreement is very mutually beneficial. in terms of goods, south korea is the 9th largest export destination for eu member states, while the eu is the 3rd largest export market for south korea. i therefore welcome the fact that almost all customs barriers have been successfully removed between the eu and south korea. thanks to this agreement, increased exports to the eu and korean investments, 100,000 new jobs have been created in the eu. however, the report also notes that on the korean side, measures of a protectionist nature introducing non-tariff barriers have begun to emerge. for example, these are new technical standards for machinery imported from the eu and the commission needs to monitor this.
let me explain why i didn't endorse the road transport resolution. the resolution contains a number of suggestions, including an emphasis on new technologies and economic models. self-driving cars, carsharing are the future of road transport and the european commission needs to set the right regulatory framework for their development. but in the end, i did not support the resolution, and i'll explain why. because i reject some of the proposals and pressure from the old member states to apply their wage policy to drivers from other member states, beyond the minimum standards. these actions threaten the free movement of goods and services across the european market. further regulation of working and other conditions also prevents smes from accessing the market, which is in direct contradiction with the objectives declared in some points. lastly, i doubt the usefulness of this resolution shortly before the commission presents a comprehensive road transport package.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the major interpellation (rule 130b) by dubravka šuica, franc bogovič, daniel buda, pál csáky, andor deli, györgy hölvényi, marijana petir, ivan štefanec, patricija šulin, alojz peterle, marian-jean marinescu, miroslav mikolášik, ivana maletić, milan zver, tomáš zdechovský, inese vaidere, traian ungureanu, željana zovko, eduard kukan, krišjānis kariņš, ivica tolić, romana tomc, dariusz rosati, artis pabriks, adam szejnfeld, renate sommer, pavel svoboda, michaela šojdrová, iuliu winkler, zigmantas balčytis, nicola caputo, doru-claudian frunzulică, georgi pirinski, monika smolková, olga sehnalová, biljana borzan, tonino picula, anna elżbieta fotyga, ruža tomašić, monica macovei, jana žitňanská, georgios epitideios, ivan jakovčić, ivo vajgl, merja kyllönen and julia pitera (o-000019/17 - b8-0220/2017) (2017/2676(rsp)).
i would like to thank the commissioner for her comments, which, of course, only confirmed the validity of our concerns and our initiative. the different composition of branded products in different eu countries is difficult to legislate, as she herself has said. if the information on the packaging corresponds to the composition of the product, the product is safe, but it is difficult for an individual consumer to judge that he would buy a product in a neighbouring country containing a different type of sugar, more or less fat, more or less cocoa, etc. at the same price. the national control authorities are not able to compare or even to affect the difference between goods of the same brand and those of different composition in other countries. i think that is why the studies that have been mentioned here are being carried out in different countries, but they clearly show that the composition of the product is different, that the quality of the product is different. i think that the commission should be more active in the context of the common market and i think that the proposal by my polish colleague for a pilot project is appropriate.
this is not the first time that we have discussed this subject here in the ep, but unfortunately there has been no change, no correction. however, even according to the latest surveys, it is clear that products of different quality and composition are sold under the same brand on the single market. i think it is unacceptable that we should continue to tolerate a situation where a czech consumer is offered a product that is of better quality and many times more affordable in a neighbouring country. in my view, this is a clear deception of the consumer and therefore action is necessary. act at member state level, but also at eu level. i am curious to see how you assess the information you currently require from the member states. but i think we also need to have a comprehensive comparative analysis that clearly shows the extent of these practices and highlights the most critical cases. we need to address the problems by involving consumer organisations, producers, traders, but the result should be concrete action, concrete steps, whether it's better enforcement of existing legislation or new legislation.
i want to say "excellent". today's debate is proof that dual quality is finally becoming a political issue in the ep as well. unfortunately, this was not the case before, and as mentioned by our colleague biljana borzanova, we were often left alone in a number of activities. the last time we proposed, for example, to restrict dual-qualification as a discriminatory practice in the geo-blocking regulation. i recall the 2013 parliament resolution and the approval of my request for a representative survey by the european commission on dual quality and evaluation of the legislation in force. it's still not filled. the imco committee is now meeting this requirement and has approved our joint pilot project which allows such extensive research into food and non-food goods. the dual quality needs to be addressed from the perspective of the eu internal market. in my opinion, this is an unfair commercial practice and discrimination against consumers. it is not just food, but also non-food goods. i would very much like to see the conclusions of today's debate translated into concrete proposals for solutions.
member of the commission. – mr president, dear members, as you mentioned during this very interesting debate for me, there are concrete elements pointing to objective composition differences and as qualitative differences in products sold under the same brand and similar packaging in various countries across europe. yes, mr jakovčić and all my colleagues, i am very sensitive as a person when it comes to two standards, two qualities, two speeds and so on. it is very important to say that, from my point of view, i do not consider it acceptable that identically-branded products would be deliberately advertised and sold as being the same in different member states but in fact with a lower quality in one country or another. it is not only about our health but that of our children and next generations. in such a scenario, i think people will rightly feel treated as second-class citizens by industry and perceive that there is no benefit from the single market for them. this said, i must repeat that the companies are not prevented from differentiated products within the eu legislation to better adapt them to the local taste and other conditions – including local market environment – such as competition pressures. as i said in my introductory speech, there is an on-going debate and a process of collecting evidence. this debate will raise awareness, i hope, including for our debate for the benefit of the eu citizens. however, the eu legislation is clear: a product marketed as being the same in several member states when in fact it presents significant differences in certain countries may be considered as unfairly marketed under consumer protection legislation. thank you very much for this debate, i will pass the word to my colleague in charge of this issue. i am looking forward to the discussion at the high-level forum on 20 june which i hope will surely also follow up to the debate held here today.
commissioner, thank you, and as has been said, it is very good that parliament held this debate today with the commission, as it has become an issue of political attention in this house. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, today’s mobility package is a major milestone, one which is very much needed for the modernisation of our economy and for making mobility in europe fit for the future. this package was not developed in a vacuum. it is the result of a long process of discussion both within the commission and outside. i would like particularly to welcome the work of the european parliament and to thank you for your great involvement in this topic. i am referring particularly to the resolution on road transport in the european union. i think it is particularly important to underline that this package affects many policy areas – and, together with vice-president jyrki katainen, we have made sure that all aspects are well covered: first of all, transport, but also industry, climate change and energy, air pollution, urban policy, digital market policies, and employment and skills. i would therefore like to thank, in particular, the conference of committee chairs, which invited me two weeks ago to discuss these cross-cutting links. that discussion and our exchanges were instrumental in crystallising the final proposal. i would like to use this opportunity to thank all the commissioners for their contributions to this package over the last month, especially commissioner bulc, who will talk to you in a second, but also commissioners thyssen and arias cañete with whom we have been working very hard to deliver this package. why is this package so important? my colleagues call it a ‘quadro-win’ – which means four wins – for consumers, for industry, for workers and, of course, for our planet. consumers should benefit inasmuch as europeans are pioneers in adopting new technologies and they have high expectations from a new, cleaner, connected economy, and especially from smart mobility.secondly, our industry: we must make sure that european companies remain world class, and today’s package creates the opportunity for europe’s transport industry to renovate, innovate and rejuvenate. europe’s ambition must be that our transport and mobility sector remain world leaders, with world-class logistics, word-class infrastructure and, of course, world-class cars made in europe, with world-class jobs and working conditions. we cannot afford a european ‘kodak moment’, where we fail to embrace new technologies in time. thirdly, workers: we are improving drivers’ working conditions and we want to make sure that our transport and automotive industries continue to create quality jobs and growth in europe. finally, the fourth winner of today’s package is climate, with air quality and innovation. road transport has a major role to play. it represents 20% of our entire co2 emissions here in europe, and we have to remember that three times more people die from nitrous oxide and other forms of air pollution than from road accidents. our prediction is that mobility is going to increase substantially by 2050. fortunately, transport is also one of the sectors that is seeing the most exciting technological breakthroughs. i am convinced that we can and will grow the transport industry while, at the same time, reducing our co2 emissions. in conclusion, this mobility package puts us on the right track, indeed the fast track. we had already delivered about 90% of the energy union legislation by the end of last year. with today’s package and with the final mobility part, which we will present later this year and in early 2018, the commission will have delivered 100% of the energy union proposals. concerning the news from the usa, i would like to assure you that we, as europe, will continue on our path. we will continue to assume the leadership in the fight against climate change, and i am sure that the leaders of our three institutions will issue an appropriate statement in this regard. i very much looking forward to our discussion but i will first give the floor to commissioner bulc, once again thanking her for her enormous work, her great dedication and the excellent results which we can present to you today.
member of the commission. – mr president, it is a great privilege and pleasure for me, together with my colleague vice-president maroš šefčovič, to present to you the mobility package adopted by the commission today. this house has, on several occasions, called on the commission to address the challenges faced by the road sector. earlier this month you adopted a resolution to that effect. thank you very much for your clear messages and support. over the past two years, the commission has been very broadly and inclusively consulting all stakeholders on all the major issues that represent a challenge for the road sector in the eu. so what you have on the table today are carefully thought-out and balanced proposals. they address a broad range of issues. let me point out three of the most important ones: first, fairer and more competitive mobility; second, cleaner and more sustainable mobility; and, third, connected mobility. i will address them quickly, one by one. with regard to fair and competitive mobility, since the very beginning of this commission’s term of office, a fairer and deeper internal market has been at the heart of our agenda. president juncker has also repeatedly underlined that there is no place for social dumping in the european union. in this context, the mobility package will provide a truly european solution, which includes the necessary protection of workers and, at the same time, aims to prevent fragmentation of the internal market. one prominent and much awaited measure is the fight against letterbox companies, for which there is absolutely no place in the union. i think everyone agrees that this is becoming a real problem. we must make sure that transport undertakings are established where they manage their business, and that national authorities are equipped to detect fraud. so these are the two elements we are stressing. another important issue which we are addressing relates to cabotage. almost all stakeholders have said that the current rules are too difficult to enforce. the commission has therefore decided to simplify those rules and to base them exclusively on time. very importantly, the new rules will neither open nor close the cabotage market, but they will provide more flexibility for operators, while also facilitating controllers in doing their job. we propose to increase the controls and make them more targeted at the same time. today the commission is also addressing the phenomenon of nomadic drivers. we propose to give drivers the possibility of returning home on a regular basis, at least every three weeks. drivers must also be offered adequate accommodation when taking weekly rests away from home. let me be clear that the commission proposal does not require more or longer driving times, or fewer or shorter rest periods. on the question of the application of the posting of workers directive to the road haulage sector, the commission has always argued that the rules on the posting of workers should apply to road transport. the fact that workers are highly mobile is not a reason to deprive them of the benefits of eu legislation. having said that, there is a need for sector-specific rules. we propose to reduce the administration burden for road hauliers and, as a matter of proportionality, to establish that national rules on remuneration apply to international services after three days of accumulated time in one member state. clean and sustainable mobility is the next topic. in line with the european energy union, and to meet the commitments we made in paris, transport has to contribute by reducing its very high emissions of co2 and pollutants. we therefore propose to adopt our common road charging principle to encourage the use of infrastructure in a more efficient manner, and to reward the use of cleaner vehicles. very importantly, the commission is proposing to bring passenger cars, vans and buses within the scope of the eu legislation on road charging. these vehicles are responsible for their share of co2 emissions and congestion on our roads, and this will also address problems relating to discrimination based on nationality, notably for passenger cars. implementation of the ‘user pays’ and ‘polluter pays’ principles is another key objective of the commission’s proposal. the vignette system should be progressively phased out in road charges, and charging should be on the basis of distance. this is a matter of both fairness and efficiency. distance—based charging is also a precondition for external-cost charging, which was requested in the recent resolution on road transport adopted by this house. it is also the precondition for rewarding the use of clean vehicles more effectively. for example, we propose to introduce a 75% toll discount for zero-emission vehicles. on connectivity, what will the road initiatives do for connected mobility? digitalisation is a very powerful means of achieving our various policy objectives. if we are to bring about more efficient road charging, europe needs interoperability of national toll systems. currently there are many different and independent charging systems in the eu, which are complicating cross—border transport. the commission is proposing new rules which will provide for one on—board unit, one contract and one invoice to users. another important area in which we propose further to develop digitalisation is enforcement. at a time when enforcement capacity in member states is being reduced, it is especially important to have modern and efficient tools available for controls. we propose to make better use of e—documents and digital tachographs, to improve the exchange of information between member states and to ensure interoperability between their systems. i look forwarding to discussing these proposals with you in the months to come. as we begin the discussions – in a spirit of openness and readiness to compromise, i hope – i would also like to urge everyone to keep in mind the actual problems which transport operators face on the ground. as you are all aware, these problems are quite substantial. so let us try to be pragmatic and find solutions that work and that are enforceable, for the road haulage sector and its workers on the one hand, but also for all our citizens – with reduced congestion and lower pollution and, above all, better road safety – and, last but not least, for the eu economy, so that relevant, efficient and competitive transport services can operate throughout the single market.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank you and to thank commission vice-president šefčovič for the presentation. wim van de camp spoke about the ‘baby’ being born, so we will now see whether the baby is well developed, whether the legs are as developed as the arms, and especially whether it has a complex brain and if it is balanced for future development. the philosophy with which you have approached this, commissioner, and the concept sound good. it is a concept i can subscribe to, even though you referred to jean-claude juncker’s ‘no dumping’ statement. i would appreciate it if he had added a bit more about the market, and about the protectionism that we also see in europe today. however, we need to give the package a chance and not only that: we need to develop it and make sure that it works in all the dimensions that you have presented. we also need to take into account that the backbone of the eu is the internal market, and the internal market has to function. there is no room for protectionism but there is also no room for misbehaviour or unfair treatment undermining the necessary social standards and environmental aspects. all that definitely has to be addressed. i would now like to make a few comments to my fellow meps. this is a package – and we see on a daily basis various national measures which are, in fact, fragmenting the internal market – and it is high time for this package to be addressed, developed and approved in a balanced way. that means that we need to treat it as a package and we need to make sure the package is approved within this parliamentary term. there is no other way, because the consequences of any alternative would be to the detriment of the internal market, of the rights of our entrepreneurs, of our workers’ social rights, and of the european union. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – this is far too fresh, but i have a problem. we keep looking at the united states all the time, regardless of the issue. we should be mature enough to have our own policies and to make sure that these policies work for us, bearing in mind the external factors. i really believe that this has to be given a chance and i am ready to work on it. on the other hand, i regret that, on the same day that president trump made the announcement, the german government, the legislature, just a few days ago enacted something that is foreseen in the package and should be left at european level. that is of more concern to me at the moment.
in writing. we've all waited too long for the so-called road package. it was surrounded by a number of myths and conjectures, but also by nervousness and the immediate experience of drivers and hauliers who have been exposed in recent months in some member states to considerable uncertainty, an incredible administrative burden and measures that have little to do with the internal market. our aim should be to set fair, clear and, above all, enforceable rules which, inter alia, contribute to improving safety and the efficient use of capacity and resources. and last but not least, to a more dignified driving environment, wherever they come from. today's debate in the european parliament's plenary session also showed that the legislative work ahead will not be easy, but we finally have the european commission's proposal on the table.
madam president, madam commissioner, even though we live in a time that allows many to live in luxuries never before seen, 1.6 billion people are in 56 countries that are classified as unstable. we should ask ourselves: how did this happen? and we must always be quite frank about the fact that the european colonial powers tried to suck these countries economically. when they left, they were targeted by multinational corporations, and the looting continued. it is only in recent decades that we have finally begun to talk about how the strengthening of basic public services, such as education, health, water and sanitation, is necessary to increase the resilience of these countries. for many years we have seen them as a means of building wealth, and now we must ensure a future they cannot do without, not least because we cannot afford instability and disintegrating states in the vicinity of the european union.
for the ppe group. mr. president, ukraine has chosen the path of self-determination. she knew it would be a politically and economically dangerous journey for her. she chose freedom over the security of vassal times. ukraine paid for its right to self-determination with the annexation of crimea by the russian federation and the brutal fighting in eastern ukraine. it paid off economically, too. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume to unrelated customers in the union increased by more than 10% during the period considered. the aim of this proposal is to increase the existing trade flows between the eu and ukraine. but i am afraid that the proposal of our parliament is overshadowed by the more favourable proposal of the european commission. ukraine is fragile, it's in transition, and it's at war. we must do everything we can to help her financially. but i would like to wish ukraine a true marshall plan.
mr president, madam commissioner, i see the autonomous additional measures as a useful instrument to support ukraine in its difficult economic situation and, following the association agreement, to support its gradual integration into the internal market of the european union. the measures under discussion today send a strong signal that the european union is ready to help ukraine. however, the report is less favourable than the european commission's proposal. from a foreign policy perspective, it is not possible for the european parliament to declare support for ukraine on the one hand, but then to practically empty the report of its content, thereby reducing the credibility of the european union as a partner. it is also important for us to take action as soon as possible on the original commission text, and thereby support ukraine and its economic development as much as possible, regardless of the kremlin's voices, which are echoed in this parliament from both the extreme right and the extreme left.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. – mr president, commissioner, there is one sector that has been a frontrunner in terms of utilising digital technologies, and that is transport. before automated driving, all connectivity between vehicles has become a sort of trend issue. we already have solid experience in terms of utilising ertms in the rail transport and sesar in aviation, and that has been a wholly positive experience. we know that the automation of transport and the use of digital processes are also beneficial for safety and the environment. the sector is moving in this direction, and that of course requires further support and incentives for the development of appropriate infrastructure and equipment. we need, as a matter of urgency, to deliver on network connectivity for innovation and training. what we really need is a digitalisation in industry strategy, but that strategy is needed so that we can grasp all the opportunities. there are, i would say, three important criteria: firstly, it must be long-term and across perspectives; secondly, we need to concentrate the financial resources in efsi; and thirdly, we need to monitor the implementation on behalf of the individual member states. there are two issues that i would like to mention briefly: the first is integrated ticketing, and the second is cyber security. i would appreciate it if the commissioner would focus on that.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. – mr president, [inaudible] my contribution because at one minute and fifteen seconds, i had two red lights. just for the record, i had two minutes of speaking time. i had to shorten it, and i am afraid that i could not deliver it entirely, but no harm done. this is just for clarification.
mr president, today, 31 may 2017, is the world multiple sclerosis day. multiple sclerosis is a chronic lifelong disease that affects the central nervous system. it is most commonly diagnosed between the ages of 20 and 40 with an average age of onset of 34 years and affects twice as many women as men. the disease is highly unpredictable and the symptoms of two patients can differ. more than 700 000 people in europe live with ms and there is a wide disparity in access to treatment. people facing the challenges of this disease deserve our support. we have done a lot, but we must continue. we need to increase the public funding that is available for the establishment and maintenance of specific patient registries. analysis of data at european level can provide some of the answers that regulators, healthcare payers, medical research and patient advocates are asking for in real-life patient situations. this can not only enable innovation through better understanding of treatment outcomes, but also reduce the cost to healthcare systems and improve access to medicines. let's not forget these patients, and let's not remember these patients just for this day.
member of the commission. – madam president, we are here to discuss issues related to media freedom and pluralism in the czech republic. i am aware that this week this was the subject of a hearing in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) and a number of concerns were highlighted there: the influence of politicians over media outlets, possible conflicts of interest between media ownership and political responsibilities, and transparency and media ownership. as you know, the competences of the commission in the field of media freedom and pluralism are limited. they are related specifically to the eu charter of fundamental rights. media freedom and pluralism are indeed fundamental rights enshrined in article 11 of that charter. however, the charter is addressed to member states only when they are implementing union law and this means that the commission can intervene in this field only when there is eu legislation at stake. this does not appear to be the case in the situation we are discussing here today. all member states in the european union have an obligation to ensure that we have independent media, a plurality of voices and the freedom to express those voices, and sadly europe is not immune from serious problems when it comes to media freedom and pluralism. these remain at risk both online and offline. the commission is aware of the challenges to media freedom and pluralism in various member states and i can assure you that we are closely monitoring the situation all over europe. one of the instruments that is particularly useful to this end is the eu-financed media pluralism monitor (mpm). it aims to identify and highlight risk to media pluralism and over recent years, the european university institute has performed the test implementation of this instrument in all member states in an independent manner. the results are publicly available and show that no member state in the european union is immune from risk when it comes to media pluralism. transparency of media ownership is one of the indicators used by the media pluralism monitor to measure the risk to media pluralism, and for this particular indicator we noted that the perceived risk for the czech republic is slightly higher than the average. let me give you some numbers from the eurobarometer survey where we are also monitoring the issue. a majority of the respondents do not believe that the national media are free from political or commercial pressure, while just over half of the respondents believe that their national media is providing trustworthy information. only 37% of the respondents think that the body that oversees audiovisual media in their country is free and independent of pressure. as regards the czech republic, the figures are close to this eu average. a majority, 58%, said that the national media do not provide information free from political or commercial pressure. the results of the mpm and the eurobarometer survey showed that media freedom and pluralism cannot be taken for granted in the eu, and we have to be vigilant here. as i said, the commission has only limited competences in this area, but we are definitely aware of current challenges and we are following the situation closely. ultimately, i think the answer to the current trends and challenges in the media landscapes are more media freedom, more pluralism. these have helped us build up our democratic societies in the analogue age and are ever more necessary today in the digital society. within the competences that we have in the commission, we are taking a number of actions to strengthen media freedom and pluralism across the eu. for example, we have proposed to review the audiovisual media service directive presented in may last year; this requires regulatory authorities in the field of audiovisual media services to be independent, setting down requirements of independence that they have to comply with. the independence of audiovisual regulatory authorities is crucial to ensure correct and unbiased implementation of the directive so that the digital single market becomes a reality, and that is also key for ensuring media freedom and pluralism. furthermore, we are implementing a variety of independent projects financed by you in the european parliament in the area of media freedom and pluralism. these projects monitor risks to media pluralism in all member states, as well as threats to and attacks on journalists, which are is unfortunately becoming more and more frequent. they also provide media professionals under threat with practical solutions. and there is no doubt: europe needs a strong, transparent, competitive, sustainable, free and pluralistic media sector. citizens need to have the possibility to access good quality news and a diverse range of opinions. opinions must be free to be expressed, voices must be free to be heard. journalists must therefore be able to work free from threats and in a safe environment, which also includes freedom from economic pressure. this is the work of all of us, and it should be a shared responsibility of the eu institutions working together, national policymakers, media companies and of course citizens. we need to work towards our common goal, which is to ensure that these fundamental rights of every eu citizen are fully valued and respected.
for the ppe group. madam president, a free and pluralistic media is one of the fundamental values of our society today. they are a pillar of democracy and a prerequisite for fair political competition, but meeting this obvious requirement is no easy task today. the reason for today's meeting was the behavior of a few individuals from my country and the failures of others. it's not the fault of the legislators, it's not the fault of our citizens. it is easy to say that a quarter of a century of young czech democracy and the rule of law has been confronted with the brutal force with which some top politicians pursue their political and economic interests. and it may be added that such conflicts simply cause damage and there is nothing that can be done about it. you can say that, but it would be a huge mistake. attempts to manipulate the media in our country, for example, by deliberately unilaterally reporting on the refugee crisis on a private television station, or by arguing with a member of the government and owner of a major newspaper with their editor about publishing cases against their opponents, are only czech variations on similar problems that manifest themselves with different intensity in different european countries. and that's why it's good that we're talking about them here today. we're not going to solve the problem today, of course. there is virtually never a simple solution to a complex problem. the remedy, in my view, is by no means new regulations or increased powers for the european union. the risk of political abuse of the media can be reduced mainly by a combination of a functioning civil society, good quality laws, clear enforcement and a well-thought-out system to protect and promote the independence of journalists. in my view, protecting the independence and quality of public service media is a major issue. and of course, the exchange of best practice between the european union member countries can improve the home environment. ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by saying that the manipulation and abuse of the media in europe today involves not only threats from within but also threats from without. i am talking about propaganda and false information being deliberately spread by some russian media in the european union. the french president spoke about this recently after meeting with president putin. it's a threat we must face together. and finally, the last sentence. let me thank all the journalists who, despite political pressure, do their work responsibly, independently and with quality.
for the s&d group. madam president, i will be less general, because many people have asked me in connection with this point whether the media are really being politically abused in the czech republic. i think that this is a serious question that must be answered clearly and categorically. no, there is no systematic abuse of the media by the government or other state power in the czech republic through the law or media councils. but it turned out that one particular politician, and unfortunately also deputy prime minister, could not resist the temptation to use his empire to strengthen his own power. i would like to quote here the resolution adopted by the czech parliament at the extraordinary session of the chamber of deputies on 10 may, which states, and i quote: 'deputy prime minister and minister of finance andrej babiš has repeatedly lied in his public speeches and abused his media to compromise political rivals.' these are simple facts. the second important question is whether the rule of law is preserved in the czech republic. yes, he is. the minister of finance has already been dismissed on the proposal of the prime minister and replaced by another minister from the same party. prime minister bohuslav sobotka, at the head of the government, managed the entire crisis completely within the constitutional order of the czech republic, and thanks to his work, the government continues to operate until the regular elections in october of this year. it is therefore very appropriate in this context to say that the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry was proposed to investigate the recordings, as a result of which the scandal emerged that the case was being handled by the police of the czech republic, that it was handled by the state security council, and that the conflict of interest law adopted by the czech parliament should contribute to the handling of similar cases in the future. the third question that remains is whether the risk of jeopardising democratic competition and freedom of the press in the czech republic has been definitively overcome. and to that question, i'm afraid i have to answer no. a normal politician of a traditional political party would have disappeared from politics like steam over a pot after such a case. but in the czech republic, a man has risen to the top of politics, who has gathered in his hands enormous political, economic and at the same time media power, and does not hesitate to use this power of his empire at any time. combined with extreme ambition and a clear dislike of democratic institutions, this poses a real risk of undermining democratic competition, democracy and ultimately freedom. unfortunately, even the most advanced democracies don't have enough protection against savage billionaires and media moguls, because they tend to be very cute at first, and sober comes late. but there is hope for the future in the fact that so many people have not been in the streets and squares since the velvet revolution in 1989 as many came out in may this year to stop mr. andrei babiš.
for the ecr group. madam president, i consider that this item is unnecessary in the european parliament. we have a pluralistic media environment in the czech republic, we have private media, public media. there is competition in the media market, no one has a media monopoly, there is no censorship, no one threatens journalists, we have media legislation and media freedom in the czech republic is therefore not threatened. yes, the chairman of a political movement, a former finance minister, let's say an oligarch, owns a certain part of the media and as an owner he has influenced the content of those media towards political competitors. we know that now, it's come to light, it's unacceptable, of course, but we can solve it ourselves. we have also already prohibited by law the direct ownership of the media by active politicians. and let's say a few things: there are other media owners who are not active politicians, but they also control the content of their media. there are politicians who, although they do not own the media, are very close to some journalists and some media owners and thus have a privileged treatment in these media. and besides honest and objective journalists, there are also journalists who behave more like political activists, and there are certainly journalists who are so-called for sale, and therefore write biased, biased and untrue. but this is not just a problem in the czech republic, it is a general problem, i think it exists in all countries, and i think there is no reason for only one country to be grilled for this, in this case my country. i have a feeling that there is a certain amount of settling of accounts between the european people's party and the european liberal party. the liberals criticized hungary, the populists didn't like it, so now they're taking it back to the czech republic. we who are in opposition to mr. babis will soon be facing him in the election. it's the only way to solve this politically. but neither the commission nor parliament will solve it. we believe that dirty laundry should be washed at home, and i assure you, we do it at home, too.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to say that i am not quite sure why we are discussing the situation in the czech media environment here today. i believe the european parliament should be addressing systemic issues in those member states that fail to respect fundamental democratic principles and where independent journalism faces institutional obstacles. the czech republic is certainly not one of them. it goes without saying that the action of andrej babiš, the leader of the party that i represent here in parliament and who has been referred to, was unacceptable. i have indeed raised the issue with him, publicly denounced his actions and publicly asked him to provide a full account of what exactly happened and what his role in the matter was. i also called on him to facilitate the resolution of the situation by resigning. he is no longer a member of the government. but the czech republic has functioning democratic institutions whose capability of dealing with such problems remains unrestrained. we have conflict of interest legislation in place which has prompted andrej babiš to place his media and other companies in a trust fund. these institutions are well placed to assess whether that is sufficient, but all of that is just one single case. it might be interesting to know that the latest press freedom index put out by the respected organisation reporters without borders ranks the czech republic 23rd out of 180 countries in the world, well above france which ranks 39th, the uk which is 40th, or italy which is 52nd. the czech media and czech journalists are free to do their job properly. i see a much bigger reason for concern which is my country’s ambiguous and rather passive european policies. i do not think this is something we should be debating here either, but i would understand that many of you would like to understand an increasing ambiguity in eu issues in the czech republic and other eu countries as well, their passivity and ever-stronger tendency to see the european integration process in purely financial terms. but again, this is an issue common to many countries, not just the czech republic. it seems that the czech politicians, including president miloš zeman, have forgotten what brought us into the eu ranks in the first place. i hope that the czech people will choose truly european leaders in the general election this fall, and especially the presidential elections next january. that will surely bring a welcome break for many, including myself. the czechs as well as other eu nations need real leaders to actively shape the debate on a number of issues, from brexit and the future european integration to pressing security and other challenges on which we are often slow and weak. we need decisions on enforcement. i want a czech debate on these issues as well as a czech debate on europe. instead of discussing the failure of one czech politician in one single issue, however important it might be, we should focus on working towards a reform of the eu. time, rather than the eu institutions, will tell whether europe will develop into a multi-speed bloc, or whether it will further integrate. that will naturally be decided by our own ability to come to agreements on specific problems and challenges, so let us first make clear what these problems are and let us start dealing with them. czech journalism, as well as the need for a swift independent investigation into the recordings of the former first deputy prime minister, is not one of them.
for the group gue/ngl. madam president, first of all, let me ask you today to realize that the criticism you are planning to make today should not be directed against the people of the czech republic or against our country. the main culprit in this whole situation is one person, andrej babiš. he founded a new political movement in 2011 and two years later he bought one of the most important publishing houses in the country. his motivation was clear. using bought-out media to influence czech public opinion in an attempt to secure as much political power as possible. we all know that this is not the first time that the independent exercise of the fourth power in the state has been complicated or made impossible by politicians. unfortunately, the case we are dealing with today is not so unique, and we have to admit that we don't know much about how to effectively prevent these situations. i understand that the european parliament needs to speak on this matter, but i think it is necessary to recognize that three important european politicians were aware of this conflict of interest, but looked the other way. guy verhofstadt, who brought this new political movement into the alde group, commissioner věra jourová, who was nominated for the post by babiš's movement, and pavel telička, who led the ano candidate to the european parliament. all these people were very well aware that andrej babiš had bought the mafra media group only after he had announced his entry into politics. if they thought the two actions were unrelated, then they showed an incredible level of political naivete, and i consider their current outrage to be false. because grandma probably followed the rules of the godfather book, which gave everyone close to him the rule that asking about his business is strictly forbidden. the future of the grandmother in the czech republic is now in the hands of our citizens, thanks to the upcoming elections. it is in our hands and i trust the czech citizens that they will solve this problem, and i have enough confidence that the czech republic itself will deal with it without us having to continue to deal with this problem or comment on it in the european parliament.
madam president, the fact that we are discussing this particular point here in the european parliament today is a huge mistake on the part of those who have inserted it into the agenda. i'm sending word that i'm from the opposition party and should rather rejoice over the problems of my opponent. but i am deeply convinced that this problem must be solved by the czech republic itself and especially by the voters in our country. the abuse and influence of the media in the czech republic by mr. babiš, who is also the chairman of a political party and until recently was the minister of finance, probably happened and is happening. which is an ugly and unacceptable fact. of course, it's a huge problem when the second richest man in the czech republic, the czech oligarch, uses his assets in political competition, primarily in the media scene. the european parliament is a political body which should not play the role of the wise, supreme european executive. mr. babiš, the former minister, is to be torn apart by the domestic political opposition and truly independent journalists. the response must be to hold voters accountable in the next election. we cannot, of course, spread true democracy across europe in a two-carriage wagon from the european parliament. i am deeply convinced that the czech republic is a sufficiently developed democratic country to cope with this dangerous excess on its own. it might take a little longer. but what's more important is the voter experience of the future as it's experienced today.
madam president, the 1990s have been associated in the countries of central and eastern europe with a huge property revolution. the result of the media divestment was the dominance of the german and swiss groups on the media market in virtually all of these countries. this absolutely unimaginable situation in the western countries of the eu and in the united states is starting to turn for the worse. in the czech republic, the media is gradually being bought by multimillionaires, and since there is no ownership regulation in this area, which is common in the us and the uk, the risk of direct influence on public opinion by the new owners is very real. this situation is not much different from other states in our region, but the democratic traditions in the czech republic cause its inhabitants to rightly criticize it. from the european union's point of view, this is nothing unusual, and it is surprising that similar discussions on media freedom in other countries, not only in the region of central and eastern europe, have not taken place for a long time. apparently, it's a double standard, and that's worthy of some serious criticism.
madam president, in the libe committee this debate has already turned into a debate on media freedom and has precisely defined the situation: media freedom is guaranteed by law, but it is nevertheless constantly under threat. this map by reporters without borders shows the situation in the czech republic compared to other european countries. but for us politicians, it must be about the right of citizens to truthful and independent information. when media freedom is threatened, democracy is threatened. this is true all over the world and also in the czech republic. the facts show that there is an increased risk of concentration and non-transparency of media ownership in the czech republic. it's a systemic problem, but it's a political problem, because a wealthy businessman, now an oligarch, has entered politics, has bought up the media and is influencing it to his advantage. that is also why i understand my colleagues are concerned and want to warn us of this risk. that's why we're talking about it here today. only the citizens of the czech republic can really change this in the october elections, if they do not vote for the businessman who, through his own media, manipulates the opinion of the voters and influences his own media. i want to emphasize the importance of the public media, the need to confront this situation with their independence and freedom. this must be defended in a national, czech, but also european context. so the message of this debate for me is that we need to defend pluralism, independence and, above all, the strong position of the public media, which need our support. (the rapporteur has agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
the question posed by the blue card. dear colleague, it is evident that journalists working in the media of the babiš oligarchy are becoming afraid and subject to self-censorship. what do you think is more dangerous, self-censorship or direct censorship?
answer the question by raising the blue card. mr. speaker, both are equally dangerous, but the difference is that while censorship is prohibited by law in the czech republic, self-censorship is not. and i think there's a legitimate concern that the media owner is treating their editors in the newsrooms as if they were actually an employer, and that self-censorship is unfortunately working, much like it did under the communism that we still remember.
the question posed by the blue card. you said the problem was broader. so can we say that this problem is not only in the czech republic, that for example brexit and its presentation affected some economic groups, can we say that this problem is not sufficiently solved in slovakia, that there may have been an impact on the public law scene there, and can we say in the context of the entire european union that it needs to be addressed in some way?
madam president, i would first like to say that i did not initiate this debate and that what has happened here and what has happened in the libe committee shows that this debate was completely useless and only brought shame to the czech republic. to what the previous speaker said: the czech republic has long been one of the countries with the freest press, and i am personally proud of that. when i was in cuba, they pointed to the czech republic and the legacy of vaclav havel as the one they want to approach. ladies and gentlemen, this is a selective view of one country. last time it was poland, then hungary, and now we're throwing the czech republic into the same package. but nobody here is dealing with the fact that the uk is 40th in media freedom, france is 39th, and the united states is even 41st or 42nd. i think we really need to put these things in context and not pick and choose one country before the election.
madam president, regardless of today's debate, the people of the czech republic will be the ones to decide the future of the country. the question is how and by what is this decision influenced, whether the game is still within the limits of fair play and whether all players have comparable conditions. the answer cannot be yes if the possibilities of one of the rivals outweigh the possibilities of all the others by many, many times. the risk of political abuse of the media is a concomitant phenomenon of the oligarchization of czech politics. the media in a dependent position becomes not a source of control of political power, but on the contrary a cynical instrument for its consolidation. the dependence of the media and journalists, whether political or economic, is undermining one of the pillars on which democracy stands. this is not a problem unique to the czech republic, although it is a very topical issue here. the promotion of the independence, impartiality and quality of public service media is therefore crucial in this situation. but we are also talking about the integrity and honesty of the journalistic state, which the political crisis in the czech republic, the released recordings and the subsequent reactions have set a merciless mirror. it showed that among journalists as well as among politicians there is a lot of egotism, irresponsibility and yes, corruption and clientelism.
mr president, commissioner, i will vote in favour of this report because it is a balanced text on the important subject of the rights of vulnerable adults, and i thank the rapporteur for it. the report does not deal with artificial problems, but rather with problems which already exist in reality and cause real problems to real citizens of the european union. more and more citizens of the member states are taking advantage of the freedom of movement within the european union. one million three hundred thousand citizens over the age of 65 do not live in their member state of origin. and older citizens in particular can benefit from the implementation of the proposals contained in this report. the rules for dealing with situations with a crossborder element are governed by a number of european or international regulations, but this is a very diverse area governed by different types of legislation. citizens today expect legislation to reflect their increased mobility. citizens today also rightly expect that if they can move legally across borders and can legally acquire property in different member states, they will also be able, for example, to delegate the management of their property to their relatives residing in another member state without unnecessary administrative procedures. i consider that the proposed harmonisation of the recognition of enforcement of decisions taken by the authorities of the member states, in the presence of clearly formulated public policy reservations, is in the interest of the citizens of the european union. the future regulation must, above all, be as transparent as possible and must create a clear and simple system that is understandable to the ordinary citizen. in removing the loophole, we must first of all have in mind the emergence of functional rules that respond adequately to the existing situation.
madam president, i also voted in favour because i consider access to the internet to be an absolutely key agenda in all the practical policies of the european union, and i would like to point out that it is precisely access to the internet that has not only improved the quality of life, but is actually a prerequisite for the electronicisation of public reporting. and as my colleague mr nekov has already said, i think it is very important that there should be no further cuts between the countryside and the central areas. it's estimated that 70 percent of the european population will be living in the largest european cities within 20 years, and if you say somewhere in the countryside today, maybe they don't even have access to 3g, then when we talk about access to 5g operational speeds today, we're actually talking about a trip to mars. it's important that these scissors don't open any further and that we focus on keeping people in the countryside. access to the internet is very crucial.
madam president, i supported this report on the proposal for a regulation introducing temporary autonomous trade measures for ukraine, which should allow for increased exports of agricultural and industrial products from ukraine to the union. however, these measures should not have any significant impact on the european market. but they can be of great help to ukraine. in the course of the investigation, the commission found that the ukrainian authorities had not provided sufficient evidence to support the claim that the measures in question were necessary to restore the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of ukraine. ukrainians chose integration with a democratic european union over the sphere of influence of putin's russia in 2014 and paid a heavy price for that choice. finally, i would like to express my great satisfaction that the ratification of the association agreement with ukraine has been completed in the netherlands and that there is therefore no longer any obstacle to its entry into force.
madam president, i supported this report and i would like to say at the outset that i too believe that the support that should be directed to the ukrainian economy should be higher. however, if that was the measure on the table, i was happy to support it. i think we must have a certain amount of guilt about how russia's violation of international law could have gone unpunished. and if the european union could not help militarily, which is obviously not our goal and was not possible, then the only support can be in supporting the ukrainian economy and maintaining the embargoes that european countries have imposed. but we must not forget the regions that will be affected by these measures, within the european union. it is the surrounding regions in particular that we should be directing some support measures to. i would also like to express my appreciation for the completion of the ratification of the association agreement with ukraine, because this step by the netherlands is undoubtedly very pro-european in the light of the referendum that took place.
madam president, i supported the report on the digitisation of european industry because i believe that the development of digital industry has the potential to contribute to tackling europe's major social and economic problems. these include social inequalities and youth unemployment. 40% of european workers still lack the necessary digital skills and there is a risk that this potential will simply remain untapped. we therefore need to promote digital literacy among all groups of the population, including the elderly and minorities. i therefore also call on the member states to provide their citizens with appropriate assistance in their schools in the context of retraining courses, inter alia, with the help of european social fund funds.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report, as i recall, with 571 of my colleagues. this report, in my view, is not at all political and shows that our economy simply cannot survive in the future without a thorough digitisation. it's the same as mr. boni's report on 5g access. without a thorough digitisation, the economy would not have achieved the performance it has today. digitalisation is needed precisely for better investment, for more jobs, for a more resource-efficient way of doing things in general and for innovation. all of this is important and is a precondition for an economy - both industry and services - to grow and be competitive in the global market. without digitization, it's just not going to work.
madam president, i would like to say that the holocaust is part of the common european memory. the anti-semitic attacks that have increased considerably in the new millennium - and we can mention toulouse, brussels, paris - are in direct contradiction with the ideals of european integration. whether they're right-wing radicals or islamists. so it's good that the european commission and also national governments are coming up with more initiatives against anti-semitism. that is why i also supported and am pleased that the amendment was adopted to allow the european union and the member states to adopt the definition of anti-semitism used by the international holocaust remembrance society. this definition is necessary in identifying and punishing anti-semitic expressions, which are also growing considerably on social networks. this is a phenomenon that we must fight vigorously. the audiovisual services directive will also provide us with certain tools which we can use.
madam president, anti-semitism is on the rise in europe. this is a fact, this is a reality, it needs to be addressed and it is disturbing and i am afraid that this phenomenon will not just disappear because it is a different type of anti-semitism than we have known in the past, for example in the 1930s in germany. the new anti-semitism is related to the structural and demographic changes of societies in some european countries, where strong diasporas are being created from countries that have a confrontational or directly hostile relationship with the state of israel, and from these diasporas islamist radicals are then recruited, who are the carriers of this new anti-semitism. this must be acknowledged, not ignored in the name of false political correctness, and the european union must also take this into account, for example, when providing development and humanitarian and other financial aid to certain countries in the middle east and north africa.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the euro-med cooperation process in research and innovation was launched in barcelona in 2012: that is five years ago. it took us five years to arrive at the day where we are today where we have a programme which, in my opinion, is pretty significant in that area, a programme that should lead to integration of capacities, our capabilities and abilities. we quite often speak of the euro-med region as in some respects problematic. some of us or many of us speak of it as a region which also generates migration. the fact is that this region has socioeconomic challenges that we need to cope with and this is one of the possible replies. i am a little bit concerned that it was quite difficult to negotiate the budget for this programme: it is as if we always have a difference between the ambition and the understanding that we need the means to tackle the issues at the roots, but then when we have a programme which has a solid basis, we have the difficulties to allocate the necessary financial means. but i think that the outcome is a positive one, it is something that we can build on. yes, it is public-public, but that has a spillover effect as we say that it has to be close to the market. the areas concerned: water management, wastewater, climate change, i mean, we are even talking about issues which concern the circular economy. these, if successful, will have significant implications on the living conditions in that region, in those countries concerned. everyone participating has something to offer. so thank you commissioner, madam rapporteur, thank you for your cooperation, i think this is a good programme to embark on and let us make it a success.
mr president, quite a few years back, together with esko aho and two other colleagues, we were evaluating the framework programme and i must say that it was quite depressing. in fact, from the interviews with the applicants, successful and unsuccessful, those that did not apply and the commission, we found out that the best outcome was not working. in comparison with that, horizon 2020 is a success for sure. but i think there are three lines on which we can still improve. first, as many colleagues have said, we definitely need to recover the budget, so that is something where parliament can deliver impetus. second, we can still do better in terms of simplifying and lowering the administrative burden. this still plays a significant role in terms of, let us say, applicants avoiding it. and third, which is absolutely key, i think we should still fine-tune the tools of evaluation. for me, the question is how much did it lead to real innovation? how many projects led to commercialisation, and so on, and in a longer time span? let us work on that.
it has been made clear on several occasions that horizon 2020 is important for ensuring the competitiveness of european industry, and must promote excellence, basic and applied research. we all agree with that, as well as with the increase in funds. i would like to mention two things which i consider to be essential. the disproportion between the western and eastern countries' consumption cannot continue. 84% to 4.5% is a drawdown that not only the member states but also the european commission cannot afford. commissioner, we need to take more effective action here. the second point is brexit. it will, of course, have a major impact on the pump. the uk is the second largest beneficiary of this horizon 2020 programme and i ask: what is the impact on the perception of the eu in the member states? how is it that a country that has the second largest draw from horizon 2020 has decided to leave the eu? we should think about that.
cohesion policy has helped to bring to the world a number of useful projects important for the development of structurally weaker regions in recent years. however, we should not approach cohesion policy without further context. one of these is, for example, the outflow of profits, which in the case of the czech republic is estimated at tens of billions of crowns annually. that's the funding that's missing from the budget. our efforts should therefore be directed towards real economic convergence, including wage convergence, without which further inequalities and problems for the functioning of the eu internal market are inevitably created. the positive presentation of the results of the structural funds is independent of the size of the tables and the number of pr items. people simply need to see that european money is going to things that are really needed. rather than a small presentation of the good, it is the existence of some bad examples that does the structural funds and the whole cohesion policy a disservice. but that does not mean that we should question or relativize its meaning and value in any way.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 13 june 2017. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by martina dlabajová and inés ayala sender, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on cost effectiveness of the 7th research programme (2015/2318(ini)) (a8—0194/2017).
, the rapporteur. i prepared the cost-effectiveness report for the seventh framework programme for research and innovation in collaboration with my colleague inés ayalova sender, whom i would like to thank very much, as well as other colleagues for their many valuable comments and opinions. the seventh framework programme handled almost €55 billion in total between 2007 and 2013, representing around 3% of total r & d spending in europe. over the seven years of the programme, more than 139 000 research proposals were submitted, of which 25 000 projects of the highest quality were selected for funding. the main beneficiaries were universities, research and technological organisations and small, medium and large enterprises. i would remind you that in total almost 29 000 organisations from all over europe have participated in the framework programme. the experts have rated the program as a success, and i am happy to agree with them. like them, i would like to emphasise that the best scientific work has been supported at both individual and institutional level. it has succeeded in bringing together smes and in establishing strategic cooperation and innovation across industries. i would also like to highlight the support for the mobility of researchers in europe, the support for investment in european research infrastructures, the building of a comprehensive network capable of addressing thematic challenges, thus strengthening the european research area overall. these are very concrete projects, with a significant contribution to society and the economy. in the field of medicine, these include new methods for detecting diabetes, cancer, alzheimer's disease, portable detection tools, and so on. in the field of information and communication technology, this is particularly the case with the development of the internet of things or artificial intelligence. and i could continue to do so in the fields of energy, environmental protection, security, or transportation. but beware, of course, there's always room for improvement. in evaluating the effectiveness of the programme, we also found a number of weaknesses, such as a high administrative burden, complex legal and financial rules, a narrow range of topics and challenges, a lack of emphasis on industry participation and communication. both the public consultation of beneficiaries and a number of audits have shown that, unfortunately, miscalculated personnel costs and ineligible direct and indirect costs are the main source of errors. in this respect, however, i would like to thank the commission and the commissioner for the fact that most of these weaknesses have already been addressed in horizon 2020 and that intensive work is underway to address further errors and systematic errors. support for research and innovation is crucial for the future development of the european union. i would therefore like to urge the member states to make a special effort to meet the common objective of investing 3% of the union's gdp in science, research and innovation. only in this way will we be able to continue to achieve excellence in research and innovation and thus contribute to the union's economic growth.
i would like to thank both reporters for a very good report. this report notes that the seventh framework programme has been used effectively and points to a number of sub-deficiencies. i assume that the commission has learned its lesson and that horizon 2020 has already used the comments made in the past. the largest recipients for 2015 were researchers in germany, the uk, france, italy and spain. unfortunately, this disparity is shown to persist in this period, and it would be a great mistake if we failed to change this situation. i would urge the commissioner to do everything possible, together with the member states, to ensure that horizon 2020 is better used in terms of geographical distribution. i suppose that's an effective focus on exclusivity, of course, but it's a shame not to use the potential of more countries.
i agree with the rapporteur, mrs dlabaj, who has made it clear that this policy is absolutely crucial for the eu, as are the 3%. if the eu is to survive in the global market, i firmly believe that it is necessary not only to invest this 3%, but also to reduce the administrative and bureaucratic burden. i think that this is unfortunately the case not only for the seventh framework programme for research and innovation, which we are examining here, but also for cohesion policy, for example. in my view, it is essential not to downplay the importance of horizon 2020 as has been done, for example, with the attempt to introduce the juncker package. it is important that this policy really remains at the forefront, because research and innovation should be at the forefront. secondly, they must be fully transparent and as transparent as possible, also in terms of the administrative burden. in preparing the ninth framework, we should learn from the fact that we are not leaders in this area and we should strive to be leaders.
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all let me thank the rapporteurs, ms martina dlabajová and ms inés ayala sender, for their excellent report on the cost-effectiveness of the 7th research framework programme (fp7). i also take this opportunity to thank all the honourable members for their continued interest in the field of research and innovation. we all agree on the crucial importance of research and innovation for european job creation, growth, competitiveness and in improving european citizens’ lives. your report concludes, and rightly so, that, i quote, ‘the commission, overall, managed the fp7 cost effectively’ and i very much welcome this conclusion concerning the previous research programme and i take the opportunity to thank publicly my predecessor máire geoghegan-quinn for her tremendous work in her tenure. your report and all the independent evaluations of fp7 that we have undertaken clearly underline that european research funding is a crucial piece for the future of europe, which leads to concrete outputs – mrs dlabajová just referred to some of those concrete outputs – and for a more competitive economy and better lives for our citizens. but i also agree with you that the successor of fp7, horizon 2020, has led to further improvements. we have now one single and simple set of rules that is much more appreciated and more accountable. your report recognises this, and especially the simplifications that we have been introducing and the second wave of simplification that we will introduce because it is an ongoing process. we are on the right track but we need to do more. we need especially to look at new ideas for funding. this is part of the debate that we will have with the research and innovation community and with this parliament over the next few years and i look forward to it. some of you, i think, raised the questions that are important for the future. mr novakov said, how are we going to link better business to science? he said he wants to see more nobel prizes. i would just remind you that the european research council has produced in ten years six nobel prizes, four fields medals and five wolf prizes. then i think that when you look at the question of how we are going to work with the structural funds, that mrs šojdrová said it. we need to work more in widening and look at how we can do better with other countries, how to help them to go up the ladder of excellence. but let us be honest: europe still lags behind other places, behind its competitors in some areas, and we are collectively failing to reach the target of 3% of gdp invested in research and development. i really welcome the idea that ms inés ayala sender put forward of this pact for science with the regions, which is, i think, the way to approach it; how you can actually go region by region in europe, help them with this pact for science, with investing more, and i think this is something that we should work on together and i count on you. we cannot therefore rest on our laurels and what we did well. we have to keep working in many areas to ensure that research and innovation framework programmes are as effective as possible, and that research and innovation is supported and encouraged across europe. this includes having a budget that is sufficient to meet those challenges and again i count on you in this parliament to help with looking forward to that budget of the future that today is clearly insufficient for what we need for europe, for jobs and for growth. your report also identifies a number of the challenges that we face in implementing a large programme and you know that i take these challenges seriously. a number of them have already been solved and i think ms dlabajová recognised that in her speech. others need to be addressed in the future programme. your report will provide a good basis for future consideration. taking as a basis paragraph 13 in your report i will continue to strive for, and i quote, ‘optimal balance between the attractiveness of programmes to participants and the legitimate necessity of accountability and financial control.’ i think this balance is crucial and also answers the point made by ms inés ayala sender on the error rate, and i think too the point by another honourable member, that we have to strike this balance between trust and accountability. how can we get this balance right so we have more innovation? in conclusion, i am delighted that overall you concluded that the fp7 has been managed in a cost-effective manner, which is an encouragement to me and to my colleagues. fp7 has produced very good results and it has been a worthwhile investment of european money. your report also shows that fp7 was not perfect. horizon 2020 is in many respects a further improvement, but we should never stop working to improve our programmes. ms dlabajová said several things, but one sticks in my mind: she said that sometimes the topics were too narrow – narrowly defined topics and i think that if you ask me what my dream is for the future, the first is to do what we do well, very well, and not touch it, but that we have to open up in science so we get the best of the best by not defining sometimes those topics as narrowly as you described in your words. i think that we should not stop working for the benefit of researchers and innovators and for europe as a whole, and all of you here can be assured that i will continue to work on this. so thank you very much for your attention.
commissioner, thank you for sharing your dream with us at this late hour. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 13 june 2017.
the next item is the report by constance le grip, on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, on the need for an eu strategy to end and prevent the gender pension gap (2016/2061(ini)) (a8—0197/2017). my understanding is that the rapporteur cannot be present, so ms kozłowska—rajewicz will step in for her.
the ep report correctly reveals that the gender pension gap is due to career interruptions and fewer years of work as a result of unpaid work done by women and mothers in their families. we know this from experience. it's been shown statistically that the differences increase with the number of children. if a woman has 3 or more children, this represents a difference of up to 20% more. in other words, a woman who is a mother, who takes care of her children, who invests her time in their education and ensures the future of the nation, is discriminated against and her work is not recognized. the eu cannot dictate to the member states how to do this, but it is up to them, the member states, to adjust income levels, to adjust pension systems, to encourage parents to share the burden and responsibility. but the eu strategy must be to challenge the status quo, to promote motherhood and to reward the work of caring parents.
i want to say at the outset that the czech republic also has quite a lot of white spaces in this item that it has not been able to meet yet, but as far as the european topic is concerned, i would like to say that maybe it will sound rather audacious , but it is not possible that it is exactly the same pension. equal pensions cannot exist economically as a category, it must be a merit system. it should also be noted that the woman devoted those years to the education of her offspring, that those years continue to contribute to the system that is supposed to maintain social stability. i believe that merit should be measured in what a woman has done for the company. i agree with everything that has been said by my colleagues. just please keep in mind that women also live longer, on average 5 years, and that they actually get paid in this system for longer, that also needs to be evaluated.
the issue of the gender pay gap comes up every year when the european commission publishes these statistics. but if women are still discriminated against in terms of pay, it is not surprising that they also receive an average of 40% less in retirement. the main reasons are well described in the report by mrs le grip. women are more likely than men to work in low-paid sectors and are also more likely to care for families, children or grandparents. so on the one hand, women are still expected to care for others, but on the other hand, this care is not appreciated by society. women can keep up with the evolution of their professions after returning from maternity leave if they have a sufficient network of quality nurseries and kindergartens and if they can continue to work on a flexible schedule. it is therefore not enough to adopt further commitments and strategic documents, but we must work to ensure that member states put these measures into practice as soon as possible. otherwise, we will meet here again and again for the same debate in the years to come.
member of the commission. – mr president, on behalf of my colleague věra jourová, let me thank everyone here for the work in this house on this very important topic. women account for almost two-thirds of pensioners in the eu, and they receive pensions which are, on average, 38% lower than men. they make up the bulk of the pensioners who have small pensions. as a result, many women experience retirement under financial constraints and with an increased loss of independence, as some of you described. older women are also far more likely than men to live alone and with limiting disabilities. this makes their lower pensions even less adequate. simply put, older women in the eu are at higher risk of poverty and social exclusion then older men. the commission is glad to see that the european parliament has taken up this major issue, and i would like to thank ms le grip and ms kozłowska—rajewicz for their hard work on this report. it rightly puts emphasis on how to improve women’s ability to build up pension entitlements. but, unfortunately, the gender gap in pensions is likely to persist as long as women continue to earn less and are more likely to interrupt their careers and to work part—time. these factors further reinforce the gap. we need decisive action to increase women’s participation on the labour market. we need to ensure that they are no longer obliged to choose between their family and their professional career. we also want to give fathers more opportunities to take on more family responsibilities. this is precisely the aim of the initiative to support work-life balance for parents and carers which the commission adopted in april 2017. this package of legislative and non-legislative actions is one of the concrete initiatives, putting the principles of the pillar of social rights into action. in addition, the commission is committed to taking action against the root causes of the gender pay gap. discrimination on the grounds of gender is still prevalent at work, so strong monitoring and enforcement of existing rights is more necessary than ever. we will continue to support stakeholders in their effort to break the glass ceiling, to combat segregation on the labour market, to improve women’s access to high—earning professions and to ensure that skills, efforts and responsibilities are recognised in all sectors. action is needed to close gaps on the labour market, but it is equally important to guarantee decent pensions to current pensioners. we need to take into account the situation of older women who have already reached, or are nearing, retirement age. i hear and share your concerns that recent pension reforms may actually exacerbate inequalities. we will be vigilant and further investigate the effect of a shift towards a multi-pillar system. for instance, in the framework of the 2018 pension adequacy report, we will continue to draw attention to gender gaps in our cooperation with the member states on pensions.
commissioner, thank you for your words and for being with us here this evening. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 14 june 2017. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by amjad bashir, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on statelessness in south and south—east asia (2016/2220(ini)) (a8-0182/2017).
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr bashir on his report. this topic is of great importance for the european union and for me personally, and i am glad to be here today with you. the european union addresses statelessness in different aspects of its external policies, including in our political relationships and development cooperation programmes, as well as in the enlargement process. through our humanitarian assistance we support the lives of stateless people: i have seen this myself on the ground very recently. we encourage third countries to ratify the 1954 convention relating to the status of stateless persons and the 1961 convention on the reduction of statelessness. we urge partner governments to take measures to address situations of statelessness, including by granting citizenship to stateless persons, and we call on them to ensure that these people have access to public services, including health and education. stateless persons are vulnerable to arbitrary treatment and crimes like human trafficking. where whole communities are affected we can witness poverty and marginalisation and, as a consequence, significant humanitarian and development needs. the marginalisation of such people can create tensions in society. it can lead to radicalisation and this is extremely dangerous. it can lead to instability at both national and international level. also, in extreme cases, it can lead to conflict and displacement. statelessness is an issue the eu addresses in a series of instruments and policies: first, the eu action plan for human rights and democracy; second, the eu human rights country strategies for a number of countries; and third, the new european consensus on development – to name a few. the eu has funded a range of development and humanitarian assistance programmes in the area of statelessness. these programmes aim to raise awareness of the issue, assist stateless persons and support governments in addressing the problem. let me give you some concrete examples of our action in south and south east asia. maybe you know that last month i visited myanmar. i met with the authorities and travelled to the troubled northern rakhine state to meet with rohingya representatives and assess the humanitarian situation on the ground. this was the first ever visit by an eu commissioner to that region and the first high-level international visit in general since the violent incidents of october 2016. i announced new humanitarian assistance for the current year 2017, and i stressed the need for full humanitarian access. i also asked for unrestricted access to health, education and other services for the rohingya minority, the largest stateless group in the world. what i stressed to all my myanmar interlocutors is that only steps towards community reconciliation can bring peace and stability. reconciliation is not an easy process – i know this from personal experience as a cypriot – but it is the only way forward. the situation in rakhine state was the focus of the meetings that state counsellor aung san suu kyi had with president tusk, high representative mogherini and me on 2 may in brussels, just before my visit to the country. the plight of the rohingya has been prominently discussed at human rights dialogues with myanmar which the eu special representative for human rights has held since 2014. the eu strategy with myanmar of 2016 also calls on the government of myanmar to address the challenges of rakhine state, including the status of the rohingya. this requires inclusive development in all areas and a political process, including resolving citizenship for stateless persons in a non-discriminatory manner through a transparent, voluntary and accessible procedure. in march 2017, the current year, just three months ago, the eu continued to table a resolution on the human rights situation in myanmar in the eu human rights council, and it was adopted without vote. the eu is a major donor to humanitarian assistance and development cooperation programmes in rakhine state. since 2010, more than eur 76.5 million of humanitarian aid has been allocated to vulnerable people in the region. our current development assistance in rakhine state amounts to eur 25 million, benefitting all communities. the union also provides long-standing and significant support to the rohingya in the refugee camps in bangladesh, with eur 6.3 million in humanitarian aid allocated in 2016 and eur 6 million as the eu’s contribution to unhcr for 2014-2017. their situation is regularly discussed in political dialogues with the government of bangladesh. birth registration was raised at the most recent human rights dialogue with the country, in december 2016, and also featured in the related eu statement which urged bangladesh to provide assistance and protection and not to turn the rohingya back to myanmar. in 2008, the supreme court ended the statelessness of the bihari in bangladesh. the european union aims to reduce inequality and exclusion of all marginalised groups in bangladesh, through its wider public diplomacy and development cooperation efforts. in nepal, the european union, together with other international partners, is exploring sustainable solutions for the bhutanese refugees. we are working with unhcr on an exit strategy for them, while providing protection and multi-sectoral assistance. i would like to thank the house for your attention, your suggestions and your observations, and please remain assured that the european union remains committed to working with partner countries and other international partners towards eliminating statelessness.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 13 june 2017.
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance (rule 163). may i say two things. first of all, the list is rather long so i will strictly apply the time of one minute. secondly, i know that somebody has today proposed the possibility of speaking in his/her language, beyond the scope of the official languages of the european union for which we are equipped here today. that is not possible and we will continue in the official languages of the european union.
mr. chairman, i would like to draw attention to the case of czech war journalist radan šprongl, who was detained at bangkok airport before flying to iraq. this man is facing charges of illegal possession of war material and faces up to five years in prison for carrying a piece of personal protective equipment that serves as a vital safety net for journalists in war zones. besides, this is not the first case of its kind. two journalists from the european union who have already been released were recently arrested for the same reason. thai actions should be of concern to the european union. european diplomacy must show that it does not like this approach and should help journalists in particular to get back to the countries where they can continue to carry out their important function.
mr gambús, i am terribly sorry but there was no english interpretation. i will give you the opportunity to start once again so that colleagues can benefit from the english interpretation. can we try it? could you start again? i apologise once again.
mr gambús, am i right in assuming that you are now speaking in catalan?
then i am afraid i have to apply what i said at the very beginning, which is that president tajani was asked whether it would be possible to speak in any other language than the official languages of the european union, and that is not possible. president tajani refused that option, so you can speak spanish or any other official language, but we do not have interpretation from catalan, so i will have to ask you to refrain from using that language.
fine. please proceed, but there will be no interpretation and therefore limited reception.
mr gambús, just to explain, i was initially informed that president tajani had refused that possibility, but this was then corrected. i apologise, as i did not receive precise information.
mr. chairman, allow me to commemorate a symbolic anniversary. seventy years ago, in june 1947, the so-called marshall plan for the economic recovery of postwar europe was officially announced. why is it good to remember this event? it was an unprecedented act of solidarity by the united states with a europe ravaged by war. the marshall plan was a defining element of strong transatlantic relations during the early cold war. to administer this plan, the so-called organisation for european economic cooperation was created, which later developed into the oecd. the rejection of the marshall plan by the future eastern bloc countries was the symbolic opening of the iron curtain. there are many interesting lessons for today from the marshall plan, from the importance of us-european relations to the importance of european cooperation. this gesture of exceptional solidarity, which has paid off for both continents, needs to be commemorated.
mr president, our european societies, which so much profess freedom as a key value of the democratic rule of law, are threatened by new dangers, hitherto unknown. terrorists who have no demands, no fixed structure, whose only ideology is the utmost evil and waste, deliberately destroy the lives of defenseless victims, using means that we have until now considered to be relatively common consumer goods. there's nothing easier than taking a car and knocking helpless victims to the ground like cones. it's never happened before on this scale. so we're facing a very unusual threat, and we should consider whether the tools we're using to counter this threat are sufficient. i think it is important that we also pay more attention to the homes where radicalized young people - whether islamic fanatics or breivik fanatics - live. we need to ask them to share responsibility, to be obliged to point out the indications that only they can see, in principle, as cohabiting persons, which clearly confirm the radicalization of these people. we also demand accountability from the people who live in such homes.
i understood nearly all of it.
when we joined the eu and brussels imposed quotas on the number of cows, we laughed at it. when we joined the european union and import quotas made bananas more expensive, we shrugged our shoulders. when the eu introduced sugar quotas and we had to close our sugar factories, we were angry. when you introduced the migrant quotas, we started to worry about our own safety and the safety of our children. the european commission is threatening our country today and is asking for fines, sanctions. they say if we take subsidies, we have to take migrants. but we have our own rules for granting asylum and our laws and our constitution take precedence over any decision of the european union. you can threaten us with sanctions, you can take away our subsidies, you can sue us. but safety is our first priority, and we will never trade it for your euro.
that concludes the item. it was one rich in languages and maybe – in a rather narrower format – i could thank you all and thank the commissioner for being with us until this late hour.
for the group gue/ngl energy efficiency is a topic that many people talk about, but it is rare to find someone who has read at least one of the hundreds of scientific papers published on the subject in recent years. as there are many groups of electrical appliances, it is usually very difficult for the lay public to compare the products offered on the market in terms of energy efficiency. the simplest option is probably to label products with a label that indicates to the customer the energy efficiency on a suitably chosen scale. the current labelling is somewhat opaque and therefore the latest regulation proposes to move the whole scale, and thus simply distinguish the different products of a group. a ten-year cycle in which such a change can take place is sufficient, i think. the only disadvantage of this directive is that the change of scale is postponed for several years after the date of the review. this provision significantly undermines the potential impact on the public, which is why the gue/ngl group abstained in the final vote on the proposal.
i am very pleased that we have agreed with the council and the commission on a new energy efficiency labelling and we have agreed that the current system requires a very significant change. i'm glad we're going back to that old a to g scale of measurement and moving away from that a++ system. i think this is a very good step, because it shows that the public, maybe up to 80% of the public, of european citizens, look at the energy label when they buy an appliance. i strongly believe that this will make it easier for consumers to orientate themselves towards energy savings and to distinguish products from one another. this also reduces energy consumption and, with it, the amount that citizens pay for energy. among other things, i also consider it essential that the eu reaffirms that energy efficiency is first, that it is crucial that we continue to stick to the slogan of efficiency first if we want to achieve the savings and targets of the clean energy for all europeans packages.
i was the shadow rapporteur for the opinion of the envi committee on this regulation. a lot of time has passed since then, and i'd almost say the documentary comes a little late. in the light of the slowly winding down of the negotiations on the circular economy package, we should rather already be tackling the revision of the ecodesign rules. the question of its continuity with the energy efficiency directive now under discussion also remains a major issue. however, more generally, i'm quite happy with how the trials negotiations have turned out. the change in the label scale from a to g is a step in the right direction, finally shedding light on the current confusing and often misleading labelling system for consumers. this could bring new energy savings to households, which will certainly be appreciated not only by them, but also by us in the further negotiation of energy efficiency. i also very much welcome the publicly available product database. i believe that only a properly informed consumer, who has a comparison, is capable of changing his behaviour. what has not been entirely successful are the numerous exceptions that delay the process of relabelling certain products. i believe the whole process is taking an unreasonable amount of time.
for the group gue/ngl. allow me to thank my colleague mr gerbrandy in advance, who i think has not given up, even though for a while it seemed that we would not actually find a match. however, we are here today and on the agenda of the plenary session we have a second key document for the fight against climate and greenhouse gas emissions in the eu, which also involves sectors that were previously ignored in a very meaningless way, such as transport, buildings and, above all, agriculture. we've heard nothing from these sectors in the last few years. the effort sharing regulation is the bridge between the eu ets and lulucf documents and other policies. today more than ever, in the light of the regressive and utterly senseless steps of the current us administration, it is important that we approve this regulation in the ambitious and strong version that has passed the envi committee, before the environment council itself. we need to demonstrate our continued commitment to fighting climate change. the negotiations have been difficult, and i can't say i'm completely satisfied with everything that's gone on. i'm particularly unhappy about another newly created allowance reserve or about further interference with an msr that's not even working yet. however, i think we have managed to adopt a document which is ambitious enough. i am glad, for example, that the amendment to include the remaining maritime transport which is not covered by the ets amendment has been adopted. that's why i'd hate to see him de-boned, like what happened a few months ago in the plenary, for example, at ets. i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to give us a strong mandate for the trialogue so that we don't have to go through what we are going through at ets and that we can be who we really want to be. those who want to protect eu citizens want to protect the environment and care about it.
i have supported this report by mr budda because the visibility of cohesion policy and its results is really crucial for our future. i think there is something to be proud of, i.e. despite some errors, it is important to highlight the projects that have been successful and have been selected for support, reduce the gaps in the backwardness of the poorest regions and demonstrate that they are boosting their growth. we need to improve communication, to strengthen it, that is already the content of the report, but also to involve more partners. i think that one of the issues we should address for the future is the possibility of directly in the legislation to reward the project selected with a clear media presentation, so that the eu can boast of a cohesion policy for the future. i think it's something we can't underestimate.
i would just like to say that i voted in favour of this report, as i did in the debate yesterday. i see support for research and innovation as the real keys to our successful future. the eu is not a leader in this field, it is not an agenda in which we are significantly behind, but i think we can move significantly forward. i want to support the proposal that was voted on, that is, the 3% ceiling for that aid, and better preparation of the 9th framework. we are now assessing the 7th framework, but it must be said that the 9th framework is also the biggest challenge for us. at the same time, i would very much like to see programmes such as horizon 2020 and others weakened by instruments that have emerged recently, such as the juncker special fund. i think we should find enough resources and means in other chapters. so, obviously, funding research is our future, and i was happy to support it.
i supported this proposal, which establishes a framework for the indication of energy consumption on energy labels. i believe that this change will make the existing labelling system more transparent and, in particular, improve awareness of the environmental impact of individual products. the key to my vote was that this proposal would lead to greater transparency and also to the comfort of european consumers. i welcome the redesign of the energy label scale which is at the heart of this proposal. the current scale may be misleading to many of us, because of a few a+ grades. as for the new product database, i think it could create a space for better market surveillance, which would also contribute to the confidence of european consumers in this new system.
i did not vote for this report, nor did i support it in the committee on regional development. i perceive that some parts of this report by mrs westphal are decidedly positive. as an example, i can mention that the call for no restrictions on cohesion policy after 2020 is of course very personal to me, or, conversely, further criticism of the gradual destruction of cohesion policy by other instruments such as the juncker investment plan. i agree with all of that, but what i couldn't agree with is the abandonment or some dilution of the gdp criterion as far as the use of that criterion in the allocation of european money is concerned. if this criterion is watered down, for example by the demographic development which the ep is calling for in this report, then i think this is a step in the wrong direction, which will lead to unnecessary discussions at european level and, last but not least, is also contrary to the interests of the czech republic. that is why i did not support this report.
for the group gue/ngl what has been happening in recent years at the european commission and the efsa regarding the authorisation of glyphosate is outrageous. i wouldn't be afraid to use the word farce. the european parliament has given the commission clear instructions on this matter on several occasions, but the commission has clearly not followed them. in the meantime, one scandal after another has leaked out about monsanto and their already proven direct influence on scientific studies of glyphosate. studies that can reasonably be assumed to be used by efsa to support its view of the safety of glyphosate. and yet, even after years of pressure, these studies have not been seen. even the international agency for research on cancer, which has classified glyphosate as a probable carcinogen, is still unavailable. from the leaked communications, it's clear that monsanto also did not shield itself from practices such as writing its own studies, which were then signed off on by only a few scientists, and then publishing them as independent. in addition, for 17 years, the company has suspected that its flagship product is carcinogenic, and it has tried to cover it up so that it is not discovered. and efsa and the commission are still silent. that is why it is again up to the european parliament. unless the european commission urgently investigates how these monsanto practices have affected the efsa's assessment of glyphosate, i would be in favour of setting up a committee of inquiry to look into the matter. commissioner, you don't need 20 minutes to explain yourself. we want one thing from you: real action.
for the sake of clarity, transparency and understanding, i need to say that, due to time constraints, i will not be taking any blue—card questions.
just to treat all the trespasses brought forward by the commission, i'd need five minutes. the commission received 20, was entitled to 3. just to be clear, the parliamentary resolution called for a maximum authorisation of 7 years, not 7 years, with a set of restrictions that would actually ensure maximum security, and the commission basically did not respect that. that's a little different from what the commissioner said here. i filed that objection myself, so i remember it very well. i filed it against the commission's proposal to authorize glyphosate for 15 years. but there is one thing the commission simply cannot deny, and that is that the monsanto papers scandal has simply called into question the credibility of research funded by industry, which is financially interested in that research, is interested in the outcome of that research, and has thereby quite clearly called into question our own european authorisation system, which is also dependent on those studies. we know why there is such a disagreement between efsa and iarc, and the iarc's tabloid dehonestation that we heard from the commission here, which sounds like a quote from the glyphosate manufacturer's website, is not going to change that at all. we know that. iarc and the agencies use different statistical procedures, but mainly they use different data sets. iarc uses publicly available academic research, and our agencies unfortunately use industry-funded work. that's the difference, that's why the result is different. so in no way can anyone say with a clear conscience that glyphosate is safe, or even that all the proper procedures were followed when it was approved. i must say very clearly that after the commission's speech today, i am absolutely convinced that we must establish a parliamentary committee of inquiry, not only on glyphosate, but also on the whole process of authorizing pesticides.
i agree with all my previous speakers in terms of assessing the international situation in the area of freedom of speech, but i think we should also sweep the so-called "sweep" before our own doorstep. the situation in europe is deteriorating, and i agree with mrs macovei who has said this. in the czech republic, we are witnessing a kind of concentration of economic, political and media power. so not only in the czech republic, but in our country, the conflict of interest law has solved this, which prohibits the ownership of these defined instruments, which are important in a democratic society, but concentration in one hand can actually be potentially very dangerous. i think we should also do this in the eu, because freedom of expression is the absolute basis of our european values and we should also ensure that it is well developed in the future.
for the group gue/ngl. the serbian state has always been a central part of the balkans. for centuries, the serbs faced attacks by the turks and attempts to eradicate their independence. austria-hungary was not interested in good neighborly relations either. yugoslavia became an attempt to promote peaceful coexistence and development among all the intertwined peoples of the balkans. the bloody retaliation that the serbs received in the early 1990s, followed by the secession of individual parts and, finally, the illegal creation of the state of kosovo, shows the effort to break up the entire central part of the balkans into as few units as possible. the bombing has shown that nato is not and will never be a guarantor of peace. the hypocrisy of eu leaders is shown, among other things, in paragraphs 24 and 30 of the report under discussion. how can those who do not see the trampling on of minority rights in many eu countries dare to call on serbia to thoroughly discuss legislation to protect minorities? another example is the call for the serbian authorities to support constitutional reforms in bosnia and herzegovina. i don't understand why the report doesn't address a similar appeal to supporters of the serbo-croatian muslim part of the country. the culmination of these demands, by the way, formulated by the same forces that cancelled the plan of bulgaria and serbia to build the southstream pipeline, is the emphasis that 'serbia must develop its gas and electricity interconnections with neighbouring countries'. it is not surprising that, in view of these and other steps by the european commission to try to interfere in the internal affairs of serbia, i consider this report to be one of the highest levels of hypocrisy in the eu integration process of the balkan countries to date. the gue/ngl group... (the president withdrew the floor.)
in writing. the whole report is marked by the legitimate efforts of serbia to not recognise the unilateral secession of kosovo. this is the logical consequence of the actions of serbia criticised in the report. in particular, it prevents participation in the work of international organisations and the interconnection of energy networks. the report finds that 90% of the population is worried about unemployment, while the government is not doing much to support small and medium-sized enterprises. the author of the report, in her boldness, believes in paragraph 8 that it is important that kosovo's security policy is in line with the eu's common foreign and security policy. the experts preparing the report seem to have a patent on intelligence. the report criticises serbia's steps towards the prosecution of war criminals, but also calls for the investigation and prosecution of war crimes. concerned about the lack of protection of freedom of expression and freedom of the media as well as the deep-rooted corruption, the existence of armed groups involved in organised crime with a cross-border dimension of activities. practically no confiscation of property, no re-establishment of assets derived from criminal activity. the lack of an effective strategy to track and prosecute returning foreign fighters is another argument for the virtual absence of a consolidated state. the report calls for a solution to guarantee the return and reintegration of displaced persons, including respect for the civil liberties of all communities. with the last election in kosovo won by the combined forces of the kla, i see little hope of improving the situation here.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, and in particular, madam president, thank you for coming and thank you for your words. donald trump has decided to withdraw from the paris climate agreement. apparently, he would like to go back to the middle ages, where the denial of scientifically verifiable facts was the order of the day. unfortunately, despite all his tweets, climate change is unstoppable. as we heard today, entire nations and states are threatened by this process, which brings with it rising sea levels and crushing droughts. climate change, also caused by humans, may in the years ahead cause a wave of migration of such proportions that the current crisis will be a trifle in comparison. what mr. trump intends to do with all of this, he hasn't said. apparently, he would have been perfectly suited to the role of unlimited ruler of the wasteland. the consequences of the wasteful use of resources and the neglect of the environment are shown daily by the situation with palm oil in indonesia. today more than ever, we must show the world our unity, our determination and the right path.
let me explain why i supported the ep's opinion on the draft regulation on the binding annual reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the final vote. i think it's an important signal to the ep just as donald trump has announced the withdrawal of the united states from the paris agreement. this legislation is based mainly on the methodology and principles set out in a previous council decision, as well as on the experience gained in the past. this also involves some administrative simplification and increased flexibility. i voted for the amendment so that the 2018 baseline for emissions reductions is not the ep's proposal. the european commission's original proposal was for 2021. i agree with the reservations raised by my irish colleagues here, but this decision can be overturned by the council and i hope it will be.
i think that alongside the criticism of serbia, we should also appreciate its tremendous efforts and progress towards democratization. we should appreciate his approach to the migration crisis, for example, where serbia was a valid member and tried to do its best to try to provide for the people who flowed through it, such as basic health care, hygiene, housing or food. we should also appreciate serbia, which is trying to accommodate the various minorities. you have already mentioned the hungarian minority, but i can mention the czech minority, and the czech minority has not felt oppressed in serbia for a long time. serbia allows czech radio, it allows czech, and i think serbia has stepped into the eu, and i believe the eu will be very accommodating to serbia.
i voted for this report, but of course my position on the kosovo government, which is very critical, remains. unfortunately, kosovo has not been able to convince us, and is not convincing us, that it can fight organized crime, that freedom of speech and not persecuting journalists is something that the government there, past and future, sees as one of its top priorities. i think that we in the eu need to be very critical of this. the european commission recently said it would allow kosovo citizens to travel to the eu without a visa. we should say yes, we will allow, but only after the kosovo government and kosovo have implemented certain reforms. and unfortunately, the strength and the willingness on the part of kosovo is very small.
i supported this report, unlike my greek colleague, because i see the enormous progress that this former yugoslav republic has made in recent years. i understand greece's position and i understand what it has been saying for a long time, but we cannot block and continue to simply not have a dialogue about the fact that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia should be part of the eu and that there is a need to support this country in some way, whether politically or through membership promises, in its democratic process. i think that even in areas where the eu had quite a few reservations, such as in the area of migration, it was macedonia that showed that it was a valid and cooperative member of the european community.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i do not mean to import maltese internal politics here but i was a member of the former touch 1 and touch 2 committees, now i am a co-rapporteur on the pana committee and therefore i have some issues to raise. the pana committee had a mission to malta and many intermediaries named in the panama papers are based in malta; and also their possible ties to politically exposed persons there are very worrying. on the face of it, it seems eu law has somehow been implemented but its enforcement, strong and independent institutions including the financial intelligence unit, and more generally the rule of law, are questionable. in brussels it seems malta is fighting eu efforts to move towards more transparency, be it within the anti-money laundering directive, country by country reporting, or a common consolidated corporate tax base. this cannot imply anything other than it has a lot to hide. it has nothing to do with the size of the country, but i am glad that the eu was reformed in the way that it now has a permanent president of the european council. i am afraid that if you, prime minister, presided over the european council now it would weaken the standing of the european union.
the european fund for strategic investments has been around for 1.5 years and yet it can be said to be successful in at least some regional areas. in a way, we can already see his flaws. the predecessors have made a number of specific suggestions for improving it. i would point out the need for greater transparency, better targeting of the fund and also better governance. there's some confusion about conflict of interest in the governing bodies, and that's very bad. there's been a lot of talk about regional disparity. i would even say that it is marginalisation, if 13 countries only receive 9% of the total fund, then i would say that it is directly marginalisation of certain areas. i have looked at the situation in the czech republic, where the guarantees of two banks for small and medium-sized enterprises are being extended. i think the conclusion is clear. it's good not just to keep going, but to improve.
one third of children in europe are at risk of poverty. how does child poverty come about? it is mostly poor children who become poor parents, and so the cure for this reproduction of poverty is first and foremost an affordable and quality education for all children and also the support of their families. it is for the member states to decide. we in the ep can call them out, and it is also right that the eu calls on member states to do something about child poverty. it is in their interest to support families with children, especially through employment, wage growth, decent housing, tax breaks and the appreciation of parents who care for children. ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that it is not just material poverty, but also emotional poverty. i know children who are poor, but they are happy with loving parents who care for them. i know children who, despite their wealth, are unhappy and unsuccessful. without the loving and wise training of parents, children will not be happy.
unfortunately, those most at risk of poverty are those who have the least influence on their status - children and adolescents. if a child is born into an environment that often lacks even the basic conditions for life, let alone for learning, it will be much harder for him to do better in school, to continue his education, and perhaps to get a better-paying job. parental education and their position in the labour market are among the main causes of child poverty. the result is a vicious circle, where poverty is, unfortunately, inherited and very difficult to break out of. we should therefore not only take measures to reduce child poverty, but also focus on the situation of their parents. it's very important to support children's education, but it's equally important to support their parents' employment, supplies, for a decent wage. there are many families where a fall into poverty can only cause one unexpectedly large family expense. improving the living conditions of entire families can thus reduce the number of children at risk of poverty.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the collaborative economy is a good thing. it is good for consumers, it is good for growth and jobs, and it is good for the environment. the collaborative economy will be worth more than eur 85 billion to europe by 2025: this is only eight years away. this is to prove that, if we empower consumers, it is to benefit all of us. i believe this is a message supported by the majority in this house, but for this to work, we need to focus on removing hurdles and creating a business-friendly environment. my group has great concerns about the lack of clarity about applicable rules, but we are even more worried by the risk of market fragmentation when we see protectionist measures and anti-single market policies adopted in some member states and by some individual cities. so we call on the commission to ensure that both the member states and regional and local authorities respect the rules set down in the service directive, including market access rules. the time has come to embrace the digital revolution. we should not attempt to protect traditional service providers from this transformation, and instead should let competition force them to modernise. if we do not embrace this fact, not only will we be holding back europe, we will be keeping our citizens from a world of better service, lower prices and more choice. so let us have the courage to give consumers what they want, and say ‘no’ to those self-interested groups that try to stand in the way.
i have to say that i am very concerned about the impending censorship of the internet. this report on the digital marketplace calls on facebook to step up its fight against harmful content. the eu is called upon to take action against the spread of fake news. it is intended to combat the spread of hate speech online. you recently prosecuted marine le pen for her alleged crime of sharing photos on facebook showing the crimes of the islamic state, and today you prosecuted her father for saying in a radio interview that 90 percent of crimes are committed by migrants or descendants of migrants. please remember voltaire, who said, "i disagree with what you say, but i will defend to the death your right to say it". don't take away people's freedom of speech, don't try to regulate the internet. it's a place where, at least in my country, the czech republic, people are still allowed to express their opinions freely.
the regulation of online platforms by private companies with global reach and economic and political influence is an extremely complex problem that our society will have to face for years to come, as the report by colleagues virkkunen and juvin makes clear. the spread of fake news and hate speech, the development of digital propaganda, and the simultaneous economic losses to journalists and other creators of cultural and creative content, show that these issues need to be addressed. i therefore welcome the proposal for an audiovisual services directive which also covers video-sharing platforms, requiring platforms to remove harmful content quickly. young people today watch half as much tv as their parents did. therefore, the requirements applicable to traditional television broadcasting should be extended to digital platforms. in the future, i would also welcome the european commission to prepare specific guidelines for the identification and removal of harmful content.
i agree with what was said here about the digital economy, that it's a huge opportunity for the future. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. i know that some of that legislation actually goes back two decades, so it's pretty old in the digital age, it's like 200 years old. on the other hand, i am afraid that we will really consider carefully what specific provisions we will try to incorporate into that legislation, i.e. what specific obligations. as far as copyright is concerned, i would stress that we should focus on the possibility of settling rights for the whole of the internal market, but we should not interfere too much with the content itself. with digital media, print media, that's actually impossible. i am strongly opposed to the same obligations as those of the terrestrial media.
the report by mr danti is the first step towards a comprehensive and balanced eu strategy on the sharing economy. the responsible development of the sharing economy can bring a number of benefits to citizens and consumers. at the same time, there is no doubt that the sharing economy can have a significant impact on established business models in many regulated sectors such as transport and accommodation. businesses, consumers and even regulators are often not clear today on how to apply existing legislation in some areas. it is therefore necessary to address regulatory grey areas, prevent tax avoidance and ensure a high level of consumer protection. i also support proposals to strengthen the social aspects of the issue, including worker protection, social security or calls for closer involvement of the social partners.
i would like to support my colleagues in calling for the suspension of the commission's proceedings. it is, i would say, beyond any doubt that in the context of transparency it would be appropriate to first work with data that is complex, as my speaker said. i would also like to draw attention to the importance of this inland waterway, because that has not been discussed here. i am convinced that the importance of these national or inland ports should not be overlooked. i know that there is a limit of 50 million euros for their support. in my view, this limit is insufficient. he was the one who was supposed to help move the cargo to the waterways where it was needed. i would therefore urge that we should be able to push that limit even further, and secondly that we should thereby contribute to environmental considerations and our responsibility towards climate change, while promoting inland navigation.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i speak as a leader of one of those european political parties, the alliance of european conservatives and reformists, whose group here in the european parliament is the third largest, the ecr group. i can say that we support some of the new provisions being debated, for instance a reduction in the 15% co-financing obligation, or limiting contributions, or raising the requirement to be represented by three or five meps. however, there is one concern, namely that closer scrutiny, to determine whether european political parties respect the fundamental values of the eu, might be misused for a political fight and possibly to make an argument against those parties that do not share the federalist orthodoxy. i can tell you that we have very recently experienced some strange behaviour from the ep administration which might strengthen that feeling. i hope that this will not happen and that, once the provision has been adopted, everything will be ok, transparent, objective and fair.
i shall speak mainly of the proportion of funds that political parties are obliged to generate and thus contribute to the financing of their budget. as far as we are concerned with the effective functioning of european political parties and increasing their ability to contribute to the promotion of european values, we should think realistically and reduce the current 15% commitment to half. 7.5% is a realistic figure which allows the really important aspects of the activities of political parties in the public sphere to be addressed. i consider the proposal to increase the number of meps a political party must have in order to be able to receive funding from the eu budget to be equally essential. the danger of misuse of the existing arrangements, which only concern one member, is unfortunately too great at the moment and we should respond to it and consequently protect the resources of the european taxpayers.
i'd like to bring up the following. in my opinion, it's too late for a drastic change, but i'd be happy to be wrong. i would like to draw attention to two aspects which i consider to be very important. mrs bresso said here what i very much like, that european democracy needs democrats. i sometimes can't bear to look at the militant speeches being made here against the eu, against women. of course, full sharing of values cannot be prescribed, but i find it absolutely absurd that eu money is used to pay parties whose aim is to break up the eu. i really can't understand that, or explain it to my constituents. the second point concerns the funding of national political parties. under the candle is the greatest darkness and it is absolutely clear for many, maybe up to a dozen parties that they are paid from russian sources, and this thing, the funding of national political parties that send their representatives here, we leave completely unnoticed. in my opinion, it's punishable.
in a globalised world, it is very important to maintain the competitiveness of our industry. the eu needs a strategic approach to industrial policy and in this sense we are also interested in what the european commission has achieved and is working on. but above all, the eu needs a sensible approach in the wider context of european policies. with ever-increasing restrictions, whether based on emission reductions and other standards or social protection regulations, fixed costs are of course increasing compared to countries where the rules are not as strict as in the eu. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. harnessing the huge potential in digital technologies, chemical research, high-tech engineering, nanotechnology and space technology offers hope for future industrial growth in eu member states.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, we all agree on the substance of the evaluation, so where we differ on is what the best approach is in order to release mr mukhtarli. now the question is […] colleagues, i listened to you; mr bütikofer, it is not easy if you are shouting a few metres away from me. i do apologise, madam president. once again, we differ on how to proceed, and what the best tactics are. if we were dealing with a different government with a different regime, i could understand the appeal of mr hahn, but the abduction happened a few days after a european parliament high—ranking delegation spoke for an hour and a half with the president of the country, mr aliyev – so that is the message. the other message would be that if we postpone it today and mr hahn goes, what is the message that we are sending? for the first time, we have postponed an urgency resolution, and we are not united. i disagree with mr hahn, because i think that he can go to baku and have behind him a resolution which puts pressure on him. for me, in that current situation with this regime, with the disrespect to parliament that mr aliyev has shown, it is the only possible way.
i very much appreciate the ep's systematic attention to the respect of human rights in the eastern partnership countries. this resolution is in response to specific information about the abduction of afghan mukhtarli from tbilisi to baku, where he is being held. the real reason for his imprisonment is that he worked for the independent media radio free europe and is known as a critic of the azerbaijani regime. unfortunately, there are more such political prisoners in azerbaijan and our resolution mentions them, lists them all. the ep calls for their release, including the journalists. this latest case of a journalist being arrested strongly resembles the dictatorial practices we know well from communist regimes. the european parliament has called on the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's new constitution is fully implemented. i particularly appreciate the political consensus on this resolution.
we have already discussed the situation in pakistan here several times. we have always had to say that the protection of human rights in pakistan is in a very bad state and their defenders face persecution, unfair trials or are even killed or disappear. the much-criticized resumption of the death penalty is ongoing, as is the blasphemy law, whose victim is also the 7 year old asia bibi, who is sentenced to death. we've also intervened on her behalf on several occasions. last time i asked for a five-year action plan with pakistan to be suspended unless asia bibi is released. an evaluation of the plan was held in november and it appears that it will continue despite the fact that human rights in pakistan are still being trampled and even efforts are being made to dissolve ngos. so i ask again, until asia bibi is released, until there is a moratorium on reinstating the death penalty, do not re-concluded this action plan with pakistan.
i am not generally in favour of the eu exporting its entire catalogue of rights. our conception of the charter is quite broad and i think it is intended for our space, but as far as the death penalty is concerned, it belongs to the iron foundation of the catalogue of human rights and it is really unacceptable. i think we should insist on the moratorium that has been in place until recently, and if our policy is to be effective and not to be toothless, then pakistan really should respond to our fundamental remarks. so i would very much like to see the commission's work to push through both a moratorium on the death penalty and, of course, the repeal of the blasphemy law or its most pressing parts. it would also be good for each of us to respond in our own way to this situation, i.e. not to buy goods that simply come from these areas where human rights are being violated in a fundamental way, in the context of fair trade. it's also about each of us, our personal approach.
for the ppe group. although indonesia is a muslim country, six different religions, including christianity, are officially represented. although there was a lot of talk about human rights, there was little talk about indonesia being seen as a country where religious freedom is guaranteed in a stable way. unfortunately, in recent months we have seen that these smaller religions have been the target of various crimes. representatives of these religious minorities, especially christians, are brutally attacked. all this is happening despite indonesia's commitment to the same values as the eu, namely human rights and democracy. this requires the eu high representative to speak out against these practices and to call on indonesia to correct them. i would not like indonesia to be put on the list of countries that cannot be partners with the eu because they have deviated from our values.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, for the last week, the world has been retweeting this photo of indonesian football players: all praying together in harmony. a hindu, a christian and a muslim – a sign of unity and tolerance. the indonesian government would do well by following this example. unfortunately, there are still many serious human rights abuses which involved the recent spike in the intolerance, harassment and violence towards various minority groups in indonesia. the verbal attacks and acts against other religions, such as convicting and jailing the christian governor of jakarta for blasphemy, must stop. the cruel punishment of sexual minorities through sharia law by regional governments must stop. the government must put an end to discrimination by condemning and investigating all verbal and physical attacks on minority groups. blasphemy laws must be urgently revised. given our even closer partnership, the eu should actively help indonesia to fulfil its human rights obligations.
indonesia is a democratic country, yet a country where intolerance is on the rise. although this country has made undeniable progress in economic development, in ensuring, say, social security for its citizens, in terms of religious freedom, violence against women or even sexual minorities, the situation is developing really badly, tragically. a few dozen punishments for people who have a private relationship with another person of the same sex, i think is completely unacceptable. i can understand if the state regulates some public speech, but if someone in the private sphere lives their own life, whether religious or sexual, then i think that should remain in their freedom, and we should definitely speak out against such punishment.
madam president, in fact we had a debate today in the plenary, and it was consensual in terms of the assessment of the situation; there was not a single voice that would evaluate the abduction in a different way. so the question is, what is the best tactic? some of the colleagues have proposed postponement for one reason, and that is that commissioner hahn will have an opportunity, travelling to baku, to raise the issue – or he has already travelled – but the point is, we have considered this an urgency and all political groups have agreed. everyone knows, including the person detained, as well as the azerbaijani government, that we are discussing and eventually postponing it on the request of mr hahn, for the reason that he would like to be in a better position. that is not correct. my assessment is different. if we postpone it, that basically means that we accept the disrespect of president aliyev in that a few days before the abduction he received for an hour and a half an ep high ranking delegation discussing human rights, and then this is done. i do not believe that that will achieve the goal. a final remark – what will achieve the goal is if the commissioner has in hand a well—balanced wording of a resolution that will help to strengthen his position in order to release the gentleman.
i have today supported the ep resolution on the funding of political parties and foundations at european level. i think we need more transparency. european democracy needs democrats, free and responsible citizens, because only then will it be viable. i think it's a mistake to think that the current system of funding political parties is parasitic. this system is parasitized by groups promoting an anti-european agenda. that is why we have today also called on the commission to review the existing regulation as soon as possible and to submit a revision of it which will be against the misuse of public funds. i personally support in particular transparency in the adjustment of funding conditions, the raising of the mandatory limit of meps' membership of a european political party from one to at least three meps and i call for clear political affiliation of meps.
the question posed by the blue card. i was rather provoked by the speech of the honourable member, it was interesting in many respects, but i would like to ask the honourable member whether, given her political affiliation, the speech means that she wants matters relating to the family to be regulated or regulated from a european level. i understand that you are in fact trying to enter, in my view, into the rather peculiar position of the eu member states.
i think we all recognize the primary role of parents in raising children. parents have and must continue to have the freedom of choice and the responsibility for the upbringing and education of their children. we want parents to be partners for the school. we all drew attention to the risk of poverty, which still affects almost one third of children in europe today. among the most vulnerable are those who live with a single parent or even without a stable family background. despite the reduction in the average rate of incomplete secondary education, more than 10% of children still do not complete their education and are at risk of failure in life. the role of parents and grandparents is unquestionable. the same is true of the unquestioned competence of the member states in family and education policy. the eu should help them in this mission. europe's society is aging and will continue to age unless we realise that a child is an investment. that is why we should highlight parenting as the most important human work that we value and that we must also value financially. i appeal to the commission and to the member states. let's create conditions for parents to be able and willing to have and raise children. it's the best investment in our future.
i would just like to say at the outset that i also volunteered for the catch-the-eye on the previous point and only two colleagues from the other group were given the floor. i'm not complaining, i just want to take this as a catch-the-eye at this point where i would like to make a speech and comment on this issue as well. i would like to thank mr maltes for bringing this point forward. to the hurtful example he gave, i would add one more. in the czech republic, the existence of a game for young children, teenagers and young people, called blue whale, which was intended to force them to commit suicide, was actually verified by the police. this absolutely shocking example only proves how necessary it is to actually regulate the content of this information, which is distributed in a completely opaque way in the digital age and has a free internet to do so. i know it's very difficult to interfere with the freedom of the internet. that's always the critical moment. on the other hand, when we consider such vulnerable groups of children and adolescents, i think we should proceed as the commissioner has suggested. finding that balance is very important.
media, the internet, child protection -- these are the issues that we consider to be fundamental, and i look at where the colleagues are who have called for fundamental parental responsibility. sure, the responsibility of parents to protect their children is their priority, but i think if the internet knows no boundaries, we also have to ask what the legislative conditions are. i believe that the mandatory removal of illegal content is not censorship. i think it's a betrayal of the trust of children who are vulnerable. the internet, as i said, has no borders and therefore belongs to the ep, and i thank the commissioner for mentioning the audiovisual directive which is in the legislative process and which introduces the responsibility of internet platform providers to remove harmful illegal content. i think that's a very important measure that we have to take.
i would like to add to what mrs. šojdrowa said. indeed, the role of parents is very important, and we should all recognize this, and in this sense we should support the family and the parents. i also want to comment on the previous serious interpellation. unfortunately, in my opinion, there's an indirect ratio. the more we talk about real support for families, the less real support families get. i am aware that this is primarily the responsibility of the member states. of course we have to talk about it. i am glad that this week's debate has brought up issues such as equal pay for equal work, but also the issue of pensions, which i believe should be based on the principle of merit. those who raise children who are then contributors to the system from which pensions are drawn should also be rewarded for their merits by not receiving less pension.
member of the commission. – mr president, first i want to thank ms mizzi for her report on european standardisation. this is an important document; important for us, important for the european standardisation community. it sets out a balanced view on several questions on the european standardisation system and as i can see from it, we agree on the fundamental principles in the area. just one sentence: over the past 30 years european standards have delivered great benefits for companies, for consumers. they have been based on a unique partnership between european legislators, standard—setting bodies, industry workers and of course civil society groups. at the heart of the partnership has been a voluntary, demand-led and consensus-driven approach but the standardisation system now, of course, faces a number of challenges: the increasing speed of change in the global economy, the growing role of ict and the increasing importance of services, to name just a few of them. so last year we set out a new direction in this area, calling for a system that is agile and that is timely. at its heart we launched a joint initiative on standardisation. we want a system that is both inclusive and collaborative, a system that taps the potential of ict and services and, above all, a system that can set priorities and deliver results. i am pleased to see that the report recognises the importance of standardisation and welcomes at the same time the joint initiative. the report will fit into our annual union work programme on european standardisation for next year, which is currently under discussion. the upcoming interinstitutional dialogue early next year will also be an opportunity to further discuss the topics of mutual interest. as i cannot, as you understand, now comment on the whole report, i will focus on four key aspects that the rapporteur also mentioned, the importance of inclusiveness, transparency, ict standardisation and standard essential practices. let me start with inclusiveness. standards, as was said, affect everybody so everybody should have the possibility to have their opinion heard and taken into account when standards are prepared. the report acknowledges that the 2012 regulation on standardisation has made improvements here so we will continue in this direction. we have asked the european standardisation organisations – the european committee for standardization (cen), the european committee for electrotechnical standardization (cenelec), and the european telecommunications standards institute (etsi) – as well as all national standardisation bodies to intensify their cooperation with stakeholders. we are asking them to adapt their internal rules and their internal procedures to help the work of stakeholders’ organisations. in the joint initiative there are three actions focused on inclusiveness. they target inclusiveness at national, european and international level. work on this has started and is progressing smoothly so far. second, on transparency, i agree with the report that we need to increase the transparency, accountability and timelines of the standardisation system. i know the report called us to address the reasons behind the decreasing citation of references of harmonised standards in the official journal. we are working closely with the standardisation organisations to find practical and durable solutions. third, on ict standardisation. most people know how frustrating it is and can be to buy digital technology only to find that it cannot connect to other devices. ict standards ensure that these devices work together seamlessly. last year we adopted a strategic and political plan on ict standardisation priorities. it is focused on five key areas: 5g, the internet of things, cloud computing, cyber security and data technologies. we are working closely together with the standardisation community to implement the actions in the time frame indicated. success depends on high level commitment from a broad stakeholder base. this includes member states, industry of course, standard—setting organisations and the research community. finally, my last point, i agree that we need to ensure that industry can rely on an effective licencing system. we need a balanced licencing system for technologies endorsed in standards, in other words, standard essential patents. this system should provide for growth and efficient access to these technologies while at the same time ensuring that there are adequate incentives for research, development and innovation. we are currently working on how to improve the licencing environment and provide clarity on an sep licencing environment and fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory practices. once again let me thank the honourable member for such an excellent report. i hope i can count on your continued support and engagement in the coming years on this very important issue.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. – mr president, first of all i would like to say that i appreciate the work of the rapporteur, especially her sound focus on the transport sector. the question of standardisation is, in fact, absolutely key if we want to achieve a modern, interoperable, single european transport area. the problem is that one of the failures of the internal market is that we have not managed to confront the fragmentation of that market, with different national standards, so our companies, whether in the logistics or freight sectors, often have to cope with different national documents each time they cross a border. at a time when the transport sector is cutting down emissions and becoming much more digitalised and intermodal, at a time when the commission has put forward the mobility package, we definitely need an interoperable, free-flow-of-data sector which will provide for the uptake of new technologies, like, for example, electric vehicles. we see too that standards now encompass the ict standards, and this is an absolutely key area, and one in which we would like to encourage our citizens, too, to go intermodal – to use something that is called integrated ticketing. one final remark: i would expect the commission to see this as an external plea to provide, in its proposals, for intermodal interaction based on free flow of data and everything that comes with it.
mr president, common standards are an important tool for the functioning of the single market. the maintenance and further development of the european standardisation system is becoming increasingly important with the growing influence of information and communication technologies, with the need to place increasing emphasis on ensuring their interoperability. european standards must be developed in a transparent environment and in an inclusive manner. i welcome the fact that the rapporteur, in stressing the proper involvement of the various interest groups in the standardisation process, has also mentioned consumer organisations and organisations representing disabled people. i also agree with the rapporteur that standards, as a voluntary market-driven instrument setting technical requirements and guidelines, cannot replace political decisions. policy decisions concerning, for example, the level of protection of health, safety or the environment should continue to be left to the legislator. i therefore support the report by my colleague marlene mizzi and i would also like to thank her for the work she has done on it.
the author. mr president, in 2015, almost 30 000 newly diagnosed hiv infections were reported in 31 countries of the european union and the european economic area. at the same time, it is estimated that 120 000 people in the european region have developed multidrug-resistant tuberculosis, and viral hepatitis is generally considered to be one of the most serious threats to public health. these three diseases require long-term and sustained programmes often targeting multiple population groups simultaneously. if prevention services were integrated, synergies and savings could be achieved. the current eu action plan on hiv/aids expired at the end of 2016. the ecdc framework action plan for the fight against tuberculosis in the european union dates from 2008 and needs to be updated. to date, there is no comprehensive plan to combat hepatitis c at the level of the european union. at the informal meeting of the european union ministers of health in bratislava on 4 october 2016, member states agreed to support the development of a framework for an integrated european union policy on hiv/aids, tuberculosis and hepatitis c. this policy should be appropriate to the specific nature of the epidemics in the european union and neighbouring countries in order to strengthen the political response to these diseases. in its communication 'next steps towards a sustainable european future', the commission underlined its continued commitment to eradicate hiv/aids and tuberculosis and to reduce hepatitis by 2030. we have therefore asked and continue to ask: what concrete steps does the commission intend to take to fulfil its commitment to the sustainable development goal 3 ensuring healthy lives and promoting good living conditions for all people of all ages in the aforementioned communication? secondly, how does the commission's plan respond to the bratislava agreement between eu health ministers of 4 october on the development of a policy framework on hiv/aids and hepatitis c? and thirdly, how does the commission intend to increase funding for the fight against tuberculosis in the developing countries of the eu by providing financial assistance to member states to cover part of the high costs of tuberculosis treatment? mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, how many times have we been dealing with this matter here? frankly, your inaction on this matter is becoming unacceptable. in 2015, i called on you to develop a new strategy to combat these diseases for 2014-2020. i myself have written several questions to the commission on this subject. what have we got so far? i didn't do anything at all. always with the evasive words and the promises that were not kept. not to mention the ridiculous answers to my written questions. we have already asked the three dutch, slovak and maltese presidencies to resolve the situation. we are now entering the fourth presidency and the solution is nowhere. meanwhile, the situation has gotten much worse, and we've lost strategies that were in place two years ago. not only are we seeing a deterioration of the situation outside the european union, but a catastrophic situation is beginning to emerge, for example, with hiv in the immediate vicinity. the annual epidemiological reports of our agency, ecdc, on cross-border threats of disease are compelling evidence of this. the member states themselves have understood that we urgently need an updated eu framework policy on hiv, tb and hepatitis c for the period 2016-2020, addressing the specific nature of the epidemic not only in the european union but also in the eastern partnership countries in particular. but 8 months have passed since the informal meeting in bratislava in october 2016! when will the commission finally understand that combating these three diseases requires a comprehensive strategy that focuses on the various overlapping population groups, including the poorest? in addition, the first who global health strategy against viral hepatitis (2016-2021), adopted by the world health assembly in may 2016, emphasises the key role of universal health care and its goal, consistent with the sustainable development goals, to reduce by 90% by 2030 the number of new cases of viral hepatitis and ultimately to eradicate viral hepatitis as a public health problem. it will be very difficult for the commission to monitor progress towards the sdgs in the case of viral hepatitis in general, as surveillance data on this disease in the member states are often missing or insufficient. the approach to combating viral hepatitis at eu level remains inconsistent and is being addressed on a state-by-state basis. the commission's reaction is unfortunately no. these diseases are relatively easy to prevent, but when they do occur, they are very difficult to treat. by not doing that, we're losing billions of euros from health and social care in the follow-up to their chronic phase. and it is imperative that we work together at transnational and interdisciplinary levels to tackle these epidemics. and that's what we're calling you to do.
madam president, the motion for a resolution on extending the life of products contains a number of proposals which respond to consumers' experience of the quality and life of products. i think i am among the 90% of eu citizens who would welcome a lifespan on products. also among the 77% of eu citizens who prefer repair over purchase. it's about saving our wallets and saving the environment, which sometimes goes against the interests of the manufacturers. the european parliament therefore asks the commission to focus on concrete measures, the introduction of a voluntary european label covering durability, ecodesign, upgradeability and repairability of the product. to enable the development of a wear counter, especially for large electrical appliances. measures against planned obsolescence of products and protection of consumers against obsolescence of software. i would point out that these proposals must not be seen as increasing regulation against smes, but rather as supporting them.
madam president, consumer confidence in the durability of products is dropping dramatically. in fact, consumers are increasingly convinced that products are deliberately designed to be unreliable. many european customers would prefer to have their goods repaired rather than buy new ones, but end up having to replace or discard goods because of the discouraging cost of repair. last but not least, people today have minimal information about the durability of products. the most vulnerable victims of accelerated product obsolescence are the poorest citizens, who, for financial reasons, prefer low-cost products that break down more quickly. the report identifies concrete measures that can contribute to the longer life of products, to a reduction in their environmental impact and to lower costs for users, thus to the development of a sustainable economic model based on balancing the needs of consumers and traders with positive environmental impacts.
mr president, i would like to thank my colleague, mr predo, for his report, on which i would like to make a few comments on the present situation. this weekend, the syrian government denied the opcw report on the april attack in khan sheikhun that killed 80 people, a report that said the attack was carried out with the deadly nerve agent sarin. according to the syrian foreign ministry, the report lacks any credibility and is the product of a sick mind. russia also called the report doctored. i would like to condemn in the strongest terms this refusal to accept a professional and impartial report, and i would remind you that russia and china have vetoed the referral to the international criminal court of the crimes against humanity committed in the syrian territories at the un security council. we know that this gas was used, and now the court should investigate the attacks. i also want to remind you that it is religious and ethnic minorities who are most often exposed to crimes against humanity, and we cannot remain silent about them.
mr president, i am of course convinced that war crimes and crimes against humanity, including genocide, deserve to be debated. i'm sorry it didn't come to that. i would like to commend the report presented by mr preda and at the same time to highlight the question of prevention and cooperation which is essential to tackling these crucial issues. i would like to emphasize one legal aspect. in my opinion, it is important to promote a universal view of the impunity of these war crimes worldwide. this means that there really is no so-called "cave" in which the criminals who commit these war crimes can hide. it is important precisely because these criminals will then have no security for the rest of their lives, and our security may well be that the international community will condemn these crimes one day, if not now, then in a few years' time.
mr president, i of course recognize that private security agencies and services can also play a part in ensuring security in defined roles. and i also recognize that there is good cooperation with them in a number of countries, but i do not share the call for new guidelines even on this issue, because i believe that private security services should have the same rights as any other person who finds himself in a certain situation where he has the opportunity to act against a crime committed. but they can't have more rights than ordinary private citizens, private individuals. i think that outsourcing services, as the rapporteur said at the end of her speech, is definitely negative in the area of security services and we should find appropriate recommendations for this. as for the recommendations that the commission would adopt, i would like to support this.
mr president, this report responds to the increase in the number of different forms of employment in the european union, which it calls precarious. between 2008 and 2016, the number of part-time jobs grew much faster than full-time jobs, by 11%. the report defines the concepts of decent work and precarious employment and proposes a legal framework to ensure adequate protection for workers. i must say that i do not entirely support this report, because of its overall tone. the flexible working arrangements, including the so-called reduced working hours, are perceived a priori as something negative. on the contrary, i support the need for some regulation of new forms of work and i reject in principle the idea that the only decent job is indefinite employment. that's not true anymore. the times call for flexibility in this area, which is appropriate for parents of young children, students or employees of companies that are experiencing problems and need to reduce their staff's working hours. that is why i have reservations about this report.
mr president, i think that this report and i think it would be appropriate to discuss it because it is of very high quality and i think that this expert debate is very necessary on such a fundamental issue. unfortunately, these are just one-off performances where you can't communicate everything. i would like to stress to the rapporteur what he has also said in his report, namely the importance of transparency in dealing with the issue of covered bonds. the requirement of transparency is, i think, absolutely important. at the same time, it is essential that we build confidence in financial stability. the reporter also emphasized this in his speech. in my view, it is important that premium and ordinary covered bonds and european covered bonds are fully covered by the portfolio of those assets. that is what is emphasized in the report, but i think it should be emphasized here in relation to stability. unfortunately, at that one minute, i was going to talk about bankruptcy protection, but that didn't work out.
mr president, i do not wish to question the importance of this subject, even in relation to the appellant's competence. i understand that new jobs can really come from fishing tourism. i'm not even questioning the social cohesion that this topic can actually bring. it certainly has the dimension of cooperation between countries: croatia, italy, slovenia, that is the adriatic region. but what i really question is the need to define a legal basis for this activity, that is to say for fisheries tourism. i think this is a thing that doesn't need a legal basis to be defined. we should focus on sustainability. so that the rate of depletion of our marine and coastal resources is not as extreme and as high as it is today. that's what we should be focusing on, but if we need to define a legal basis, i doubt that.
mr president, i would like to turn our attention to a subject that really deserves our great attention, and that is the question of drought. many member states and regions are now facing drought of catastrophic proportions, and the fact that europe is drying up is an undeniable fact. i think it is important to look for new impulses in water management within the czech republic, which is also affected, particularly the moravian regions. we need sustainable water management and we need to be inspired by the countries abroad, where the use of this basic resource is already very economical. it is essential that we act with care, both individually and, of course, in the industrial management of water, but i would also like our cohesion policy to include a certain impetus for disadvantaged regions. i think they need our help, and these impulses are absolutely necessary.
mr president, today marks exactly 25 years since the de facto disintegration of czechoslovakia began with the non-election of vaclav havel as president by a section of slovak elected mps who demanded the division of the federation and an independent slovakia. vaclav havel understood the will of the slovak nation and resigned. after the establishment of the independent czech republic, he was elected the first czech president in january 1993. his act contributed to the peaceful partition of czechoslovakia in a form of agreement that some countries consider exemplary. i mention this because this wednesday, july 5th, we will be opening a new building here in strasbourg, named after václav havel. it will be the seat of the european ombudsman and it will certainly suit václav havel, because he was, and symbolically will remain, the protector of citizens' rights. strasbourg is a symbolic city for both the french and the germans. this linking of the two banks symbolizes the price of peace. we czechs can be proud that the european ombudsman's office in this city bears the name of václav havel.
madam president, as early as 2013, just days before the british virgin islands tax evasion was revealed, the world social forum in tunis was discussing tax justice as one of the most important steps towards democratization and the fight against poverty. a series of recent tax evasion scandals have forced the european commission to act, after all. although the commission has declared that the fight against tax evasion and aggressive tax planning is its priority, i consider the proposal we are voting on today to be purely cosmetic. the obligation to disclose certain information will only apply to about 10%, and to a maximum of 15%, of multinational enterprises, with a number of exceptions. this is a lost opportunity. what we really need today are effective tools to combat tax evasion, money laundering and corruption, non-transparency of financial flows and, last but not least, effective citizen control over public budgets. what the right wing in the european parliament is offering us today is a placebo.
madam president, this is very important subject. it is part of our effort to achieve a better and fairer way to collect taxes and to protect people from the consequences if we fail to do so. but it would be good to look at this proposal from a broader perspective. the first aspect is international. we are not the only ones tackling this global problem. the more global the effort is, the more successful we are. the oecd has released its method, and country-by-country reporting is a very important part of this initiative. but this initiative was never intended to be public. it was never designed to be public and we should be aware of that. the second aspect is, i think, european. we took many measures to improve the situation and i believe we achieved certain improvements. this is only one of them. i believe that exchange of country-by-country reporting data among the tax authorities is the key improvement, and public access to this data is the thing that should ensure public tax authorities are doing their job properly. we should also take into account the concerns of our non-eu partners and the legitimate interests of companies. it was the intention of the commission to right the balance here, and i guess it should also be also our aim to achieve not the most extensive result but the most efficient one. i hope we will do that.
the rapporteur. - madam president, there has been no debate on this matter. the proposal we are voting on is making life easier for european citizens. in particular, it is about protecting the weaker party, the victims of road accidents with a cross-border element. this is a minimum harmonisation of limitation periods, their beginning, end and duration. in the juri committee, this motion was adopted by a large majority without difficulty, and i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support it in the house.
madam president, i would like to make it clear that i support the proposal for a european union directive on the disclosure of information on income tax by large companies, that is to say those with a turnover of more than eur 750 million. the use of tax havens, tax evasion is a challenge both at pan-european and global level. evidence also comes from the recent publication of an example of the panama papers scandal. the tax evasion of some companies is perceived very negatively by citizens who lose confidence in tax systems and no longer believe in justice and equality before the law. i believe that joint action at european level is essential for effective action to be taken against tax evasion. in conclusion, i therefore supported the legislative resolution because amendments were not adopted which would have widened the circle of companies that would not protect competition and sensitive commercial information. so the motion was accepted.
madam president, i could personally support this resolution because it contains a number of good ideas in my view and is fairly balanced. i consider public reporting on business data to be very important in the fight against international tax avoidance and tax evasion and have been raising this issue quite strongly in the european parliament for many years. with increasing mobility and, above all, a global and pan-european economic mode of operation, transparency in terms of disclosure is a prerequisite for strong governance and a tool to improve corporate social responsibility. that is why i fully support this motion, this resolution.
madam president, i know it is not appropriate for me to respond to a colleague at this minute of my life, but i cannot. what mrs forenza said is unacceptable, it is insulting to ukraine and i am surprised that such words can be heard in this room. be that way. for me, the agreement, or rather the measures to support ukraine, are obviously insufficient. but i still decided to support them because i think it's our duty to support a nation that is in a very difficult situation. i cannot imagine that after 1994, when we gave certain guarantees to the great powers of the west, the us and the uk, regarding the sovereignty of ukraine, that we would not support them in this conflict. i would like to support the regions that are affected by this agreement, of course, they are certainly parts of greece, they are part of the agricultural sector, but it is not possible in my opinion to leave ukraine at this moment. i voted yes.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report because i am personally convinced that the international community, led by the european union, must do more to monitor and resolve all conflicts that could lead to crimes, and in particular crimes against humanity. in this context, i would like to call on the european union, the european commission and the european council to do more to deal in a timely manner with crisis and conflict situations that can lead to the commission of heinous crimes. i would also like to stress in particular the importance and effectiveness of the exchange of information and coordination of investigations or preventive measures between the institutions. i think that's very necessary.
madam president, i too have supported this report. in my view, the international criminal court and support for the rome statute in general are in the european union's own essential interest. if we really want international law to apply to all aggressors who commit war crimes, including genocide, it is absolutely necessary that the international criminal court should have jurisdiction over the vast majority of countries. that is not the case today, and it is in the european union's interest, of course, to get the maximum of that support. i appreciate that the report, which unfortunately has not been discussed in plenary, apart from a very brief presentation, reinforces the element of prevention and cooperation within the international community. i think that's absolutely crucial to preventing this crime, which should not be punishable. i think it's important to reiterate that the people who commit these crimes must not, at any time in their lives, anywhere, escape justice and hide from that justice and from their responsibility.
madam president, i admit that i hesitated to support this report, and i have to say that if it had not been for the speech by mrs vautmans in the plenary today and the oral amendment, i would not have supported this report. i of course recognize the importance of working with private agencies to ensure security, but in yesterday's mini-debate, because unfortunately there was no debate on this point again, i think the very important circumstance that private security services, which are involved in ensuring security, must not have any role in the investigation, came to the surface. in principle, they must not have more rights than those granted to them by the national legislation of the member states than ordinary private persons. that is important and it is this assurance given by the oral amendment that has given me positive expectations. i mean, i endorsed this report.
madam president, as you can hear, the european parliament has big ambitions for 2018. i think we're all calling for clear priorities. i would personally really expect an emphasis on managing the migration crisis, both inside the european union and outside the european union, that is, in the hotspots where this crisis originates, whether it's the middle east, africa. i think that's the priority for the end of 2017 and all of 2018. this year will also be designated as the european year of cultural heritage. i believe that this will be a successful year in this respect, and we will remind citizens of the common foundations on which the european union was built. i think that at a time when the hard brexit negotiations are under way, these remarks will be very much needed. i would like to draw attention to two other initiatives.
madam president, the original purpose of european integration was to defend peace. it is precisely for the sake of peace and security that the emancipation of european defence is necessary. i therefore welcome the proposals put forward by the commission at the beginning of june. of the three paths outlined in this discussion paper on the future of common defence, i am clearly in favour of the third option. that is the path to common defence in maximum coordination with nato. what i'm missing from the text is a clear identification of the security threats. calling threats by their right names is necessary and healthy. the aggression of russia is not the only reason for building a common european defence, but a clear name for this security threat should be given. sometimes i feel that the commission does not have the courage to call the russian threat by its proper name. i am absolutely in favour of the creation of a european defence fund. it should help to eliminate duplications and a high degree of fragmentation. after all, there are 17 different types of tanks in the eu countries alone. the chairman of the nato military committee, general petr pavel, last week defined the identity of european defence as a healthy process. nato and the eu are not competitors in the defence process, they complement each other. the process of this collaboration is not going to be cheap, we should ask how much does one kilogram of measurement cost. peace is a precious commodity. security is not free.
in writing. the economic crisis and the current migration crisis have one common impact that should never happen again in the future. of course, crises often come unexpectedly, but i strongly reject the idea that this means that funds have to be moved from existing and well-functioning initiatives and projects. the funding of programmes and projects is planned years in advance and citizens count on it. the commission and the council, therefore, should be aware of the need to create a new flexible financial resource if they wish to launch new initiatives. in this respect, the 1% gni barrier for the contribution to the common budget will have to be broken. compared to the 21 percent of the federal budget contributed by the states of the united states, our 1 percent is really ridiculous, even though its efficiency is absolutely fantastic. all member states, whether they are interested in funding cohesion policy, agriculture or science and research, benefit from the common budget and integration. if the current budgetary policy is not working as it should, as the annual agreements between net payers and net beneficiaries show, it needs to be changed, to be stripped of all opaque rebates and discounts and to be replaced by a more neutral and sustainable income based on the gross national income of the member state.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – mr president, employment is the backbone of every house economy. that is why we must make sure that employment and growth are properly addressed in the budget. this opinion had consensus amongst the political groups: that growth should be our key focus. in particular, we addressed youth unemployment, which is still too high: 19%. there are also large discrepancies between member states, and the budget should focus on programmes that target these discrepancies. we also looked at funds for vocational training and professional qualifications to address youth unemployment and reduce the skills gap – especially in sectors like it, where companies have problems finding qualified people. we need close cooperation between the commission, parliament and the member states to achieve the best results in the next years.
mr president, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mr mureşan, with whom i had the opportunity to discuss the issue of cohesion policy and its allocation, and i would also like to thank the commissioner for taking this view of our presentation. i watched him in the meeting. i think the priorities that have been mentioned for our 2018 budget are too many, it turns out that the main thing will be just a certain selection. priorities are rising, whether it's migration, the security situation in europe. and the budget is not inflated, of course. we can basically think of this as a rehearsal for the post-brexit period. the moment the uk leaves and doesn't pay its contribution to the budget, the money will be even more scarce. so i would like to express the hope that the budget will be responsible, that it will cut where it is really possible, and support those priorities and policies that are important for our future. i firmly believe that we will reach an agreement with the council in the mandate. because then we would be disappointed in the eyes of the most important people, in the eyes of the citizens of europe.
mr president, i was also surprised by the commissioner's remarks, because he said virtually nothing on the subject. he actually used words about the timidity of these reforms, talking about how we see some progress on the basis of, for example, women being able to drive a car or marry again on the basis of a license. i think that shows how misunderstood the commission was about this debate. i want to tell this story: at the lowest level i know, women are now allowed to vote in saudi arabia, and if two women were happily talking and dancing about being allowed to vote, the other one jokingly responded to the first one who asked her why she didn't get to vote. well, she couldn't drive, no one drove her there. i think that illustrates the picture of saudi arabia. it really has become a goat gardener, if saudi arabia is on the committee that is in charge of women's emancipation and women's rights around the world, it is certainly reprehensible.
mr president, let me start, madam vice-president, by saying that alde and myself will vote in favour of the agreement and the resolution exactly because the resolution sends out a clear message on what we expect from the implementation. may i say that we have a person that has been in prison in cuba for 16 years that is one of the key representatives of the cuban opposition, and in his presence i would like to read out a message that we are getting from them: ‘we are encuentro nacional cubano, an open assembly representing more than 60 independent entities, civil and political organisations, both from cuba and from the cuban community in exile. we take note of the decision of the european union to start a new chapter of relationship with cuba by concluding a new treaty of cooperation with the current cuban government. we understand and appreciate the role of the european parliament for taking an active stance for the defence of human rights in the process of its ratification and having this important debate. but having said that, we would like to remind you, referring to the fundamental values and elementary principles the european union itself is based upon: it is the cuban people and not just those in power right now who must be an essential and indispensable party to this treaty. we call on you to insist that the application must not be adjusted just to the wishes of the current power holders, a totalitarian military junta whose only is just to keep themselves in power and preserve their privileges to the detriment of the cuban people. we appeal to you to express your support clearly to the just demands of the freedom-loving cubans who observe today’s debate, united in a common goal to bring their beloved country peacefully from the current misery to the path of democracy, the respect for undeniable human rights and economic prosperity. last sentence. we ask you to urge the eu institutions not only to assist cuba on the path of economic recovery and development, but at the same time to help materially the emerging bodies of the cuban independent civil society.... (interrupted by the president)
madam president, i would like to thank silvia costa and also elmar brok for the joint report. setting a long-term strategy for international cultural relations is very difficult in a society, in a world that is evolving so fast. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance not involving public authority tasks outsourced by the commission under ad hoc service contracts. in the report i have presented, i particularly welcome the fact that the results and also the graduates of programmes such as erasmus+, creative europe or horizon 2020 are to be used. culture is also one of the means to fight for human rights and to combat radicalism. i therefore welcome the initiative to increase support for cultural professionals in countries and regions where human rights are at risk. we know from our own experience that culture can transcend borders and build bridges where other tools are not.
i am very pleased with this compromise, which has been reached after such a long time, because it is extremely important that the european union finally put in place measures to ensure effective protection of its financial interests. i appreciate that one very important thing has been achieved in the negotiations, namely the inclusion of vat fraud in the scope of this directive. in view of our closely interconnected european integration, it is inconceivable to me that vat fraud and the criminal measures associated with it were excluded from the directive. the convention itself on the protection of financial interests provides for this inclusion of vat. nevertheless, i see this new directive as merely an initial step in the european union's joint development in this area, in the area of the protection of the european union's financial interests. ladies and gentlemen, this is where cooperation is particularly needed, not only with the member states of the european union, europol, eurojust, but also with the public prosecutor's office, which must be involved as soon as possible in the protection of the financial interests of the european union. the european union is still lagging behind. it needs to be strengthened as quickly as possible, and this at the level of the european union. the fight against tax fraud, which is becoming more and more common in the european union, and its links with organised crime and the financing of terrorism, which pose a major threat to the european union, must be tackled in particular. ladies and gentlemen, when you ask why meps are not in session at 9 a.m., it is usually because they are talking about such directives until the evening.
madam president, i don't know if you've all noticed, but the european union is in the process of disintegrating. the united kingdom is leaving, the individual member states are no longer complying with your regulations, whether it be on schengen, whether it be on budgetary rules and greece, france or whether it be on your regulation on quotas and the attitude of the countries of central europe. but let's not be sad about it. the european union is not europe. europe is not falling apart. the european union is a bureaucratic whorehouse, a palace of bureaucrats, behind whose walls officials and politicians are often detached from reality. europe, on the other hand, is a beautiful continent with more than 50 countries, more than 700 million inhabitants, dozens of languages, and countless interesting and beautiful traditions. and this one doesn't go away. and when the european union breaks up, we have to see hope in that, hope that the countries of the former soviet union have gained. when the soviet union collapsed, people regained their freedom, states gained their independence. and when the european union breaks up, we have to believe and strive for individual member states to be able to work together, but on a voluntary basis, to be able to trade together, to be able to travel visa-free, and so i ask you in your dealings with the united kingdom, do not trample on this principle, if we respect the principle of free trade as a principle that is mutually beneficial, so let's have free trade with the united kingdom, let's have free trade with others. i look forward to a european union without bureaucracy, a free europe.
madam chairman, mr. prime minister, thank you for introducing your four priorities for the presidency. i think you've made the right choice, but there are a lot of tasks. let me focus on two. the audiovisual services directive has already been mentioned. i think it is very important that the negotiations are completed, because this is a proposal that has been adopted here in parliament with great support in the committees, and it is about improving internet safety, especially in relation to the protection of minors. the second priority concerns the internal market. you yourself have mentioned that you want to facilitate the movement of services and the provision of services and business across the european union. so you will certainly be negotiating the directive on the posting of workers, which has been the subject of much criticism here in the european parliament, and rightly so. i would therefore like to invite you to take an active part in the negotiations, for example the slovak presidency proposed the so-called dual system, which did not receive widespread support. you're also in negotiations about a mobility package that tightens the terms for carriers. this is an example of the risk of a new division between the new and the old member states and the re-establishment of a barrier. it's up to you to try to find a good compromise. and you picked a great password for that. unity through balance , so i wish you a lot of strength and look forward to working with you.
mr president, commissioner, prime minister, the estonian presidency will discuss the electronic communications code and the new structure of berec. in the future, we are laying the legislative foundations for high-capacity communications infrastructure, the development of digital systems and a digital market. if we can set the parameters sensibly and without too much red tape, we can also be of great help to europe's digital business. digitalization will change the vast spectrum of technology and will interfere with every corner of our lives - from computers to cars. during the estonian presidency, the entire winter energy package should also be passed by the european parliament, which also sets the rules for decades ahead and will have a huge impact on the economy of each member state in the future. i therefore wish you every success in your presidency, it will not be an easy period. and i have highlighted only two technical and, in my view, important legislative packages, and i have not mentioned other areas such as brexit or migration.
madam president, just very briefly. from time to time we are able to welcome distinguished people in the gallery. today we will vote on the agreement with cuba, most likely positively. some of us have invited also the representatives of the cuban opposition. many of them could not make it, for obvious reasons. so please, allow me just to welcome one of them, someone who spent 16 years in prison in cuba, mr fuentes, who is one of the coordinators of the cuban opposition. i think they deserve our recognition. (applause)
madam president, i did not support this agreement because i think what is being said here is quite a big load of nonsense. we can't have a dialogue with someone who doesn't respect democratic principles. i was in cuba, i was there on december 10, 2015, and, ladies of the communist party, i saw people beaten up. every time i visited someone, they ended up in jail very soon. he ended up in prison, and in prison, of course, he was beaten. how do you want to have a dialogue with these people? how do you want to have a dialogue with communists who actually beat their opponents and don't let them talk? that's why i can't vote for the opening of a political dialogue. laugh, i think that those who have not experienced communism only dream about it and talk nonsense like you. and you've proven that time and time again with your behavior right now in explaining the vote.
madam president, today we adopted the council's position at second reading, adopting the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the fight against fraud to the union's financial interests by means of criminal law. the title and the process that led to the adoption of the directive are important. that's why i named him that. it is a first step towards harmonising criminal law in europe in cases where crimes are committed to the detriment of the eu budget. this is a long-negotiated consensus among all actors, including the justice ministers of the member states. the directive defines the powers of the european public prosecutor in this area and introduces the prosecution of cross-border fraud in cases involving losses of at least eur 10 million in two or more member states. of course, now it will be a matter of implementation, including the work of the european prosecutor, whose work we will of course monitor.
mr. chairman, i think it's necessary to tell the turkish side that we disagree with what's happening in their country. we should tell them in person and as a member of the eu-turkey delegation i am not happy that we are not able to visit turkey and exchange information with our colleagues and give them our opinion. turkey cannot be counted as a candidate country for eu membership, it is being echoed from all sides. the european parliament's report therefore calls for both accession negotiations and pre-accession assistance to be suspended. i was never in favour of full membership, but i saw this as an opportunity to open up dialogue, to reform the turkish side. and i think our report should also include a call for a new partnership with the european union. this should be a signal to those in turkey who are not reconciled to the current situation, to those who have come out today in peaceful protests, such as the march of justice from ankara to istanbul.
i am also happy to extend thanks to the three rapporteurs and i feel the genuinely positive atmosphere among you, so thank you. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 6 july 2017. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by seb dance, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on eu action for sustainability (2017/2009(ini)) (a8—0239/2017), and– the council and commission statements on the high-level political forum on sustainable development (2017/2715(rsp)).
madam president, when the 17 sdgs were adopted in 2015, the text was also welcomed by people with disabilities. the previous agenda, the so-called millennium development goals, made no mention of their rights, whereas the motto of the sustainable development goals became 'leave no one behind'. the ambition of the sustainable development goals is to end poverty in all its forms everywhere in the world. it is the disabled who are most at risk of poverty, not only in developing countries but also in the european union. they are among the most marginalized in society, lacking access to education, health care or employment. that is why measures to take account of them are necessary and why it is important that they are included in this report. i therefore tabled two amendments to that effect, and i thank all the colleagues who have supported them across the political groups, and i hope that the others will support them in the vote tomorrow.
the question posed by the blue card. mr president, i want to say that you always criticise any lack of economy, any lack of economy in the functioning of the european union, especially your political group. and you have said that strasbourg is ready to accept the seat of the european parliament as the sole seat. can you tell me what savings we would be making at this point if everyone had to travel with us? you mean the council, the commission? what savings would be achieved?
mr president, i have listened to this debate with great pleasure and will continue to do so, but i think it is a bit futile, perhaps a bit wasteful. in principle, when my french colleague said that the french government had taken the decision not to move its seat to brussels, or rather to designate that one seat in brussels, i think that the debate is really going nowhere. i'll save you the time and give up the next 30 seconds, which means, let's continue the debate.
mr. chairman, i'd like to thank mr. omarjee for his excellent report. what i appreciate most about it is that it turns us to the point of solidarity. that's a view, i think, that we lose sight of sometimes, and it's definitely not a happy one. the outermost regions deserve our support, they have a special status granted not only by primary law but also by a judgment already declared. i believe that these remote regions must remain the focal point of territorial cohesion. they face problems, they face disadvantages, and what else is there but to remove those disadvantages, and that is also cohesion policy, that is to say territorial cohesion. that is why i was a little surprised by what mr kłosowski said, that their problems should be solved within those states, which i think is leaving the aspect of solidarity, and i think we should not really lose sight of it in relation to these remote regions.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, the negotiations for the adoption of the marrakesh treaty have been disproportionately long and i am very pleased that we are at the end of this process today and can show the concrete results of our work to those who really need it most. more than 300 million blind, visually impaired and dyslexic people will gain access to books and other printed materials, which until now has been a copyright issue. only 5% of books are now published in accessible formats for the visually impaired, and even less in some countries. for the visually impaired, it is a fundamental barrier to access to education. the largest numbers of these people live in developing and less developed countries. the adoption of this treaty will also improve access to books for the visually impaired by allowing a number of organisations to send copies of works to other countries. i would consider it shameful if the treaty were to enter into force without the participation of the european union. i firmly believe that we can achieve the same success with the accessibility act, which we will be debating in plenary after the summer holidays, and that we can show the 80 million europeans with disabilities that we really want to help them! thank you for your attention.
author. – madam president, the case of liu xiaobo and lee ming—che are different from each other but are both attributable to similar reasons. we strongly condemn the long-term persecution of this most famous chinese dissident who got inspiration from václav havel. liu xiaobo is seriously ill and near death. a different case is a young men from thailand, lee ming-che who came to china to talk about human rights and was arrested without any evidence. his case also points to the absence of rule of law in china. he is in fact, a citizen of another country which china treats as its territory. there are many persecuted people in china. we cannot name them all, but we have therefore symbolically added a reference to the recently arrested catholic bishop peter shao zhumin. we should strengthen our human rights dialogue with china regardless of our economic interests. thank you, colleagues, for your support.
madam president, i was happy to sign the motion for a resolution on this point and i would also like to support the two people named in this motion for a resolution. i would allow our eyes to be opened to perhaps other circumstances. china has actually signed a number of human rights treaties in the 70 years since the end of world war ii, and in principle, it's been brazenly violating them. i think we need to have a dialogue with china, we need to talk because we can. and it's a fact that a lot of people who are in china can't talk. we are safe and we are sending a number of delegations to china on behalf of the european union institutions, and i think we should really take every opportunity to speak to each of these delegations about the serious human rights violations. we, if we can, should really have a dialogue and we have an obligation to do so.
madam president, there is no interpretation into czech, so i do not know if the system is functioning.
for the ppe group. madam president, i would like to say that the situation in eritrea is serious in the long term. what is particularly discouraging is the political situation in a country that does not abide by any international treaties. there is no system of national elections, no independent judiciary, no rule of law, which to me is the clearest evidence that this is the greatest authoritarian regime in the world. i therefore fully support the european union's approach and believe that even stronger measures are needed.
madam president, i would like to say that i agree with all my previous speakers and will not describe the situation in eritrea as it has been described. eritrea is one of the youngest countries, but the one that is facing the worst human rights violations, with massive, diverse human rights violations. i think that the proposal that has been dropped and is contained in the resolution to suspend the aid, i think it is very, very valid. we should want the money that the european union is providing to have concrete, measurable effects in certain steps. it's not possible to send money in a situation where we don't get answers to our questions. and that resolution, which concerns only two people, of course, those are the ones who are so enlightened, but there are thousands and thousands of other nameless people who suffer under a regime whose only major strength is to recruit a tenth of its citizens into its army. i think that should be a very important memento for us.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am not ready to answer these questions today. i can, of course, respect this request but it is difficult to give an immediate answer. i would like to give a written answer.
author. – madam president, this is not the first time that we have discussed the situation in burundi. since april 2015, there has been an alarming deterioration of human rights and a severe humanitarian crisis in the country. those opposing the president’s legitimate re-election are facing a massive clampdown and violations of their rights. respect for the opposition, free and fair elections and freedom of speech are fundamental to any democracy. we must condemn these acts of violence and other human rights abuses in burundi. we must be clear that we cannot allow the situation to continue. we must ensure that the eu targeted sanctions are fully implemented, effective and further extended until we see real reform in the country. the eu member states and the union should speak was one voice on burundi and do all that they can to finally bring about peaceful coexistence among the nations of the great lakes region, working together with the un and the african union. burundi has come a long way since its independence. we must take action now to help bring peace to this region.
mr. chairman, i am very pleased that we have adopted legislation today to transpose the international marrakesh convention on the accessibility of copyright-protected works to persons with disabilities. this exception will have a major impact on the quality of life of visually impaired citizens and will allow them to participate more fully in cultural, economic and social life, provided, of course, that member states also cooperate. at present, 20% of all works are available through alternative methods, mainly in braille, large format or in audio books. so giving access to the other 80% can have a major impact on the study options and overall education of these people, and at the same time it doesn't affect the commercial sale, because these people are just not involved yet, they're not using the copyrighted artwork. i believe that breaking down these barriers will help to improve their quality of life.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commission for his explanation. the meat scandal in brazil was of course shocking and european consumers naturally have legitimate concerns. our priority should always be to protect the health of our consumers. this crisis must be solved and we must ensure that it does not happen again. i believe that the eu has taken these concerns seriously. on revelation of the scandal the eu suspended meat imports from brazil, but these restrictions must stay in place until we can be certain that there are no risks. the brazilian authorities have to show they have implemented all the necessary measures for their inspection system and safety checks, and in this regard i welcome a second audit by the commission at the end of this year. the meat scandal should furthermore give the eu a more powerful argument for a strong sps chapter in the negotiations on an eu-mercosur free trade agreement, which i hope can be concluded by the end of this year. after years of deadlock these negotiations have been revived and i call on the commission to use this political momentum on both sides to continue pushing forward. this agreement will bring many opportunities for our businesses and consumers and should thus not be overshadowed by this scandal.
mr president, the brazilian meat scandal is extremely serious, unfortunately not an isolated incident. years ago, a horse meat scandal caused outrage in europe and drew attention to unfair practices and fraud in the food chain. various measures have been taken and consumers have been reassured that the situation is under control, and monitoring mechanisms have been strengthened and are functioning. so now we know about the failure of the brazilian side, where for years, unsuitable meat was exported from brazil. it is therefore entirely appropriate to ask, and i have also supported the initiative of mrs smolková, what measures the european commission is taking to ensure that only meat of undoubted quality reaches consumers, whether it is produced in the eu or imported from third countries. if we are talking about the single market and what the citizens of the european union really want, then these are the answers to these questions, and i thank you for them, commissioner.
for the ppe group. mr. chairman, the nature of mrs. storch's speech has convinced me that i must change my prepared speech. firstly, i am convinced that her criticism of the lack of colleagues present on thursday afternoon is irrelevant in the situation where she was not present at the june meeting on thursday afternoon. i think the lady colleague should touch her own conscience a little. secondly, in that interpellation, mr juncker is quoted as saying certain things which are not in his communication. that, in my view, is also a bit out of place. thirdly, as regards the criticism of the commissioner, in his last interview, which i think meets the criteria for seriousness, he spoke for 16 plus 4 minutes and i think he was very factual, very thorough, to criticise him, that also seems to me inappropriate. and fourthly, and this is my last comment on this question, the common security and defence policy under the lisbon treaty involves the progressive establishment of a common defence policy, which is to be achieved on the basis of a joint decision by the european council acting unanimously.
the rapporteur of the committee on legal affairs. madam president, sadly, data and surveys show that one in three women in europe will experience physical or sexual violence during her adult life. one in five women in europe then experienced online harassment or dangerous stalking, known as stalking. the annual cost of violence against women and gender-based violence in the european union is estimated at eur 228 billion. in my home country, the czech republic, it is estimated that there are as many as 6,000 rapes per year, and only about a tenth of the victims seek help. these are alarming numbers. the istanbul convention, which we are discussing today, sets out in particular the duty to prevent, the principle of protection and support for victims, as well as the prosecution of perpetrators of violence and domestic violence. in the committee on legal affairs we have clearly supported the accession of the european union to the istanbul convention. we believe that we need an effective and enforceable instrument at european level to lead to the eradication of domestic violence.
madam president, i welcome the proposal for a council decision to accede to the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, within the exclusive competence of the european union. this is a very important issue, and it is also important that the european union should respect the principle of subsidiarity. allow me, therefore, to express my doubts about the text of the motion for a resolution. the motion for a resolution, in my view, touches on matters which fall within the competence of the member states. citizens expect an effective european union based on the consistent application of the principle of subsidiarity. i am not convinced that voting for the text will meet the expectations of our citizens. i regret that the motion for a resolution, by not respecting the principles of subsidiarity, is diluting the support that the istanbul convention itself deserves. it's important to raise awareness about violence against women, any violence is unacceptable, violence breaks down society. victims of violence may never again be fully integrated into society. violence against women, like any other form of violence, is therefore a criminal offence under the laws of each state. i have not supported resolutions in the past whose text touched upon matters falling within the competence of national states, and i regret that i will have to do so again in the case of this resolution.
mr president, the european parliament will continue to express its views on the european union's accession to the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. violence is a sad reality, and it is not avoided even by societies as culturally advanced as the european one. and we shouldn't bury our heads in the sand before this phenomenon. i support the council's proposal that the european union should accede to the convention in areas which are the responsibility of the european union, such as asylum and judicial cooperation. the european union should assist member states in combating violence against women in ways that can be successfully implemented in the member states and that may vary. for example, the czech republic has a domestic violence protection law from 2006, when the convention did not even exist. i agree with my colleague corazza bildt that the group of the european people's party is in favour of zero tolerance for violence against women. ladies and gentlemen, depending on how we vote on the amendments, i will be joining the draft report.
mr president, the subject of domestic violence and violence against women is a recurring theme here. one in three women in the european union has experienced some form of violence. particularly serious and reprehensible is the fact that up to 80% of women with disabilities are victims of physical or psychological violence in the home, and they have a significantly reduced ability to defend themselves against the aggressor. yet, only a small percentage of perpetrators are punished, since victims are often unable or unwilling to turn to the police. that's part of the problem. the only legally binding international instrument to prevent and combat violence against women is the istanbul convention. it commits states to work to prevent violence, protect its victims and prosecute perpetrators, and proposes concrete steps to do so. it is good that the council and all the member states of the european union have already signed the convention. but now it's important that our commitment doesn't end with this signature. we have a really long way to go.
mr president, reducing aviation emissions is one of the biggest challenges facing european environmental policy today. this sector is the one that is growing the most in terms of emissions, from 1.5% in 1990 to 4.5% in 2015. the european union has not taken air transport into account in the development of an effective climate strategy and has also tried to liberalise the sector as much as possible. how successful can european union policies be if they do not tackle such major problems in a comprehensive way, but choose which ones they want to tackle and which ones they do not? if we don't act now, and we do it now, we risk having aviation emissions rise by 300% by 2050. then we will have a hard time delivering on the paris climate agreement, which the european union itself and all of us have put so much work and hope into. please, let's just stop talking and start doing something. aviation must be part of the system, aviation must be part of the environmental strategy of the european union.
member of the commission. – mr president, i have listened very carefully to the debate today and i appreciate the engagement of the members of parliament and their commitment to bring this proposal forward in a swift manner. political pressure has been mentioned by many of you – ms girling, mr lange, mr gerbrandy, mr eickhout, amongst others – and it is our intention to keep an ambitious position in the international civil aviation organisation (icao). the outcome of icao does not fully meet european ambitions. an offsetting mechanism was not europe’s first option for aviation and we would have preferred a carbon-trading system. but the icao process is a complex one and an offsetting mechanism was the maximum our international partners were ready to accept. we are very well aware of the weaknesses of international credits. however, we are working hard in icao to define robust eligibility criteria for emission units so only those that deliver real and additional reductions can be used under the carbon offsetting and reduction scheme for international aviation (corsia). we have nevertheless to give corsia an opportunity to deliver, and some implementing rules which are still being finalised from several aspects such as monitoring, verification, transparency and eligibility of units or alternative fuels are key for ensuring environmental performance. we need to know the final features of the scheme first and then see whether and how it is implemented by third countries before carrying out a final assessment. as foreseen in our proposal, we will come up with a new review at a new time when there is more clarity on the operation of corsia. in that review we will address the post-2020 situation in detail. there was a very specific remark made by mr zoffoli related to non-co2 gases from aviation and their impact on climate. climate impacts from aviation’s non-co2 gases are relevant. however, we will still need some research to better know how they operate and what the magnitude is. nox emissions, water vapour or contrails may have different effects that could result in warming effects, but the magnitude depends also on the altitude or atmospheric conditions. that makes it also difficult to quantify their impact and to address them through market measures. in any case, we remain committed to continue studying the effects of those emissions and assess measures to address them in the most effective manner. i would like finally to thank all of you for taking this important step in parliament which provides crucial political momentum for this proposal. i am glad to say that the discussions have progressed well in the council as well, so we should be ready to start the trilogue soon, and the commission stands ready to engage in the discussions and will do its best to facilitate an agreement before the end of the year.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 13 september 2017.
the next item is the report by norbert lins, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the inclusion of greenhouse gas emissions and removals from land use, land use change and forestry into the 20130 climate and energy framework (com(2016)0479 – c8-0330/2016 – 2016/0230(cod)) (a8-0262/2017).
madam president, i agree with the previous speakers that forests play an important role in protecting the climate. their absorption capacity is truly unquestionable. i would like to emphasize not only the environmental value, but also the economic value. i do not want to question the paris agreement at all, it is a clear commitment of the european union and i am happy for it. but i think we must seek the widest possible compromise in those areas where competence lies primarily with the member states. for this reason too, i would like to support the compromise proposal put forward by our fellow rapporteur, mr norbert lins, because it seeks to strike a balance between our responsibility in relation to the paris agreement and our respect for the member states which have competence in relation to forestry.
madam president, i agree that the european union has done a great deal for transparency, for the heart of democracy, as my colleague said. i do not want to spend this one minute talking about the positive things that the european union has done, but about what lies ahead. the rapporteur uses the term 'effective responsibility'. i agree with him very much. i think that at the level of lobbying, we should regulate lobbying contacts on the lower floors, because the upper floors are already pretty well lit. but the lower floors, it looks like if it's not dark, it's at least foggy. i think that should be changed as the report suggests. as regards conflicts of interest, we are witnessing major scandals which are really affecting the good name of the european union, which are dragging us into the depths of politics, and it would be good if the european commission were to address this, especially, for example, in the appointment of judges, which i think is one of the pressing issues.
madam president, i also welcome the proposal the european commission has made in its strategy for space development. i also want to say that the agency that is dealing with this development is based in prague. i think that the technologies that we use and that have their source or origin in the universe where they operate, so their use is really everyday, affecting our lives, as the rapporteur very rightly said. i like the way the report highlights the issue of start-ups. and not just start-ups, but smes, and the use of these technologies by these beneficiaries. i would like to thank the rapporteur for emphasising the role of municipalities, cities and regions in planning the development and use of these space-based technologies. i think that's a very innovative approach and i'd like to thank her for it.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for both the presentation of his report and the very detailed and well-founded reasoning he has given here in the plenary. as he said, distance and continuing education is simply an opportunity that we're not taking advantage of. this report recalls the very rapid changes in the labour market, in fact by 2025 we can expect that almost half of all jobs in the european union will require a university degree, almost 40% will require a secondary education and only 11% will be low-skilled or unqualified. so it's about developing human capital, which we should be encouraging in this way. it's also an opportunity to develop universities. at european union level, we propose to improve the sharing of experience and the comparability of qualifications, to make these programmes more flexible and to train and develop teachers.
madam president, in the summer, italian authorities revealed that some non-profit organizations were working with smugglers, taking economic migrants directly to the libyan coast. there, they even allowed smugglers to take the engines from the boats that brought the migrants there, take them back, and bring others. i would like to take this opportunity to call on the european commission not to be lax, to help the italian government to mobilize forces and to take action against these groups, and if necessary, if these groups or non-profit organizations do not comply with the code of conduct that the italian government has called for, to stop all funding and to refuse their cooperation in the rescue operations. i think the biggest money in this business is not made by people who are moved to italy, it's made by smugglers.
member of the commission. madam president, this is my first plenary debate in my new role as commissioner for the digital economy and society. the emotion is all the greater because once again the citizens are at the heart of this debate and constitute the common priority for all of us. ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr zorrinho. i would also like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs and the rapporteurs of the budg, tran and regi committees for their work. in general, the commission would like to thank the european parliament for the political agreement reached following a single trilogue last may. to start, let me quote president juncker, one year to the day after his state of the union address: 'everyone should benefit from connectivity in public spaces everywhere in europe, no matter where they live or how much they earn.' the wifi4eu initiative is a concrete and decisive step in this direction. over the next three years, it will provide internet access to residents and visitors in 6,000 to 8,000 local communities across the european union. over the next three years, i would also like to say that the european commission is pleased that the european parliament agrees on the importance of providing high quality internet access to our citizens. the council, the committee of the regions and the economic and social committee also share this approach. i would like to refer to three main elements of the initiative which were discussed and for which parliament's contribution was decisive. first, funding will be allocated with geographical balance in the countries of the union and, in principle, on a first-come, first-served basis. when the vouchers are distributed, the principle of subsidiarity applies in full. municipalities will thus be free to choose what they consider to be the main centres of their community: a public library, the town hall, local care centres, a square, parks, etc., while ensuring that competition with private operators is not distorted. therefore, the scope of the initiative does not allow for duplication with existing networks with similar characteristics. we will also ensure that user connections remain free of charge and without discriminatory conditions. secondly, access to high-speed connectivity will be simple. after a single registration, users will be able to connect automatically to all wifi4eu access points in europe. in addition, thanks to a very useful amendment introduced by parliament, the initiative will also be open to existing public networks, so that any local authority in europe will be invited to join the wifi4eu network. finally, this initiative also concerns content. we want to encourage the development of more and better digital services by local actors. i am thinking here of online tourism, online health and online administration. once again, i would like to thank the european parliament for the work done on this wifi4eu initiative. i thank you for your attention and look forward to the discussions ahead.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, we have heard very positive words about the initiative. we have also heard now somewhat reluctant words. i would say the truth is somewhere in between. it is an opportunity: the programme itself has certain elements which are relatively new. i think they definitely cut the administrative burden, which is already a precedent for, let us say, other initiatives in the future. secondly, it is a carrot in the telecom package. i think it is a carrot which can create impetus, and that is important. of course, whether it be four, six or eight thousand communities, it will not be a revolution. but we all know that in a number of member states, in some remote areas, the culture is relatively low in this respect in terms of developing in this field, and that is what i understand the initiative to be: to create an impetus that would really make a difference. if i were a mayor of a village which has not applied, and i see that in the next community they have applied and they have received their contribution and wifi is being engaged, i might see people from my community suddenly leaving for the next village in the evening for entertainment or something else, but that is an added value. what i am looking for is a spillover effect, and that is why the commission should be very careful and very pragmatic in terms of evaluation of the effect that will have. promotion will be absolutely key, so if we really want to achieve what we are aiming at – and i see a number of positives: single authentication, low administrative burden and a relatively speedy approach – then i think that gradual implementation and the permanent engagement of the commission is crucial. a final remark on the budget: i find the horse trading, whether it is eur 95 million or 120 million, a bit of a disgrace bearing in mind what the objective is, what the money concerned is, and what we are really looking forward to. i hope that we will comply with the statement that is existing on the table and that we will increase the budget.
madam president, i naturally welcome the fact that a compromise has been reached on the parameters and financing of the wifi4eu project. in my view, next to digital roaming, this is one of the most tangible outcomes of this election period that will be completely clear to our citizens. but i would like to draw attention to two aspects that could be risky. the first is, of course, the need to maintain a geographical balance in funding and to define correctly the really relevant beneficiaries of financial support. i am convinced that meaningful projects will be financed to achieve this initial objective, but it will be necessary to strengthen control mechanisms not only at european level but also at member state level, and to establish some synergy with european funds or alternative co-financing so that the result is fully tangible. transparency in project funding is, in my view, key.
madam president, in the 21st century, high-quality internet connection, not just in large cities but also in small, remote villages, is key for the successful development of our society. we all know the reasons: internet access gives people access to information and the ability to get entertainment. it is key for government to provide online services to serve citizens better at lower cost and it is also essential for job creation and support for tourism that is very vital for these small communities. there are hundreds and hundreds of companies that provide internet connections, but their focus is on large communities. in small places, for economic reasons, they do not do it because the investments are not matched by the revenues and, as a result, people there do not have access to services and this will undermine development of their communities. this is exactly the moment when the governments should step in and some of them do, but some of them do not. as a consequence, people will be at a big disadvantage. we should assign importance to that because these people are europeans, they should have at least the chance, and this is where the project can play a very important role if it is implemented properly. we are not talking about huge amounts of money and a huge impact, but we are talking about good things, about an important message and example, an example that i believe will be followed, that is why it has my full support.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, this is a very important file and marks real progress: it was politically difficult, politically sensitive and also very demanding technically. we have already spoken today about regional cooperation, solidarity among member states, protected customers, and transparency of contracts. i would also add – something that has not been mentioned – that we have also included fair compensation, so we are still primarily market—based, and we are of course talking about last resort. all that is key because from now on our citizens, my compatriots, should feel that there is more energy security and that contracts are not being concluded somewhere by someone where we do not know exactly what is in them and whether it will affect us or not. we should be in a position where the commission will eventually be assessing the implications of that. so major progress has been made and i think that all that you have said today, all the positive elements, are absolutely legitimate and valid. on the background to that, i would like to draw attention to one important element. we have been speaking for a couple of years now about energy union and a functioning energy market – all those elements that i have mentioned and that you have mentioned – but those of us who participated in the negotiations know how difficult it was and that it was quite often horse trading about the percentage, about real transparency and about solidarity. to those who spoke quite often two years ago about the crucial importance of the energy union, i must say that in the council those were quite often the bottlenecks of these negotiations. i do not think that it is coincidental that we had a very difficult round of talks on transparency, because some member states still feel that they would do it better, and that, if they had the possibly to negotiate on their own, they would be better off. so let us remind ourselves that parliament has played an important and crucial role with good interaction with the commission, but the idea and the objectives of the energy union are not yet deeply rooted in the member states. so let us make sure that we implement thoroughly what we have managed to negotiate. (applause)
madam president, the european union has experienced several energy supply crises in the past. the gas supply after the crisis situation that followed the interruption before 2010 was to be ensured by the strategic gas stocks directive. each state is obliged to have at its disposal sufficient stocks corresponding to 90 days' consumption during the winter period. in addition to this measure, it was decided to build a north-south gas pipeline link as a matter of urgency. currently, new opportunities related to the supply of liquefied natural gas have appeared on the european union gas market. the market is therefore gradually diversifying and, irrespective of the preparation of the new regulation, security of supply is increasing. the attempt to exert a significant political influence on the situation and the slowdown in the preparation of the north-south gas pipeline by poland are currently the biggest potential threat to gas supplies to the countries of the european union. what is completely incomprehensible to me is the hard, negative attitude towards the construction of alternative gas pipelines supplying the european union from the south, namely south stream. because the jerzy buzka report contains many positive points, it has my support.
mr president, commissioner, we are dealing here today with the spread of eggs labelled as toxic in europe due to a lack of protection. however, the belgian authorities were aware of the suspicion of fipronil-contaminated eggs at the beginning of june, but did not report it for the first time until 20 july. and so i ask you: is this really the way we see cooperation and consumer protection? perhaps the spokesman for the belgian government office is right and the decision not to publish information about the first suspect was in accordance with european regulations. if this is the case, then the rules must be changed at european level. i challenge you, commissioner, to be the bearer of this change. but what i consider to be absolutely scandalous and unacceptable and motivated by a mere desire to protect its businesses is what the belgian government has done. it was not about the health of european citizens, which i consider absolutely outrageous, it was only about the profits of its own companies. and we should avoid that, and we have to find ways to make sure that this never happens again in any other country.
mr president, as has already been said, there is an early warning system, but its functioning depends on the action of the national inspection authorities, in this case the netherlands and belgium. citizens' confidence in the functioning of the internal market depends on consistency in checks and on the clarification of any doubts. in this context, i am pleased that the tests carried out on poultry farmers in the czech republic have had a negative impact on fipronil and i expect that the fipronil case will be investigated and those responsible for the contamination will be punished so that consumer confidence in the european internal market is restored.
mr president, european consumers still have fresh memories of the unlabeled horse meat in foodstuffs, the brazilian meat scandals and the contaminated eggs that have appeared on the internal market and are also used as an ingredient in a number of other products. more than a month after the initial findings, the czech republic only last week imposed a requirement to carry out pre-market inspections on imported eggs and egg products. it is therefore entirely appropriate to ask whether the supervisory authorities have fulfilled in a timely and sufficient manner the obligation to exchange information under the early warning system and other obligations arising from market surveillance. are the penalties for infringements of existing rules sufficiently dissuasive to prevent the use of prohibited substances in the food industry? the unfair practices and repeated fraud in the food chain in the internal market simply cannot be ignored. not only is the price of the human health hazard of the current fipronil case too high, but consumer confidence in the internal market is unfortunately once again shaken to its foundations.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because i consider space to be extremely important, but it is also important to me that the report includes innovative elements, such as support for small and mediumsized enterprises, support for start-ups in the use of technologies that are actually derived from space. it was also very inspiring to me that the rapporteur also found the role of municipalities and cities in planning the development and use of technologies that come from outer space. these are, i think, very inspiring suggestions. i have supported this report not only for this reason but also for the simple reason that the space agency is based in prague and is a very inspiring sector in the development of the european union.
mr president, i think it is good news that the european parliament has adopted today a proposal for a regulation on the promotion of internet connectivity in municipalities. i would like to stress the importance of regional proportionality and thus the accessibility of municipalities in the regions as well. i would also like to emphasise that the european parliament has adopted amendments to the original proposal from the european commission which will prevent duplication and thus eliminate any threat to competition. i think this is good news for citizens, especially for countries with a high density of small communities where the internet connection is not yet fully secured. this of course also applies to the czech republic and it is important that the european commission and the member states make the information on this project as accessible as possible to the municipalities.
mr president, i also supported this report because access to the internet is really about the quality of life for all of us. it's about creating comparable conditions for just access to the internet, for connectivity. if you ask in some communities or in some areas of europe if they need 3g, it's like a trip to mars. and we're already talking about the fifth row of connections. and i think this approach is very important to keep the countryside from becoming depopulated, to really create an intelligent village and help maintain it. there are 6 250 municipalities in the czech republic, a large number, and this approach is a great challenge and a great advantage for czech, moravian and silesian villages. at the same time, i would like to criticise the czech government for not having spent a single crown in the third largest allocation of money for connectivity in this programming period.
mr president, i also supported this report. the reason for my vote is part of the agreement between the european parliament and the council at first reading, which includes a regional approach to risk assessment and the development of a plan of preventive and mitigation measures based on the so-called emergency supply corridors. this is an efficient and effective way to achieve a significantly higher level of energy security. that is the main reason why i supported this report and this resolution. the agreement between the european parliament and the council also introduces a solidarity clause as a legally binding principle and a last resort. however, it should not be seen as an alternative to market-based preventive measures, but as a procedure which is the ultima ratio, that is to say, the last resort.
mr president, allow me to explain why i did not vote for the report. the european people's party is in favour of zero tolerance for violence against women and has therefore tabled amendments so that we can all vote in favour of this report. unfortunately, the european parliament voted against our amendments, and so the report retains provisions in which the european union wants to interfere unduly with the competences of the member states and demands full eu accession to the convention. i agree that ratification is a symbolic gesture that can, in some countries, bring the issue to the forefront and force governments to address it. but it must be a free decision of governments and parliaments. violence is evil and must be opposed. those who suffer simply because they are weaker, whether women, children, the elderly or the unborn, must be protected. i don't see the difference, but unfortunately, paragraph four was left out, and so the report combines the incompatible, the fight against violence against women and the right to abortion. that's why it's unacceptable to me.
madam president, this report shows how dangerous the situation is. we are currently seeing the largest volume of arms transfers since the end of the cold war. the european union is the second largest arms exporter, and 86% of its arms end up in the middle east, a region torn by long-standing conflicts. the report rightly notes that some member states are entering into strategic partnerships with countries where human rights are being violated. what is fundamentally missing from the report is a call to reduce the amount of money spent on armaments. i hope that no one here thinks that the words of former us president bush, that the more troops, the more peace, are true. the european union is the winner of the nobel peace prize and is also the second largest arms exporter, and that's hypocritical. it's hypocritical and it costs lives. let's think about it!
madam president, the current decision by the united nations security council comes at the right time, because only united and tough pressure can bring north korea to the negotiating table. when i visited north korea 12 years ago, i saw a country of poor and unfree people. kim jong-il, the father of today's president, was already reluctant to negotiate a halt to the development of nuclear weapons. the democratic people's republic of korea is now more modern and economically stronger, and the young leader knows how to use modern technology to his advantage. we have experience in europe of fighting dictatorship and propaganda from the cold war, and we should therefore make the most of our experience and diplomatic and historical potential to get the north korean regime to immediately stop its provocations and tests and try to negotiate diplomatically. today there is a global will to stop this nuclear crisis and we must use it.
madam chairman, i want to warn you in advance that i will be making a technical note at the end of what you've done in the course of this meeting. i would like to begin by thanking you, madam high representative, for your speech today and to highlight a few positive points that deserve attention. firstly, the good news is that many aspects of the crisis are gradually improving, whether it is the effective identification procedures, the introduction of new security features, the functioning of frontex or the bilateral agreements with turkey and libya. all these things are gradually mitigating the effects of the crisis and we see that the european union is taking steps in the right direction and must continue to do so. but this is the imaginary tip of the iceberg of the migration crisis, because there are also many negative phenomena that the european union as a whole has to deal with, and for example, it has to help deal with, especially in the countries that are most affected by the economic crisis, which is italy. for example, the cooperation of some non-profit organisations with smugglers has been brought to the attention of the italian authorities. but the biggest shock is that the list of these uncovered nonprofits includes a number of reputable organizations, which proves the depth of the problem. there is an exploitation of refugees and migrants, and it's not just the financial profit that these organizations make. i mentioned it last night and i am happy to repeat it again, we must mobilize forces to fight this business and we must have the european union help the italian government to force these organizations to stop this business with migrants. on a technical note, madam president, can you tell me under what rule the possibility of a blue card is not granted to someone who has speaking time in the debate? and the second question is, why do you selectively deny me the blue cards repeatedly when i want to respond to someone in the middle of the field?
madam president, in the two years since the migration crisis escalated, the european union has taken a number of measures. the measures that limit the uncontrolled entry of refugees, such as the agreement with turkey, the negotiations with libya and other african countries, the coast and border guard, are working. there are no mandatory relocation quotas and there is no adequate return policy, and this has already been said here. as the migration crisis has subsided, it seems to us, and to me personally, that security is becoming less of a priority, and i think that's a mistake. i don't want to wait until we need more terrorist attacks and more violence to remind us that security must be part of the solution to migration. solidarity without security is not sustainable, so yes, let us be solidarity-minded, but let us put the security of the european union first.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr commissioner, venezuela suffered a coup last month and is now on the brink of civil war. more than 130 dead, more than 5,000 detentions and thousands of cases of torture since april alone. maduro continues to brutally repress his people and venezuelans continue to suffer. this has to stop now. i have been calling for targeted sanctions on behalf of my alde group since 2014. in recent weeks, president tajani and many others have spoken out in favour of this. but we still need one last push: to move from words to deeds. what are we waiting for? negotiations have failed time and time again. i urge the european union to take a firm stand against injustice and violence in venezuela. i urge you to impose targeted sanctions against the regime's leaders. i urge you to impose economic sanctions on venezuelan state-owned enterprises that keep the dictatorship alive. i urge the european union to demand that allegations of crimes against humanity in venezuela be investigated by the international criminal court.
mr president, i am very pleased to speak for my colleague mr pimentel lopes, because what he said seems to me to be from a completely different world. it's as if he didn't see the dying people protesting in the streets of venezuela, as if he didn't see the crackdown on the opposition, the suppression of legal demonstrations, as if he didn't see those imprisoned in venezuelan prisons, those tortured in those prisons. to me, these words were absolutely shocking as a series of statements made by colleagues from the left. as if you didn't see all this and didn't want to hear it. in my opinion, we should really say enough to these phenomena in venezuela. i would like to express my profound indignation at the actions of the greek and portuguese governments which make the european union inaccessible. i think we really should put sanctions in place, be more accessible and support ngos and the opposition in venezuela.
mr president, i would like to follow up on my colleague's report and also to thank the rapporteur for the report and for the positive approach he has taken to it. however, we cannot turn a blind eye to the problems facing latin america. while i appreciate that he has included suggestions from my group, for example, we must discuss the current problems that exist in brazil and venezuela, but also in other latin countries. i believe that this discussion must lead to some concrete proposals, including sanctions, condemnation of the regime in venezuela, because people are really dying there. this regime is completely undemocratic and we need to stand up clearly and loudly for the side we want to support. i don't think we can be toothless.
mr president, i also want to thank mr predo for presenting this report. i consider it to be of a very high quality. i also agree with mr van orden. there are less than ten of us here discussing the status report of a country which is on its way to becoming a superpower, thanks to the actions of mr. modi's government. that's a real shame. i appreciate the strong partnership of values that is given and is the foundation of the eu-india relationship. i was surprised by the extensive program of cooperation that the report describes. i would also like to support india in its security cooperation. that's what my colleague preda was talking about. china's assertive policy in the south china sea really needs a stronger response. we should stand up for the superpower that is democratic. that means both free trade and strategic partnership. these are the roles that befit the eu-india relationship.
mr. chairman, i'll be very brief. i would like to thank the rapporteur for presenting a very high-quality and lengthy report. in my opinion, it's so far-reaching that it really touched on aspects of corruption that i may not have even known about. i did not think it was important to consider that the requirements that the eu would put forward could play a very important role, for example, in the decision-making process on eu accession. i want to thank the reporter for that. i think we should have rules that are really general in dealing with third countries. we often give money to corrupt people in third countries. it's quite obvious in the context of development aid. or unfortunately - i hope unintentionally - we support with our money illegal trade, nepotism or trade in prohibited goods. i think it's really important to have clear, concise rules that we enforce in all cases and there are no such fundamental exceptions as we see here and there.
mr president, i would like to say that to president juncker: not bad at all. i think that this is something that i can very well work with on the czech domestic political scene. president juncker, you spoke about your life and having been a fighter. for me, on a different level, i have been going through a similar experience in the czech republic, and i think that, with this vision and with these ideas, i am happy to confront some of your former counterparts – politicians who have views from the first half of the 20th century. so thanks for that, even though there are, of course, some disagreements. but that is absolutely normal. let us forget the five scenarios. i think that we both know that three of them were not scenarios at all. i think that, if we now had the priority agenda, i would perhaps have wished that you had shortlisted two or three more. but i understand that we will find them in the report. but i think that the implementation of these priorities – the reform agenda that you have emphasised and that i subscribe to – will lead us to the outcome, and that is the sixth scenario: the european union that we want to have. maybe some will fall behind, but that, of course, remains to be seen. my final remark: unity. i believe, as you do, that we are in better shape, but if we still have a problem, it is a lack of unity in the council and a lack of ability on the part of the member states to deliver even on what they themselves have proclaimed before. one final remark, president juncker: i am not offended that you have forgotten the czech republic as a country that will also be a hundred years old next year. no offence taken.
madam president, i would like to thank president juncker for his speech. it is good to remind us about how things have changed since last year. just to remind all of us: growth is up, unemployment is down, employment is up, we have a stable financial sector and improved fiscal policy. this is just the economy; you mentioned more. you can say that these are just numbers, but these are not just numbers. this means that life for people in europe is better and that is what people expect from us. as you know from the past, the good times are exactly when people make a lot of mistakes. you urge us not to make mistakes during these good times and, instead, to do many good things. i agree and i appreciate it. one of the obstacles that i want to stress is that trust is still missing: trust among politicians, trust among people, trust among countries. i hope that in your next speech you will remind us that this has improved. this is very important. at the end of your speech, you mentioned that we should not be over-cautious. this is exactly the way to make mistakes and to miss opportunities. i hope we will not miss them.
in writing. i warmly welcome your words, mr president of the commission, that there must be no second-class citizens, whether workers or consumers, in the eu. when czech consumers were asked during a survey last year how they perceived the situation where a number of food manufacturers supply products with different compositions under the same name on the internal market, nine out of ten consumers said that this practice was a problem. no, the czech consumer does not have different expectations from the german one. i have been personally addressing this problem, which may seem uninteresting or marginal to some, for six years. thanks to the initiatives of the czech and slovak prime ministers, the commission, the member states and, i believe, the european parliament will also contribute with concrete proposals for solutions. the internal market is one of the main positive symbols of european integration. but citizens are increasingly aware that fair play is not always possible in the internal market. if we continue to pretend that there are no double standards, we are doing the heart of the european union project a disservice. the lost trust of the citizens, which we are talking about today, would be difficult to regain. i'm glad you realize that.
mr president, i have decided to support this report because i believe that we must continue to strengthen the european union's relations with india. i think we need to strengthen strategic partnerships in several areas. first, i welcome cooperation on foreign and security policy. i can also mention the fight against terrorism, for example, it is indian intelligence from a number of countries that helps us avoid some terrorist attacks. i would also like to highlight the fight against irregular migration and cooperation in maritime and cyber security. these are all things where we should join forces, and that's why i welcome this agreement.
mr president, i supported the amendments which strengthened the role of national experts in this regulation so that the member states themselves could have a say in the process of setting and reviewing the reference levels for managed forest land. i also decided to support the amendments tabled by mr linz on the content of the national accounting plan for forestry. i did not vote for the regulation itself in the end, i abstained, because i believe that it is not necessary to adopt a regulation on the inclusion of greenhouse gas emissions and removals from land use, land use change and forestry in the 2030 climate and energy policy framework. i believe that these matters can be regulated outside the legislative framework and that it is not necessary to expand the bureaucracy.
mr. chairman, i haven't been able to agree with my communist preacher for a long time, but she's absolutely right about what she said. i recognise the importance of this partnership and believe that one of the strategic priorities for the european union in tackling common challenges is the eradication of poverty, mass migration, organised crime or, more specifically, the drug trade. political cooperation is the only instrument that the european union can use at the moment to help latin america, which must respect human rights and adopt measures based on democratic principles and, in the fight against corruption, contribute to the building of an efficient public administration. the recent attacks on democratically elected officials, journalists and human rights activists are unacceptable. the european union must constantly fight against them.
mr. chairman, it's been two years since the dieselgate affair broke out. what happened in that time? the european union has introduced new testing rules, some of which we have already implemented, others of which are still pending. the manufacturers apologized and adapted to the new conditions. unfortunately, as part of the settlement process, there was a difference in the way european and american customers were treated. american customers are entitled to compensation, other european customers are not. it's a big topic and i think it needs to be re-evaluated. because european consumer confidence has plummeted to the point of freezing. there are diesel cars piled up in the warehouses that nobody wants. these are vehicles that meet the highest standards today and are certainly less polluting than the 15 year old cars that we usually see on the road. so a lot of the work today is on the products. they have to earn our trust back. but we, as lawmakers, should move quickly. there's no reason to hesitate to tighten up the conditions for car testing and all the related legislation. for the good of the consumer, the producers and the environment.
mr president, this scandal is the outcome of the failure of the car industry, economical, technical and moral, and a failure of our principle of the rule of law, and this is bad. we are talking about if the reaction was adequate. let me make three comments. first, i believe that the reaction of an individual government is not right. it is not the right response. it is a european problem, european people, european error, so it needs a european fix. second, still thousands of europeans are now everyday buying the cars that most likely are not in line with the law, especially diesels without scr, and that’s not good. these cars will be on the road for the next 15 years and they will be polluting. the only success is that we were able to adjust the type approval rules and introduce the real driving conditions. but at the end of the day, it seems to me nearly impossible to explain to all people that the reaction is adequate, because bad cars are still on the roads and health is suffering. sometimes the crisis by decisive action can be turned to an opportunity to success. i’m afraid we are not at this stage yet, unfortunately.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much for this discussion. i would also like to thank jyrki katainen for supporting me in this very challenging issue because i think – and this is also very visible in this room – that there is a basic division in our approach to the problem. part of our society, part of our governments, part of us in this room, share the opinion that we have to close our eyes, pretend that a transition in not ongoing, and protect and defend old technology. because this is old technology. the goal is the same. my goal is the same. i want to protect the industry. i want to protect jobs. i do not want to protect the old technology. we have been discussing this for two years and i think that perhaps even more discussion is needed to really understand that we are in the 21st century and the future of the automotive industry is the non-emission car or a low-emission car, not diesel cars. i know that this will not happen – i have said this many times and also in this room – from one day to the next. i know, and i understand, that every other car in europe is powered with a diesel engine, but this does not mean that we in this room – you as a parliament and us as a commission – should close our eyes and say that nothing has changed since two years ago when the emissions scandal broke. the scandal is not over yet because the industry, as many of you repeated, harmed the health of our citizens and our environment and then, afterwards – as many of you also mentioned – it compensated eu consumers less favourably than consumers elsewhere, forgetting that compensation should be for citizens and for consumers, not for ceos. this is also our role. we are working on this with commissioner jourová. i sometimes have a feeling that we have to protect and save the industry from themselves because this is all about a strong european car industry. this is all about the credibility and reputation of the european industry, which is now very weak. repeating that we love diesel engines will definitely not change that after what many of you have said. for more than two years both we in the commission and the parliament – thank you very much for this – have been working very hard to put an end to the scandals and enforce the rules. but of course, as we are also noticing, almost every week new allegations appear. as i have said many times before, member states are only sharing information at our strong request. some member states even claim that they somehow cannot enforce the current law because it is not clear enough. for me it is crystal clear that even our existing rules have been broken and are probably still being broken. on top of that, we already proposed a year and a half ago the new type-approval framework that should help in the future and should prevent such a situation. i have to say that i am disappointed that only this month have we finally managed to open a trialogue. this is much too slow, but we will have it. now that the trialogues have started, let us agree a high—quality new european framework by the end of this year. let us do our best, both in the council – i really count on the estonian presidency for this – and of course in the commission and the parliament. as we started the discussion in the emis committee, many of you asked for an eu agency. as you also know, i opposed the idea, but i have to admit – and i very much agree with you, mr eickhout – that maybe we should be more open on this because the most dangerous and biggest problems now are on—road cars. we will have a type-approval system. it is of course going very slowly, but finally we will have it, but what about the cars that are currently on the road? we really cannot force member states to take proper action. all the tools – as some of you have also said – are in their hands but they are not using them. they hesitate to do so. again let me stress that i am open about the european agency. i have to admit that i might have been wrong about this and that maybe i was too slow in my thinking. so let me stress what needs to be done now. first, i am determined to pursue the infringement procedures. we took a lot of those steps in may and in december, but we need to ensure the proper enforcement of the current type-approval legislation. second, as we all know, we have to finalise our work on the effective type-approval system as quickly as possible. some of you asked about the conformity factor. i can commit for now that i will also reduce the conformity factor of the second rde package by the spring, maybe also after discussing it with you. i will let you know by how much. many politicians, some in this room, claim to be shocked and disappointed with the industry, but these are empty phrases. in the european union for now words are not followed by actions and this is our problem. it is very easy to repeat that this is a lack of confidence in the industry, that this was a huge problem and that it was cheating, but we need to do something, as i have said before. member states themselves can bring down the emissions of the existing diesel fleet. they can properly enforce the existing law and, of course, the measures that are taken by the industry have to actually bring down emissions on the road and not only in laboratories. to do so we have to consider again software and hardware measures. that is why i am not fully satisfied with the results of the diesel summits in austria and germany because they are very limited to some parts – differently in austria and germany – but i think there is an urgent need to discuss it at the council. i will ask the estonian presidency to put this point on the agenda of one of the upcoming council meetings. i do not of course want the most polluting cars to end up in central and eastern europe, and you are right that this is the situation right now. for now only member states can prevent this. do not allow – this is my appeal to some member states – non-retrofitted cars to be registered on your territories. this is harmful for your citizens, for your environment and for your future. finally, let me close with what i think is a very important message because one of the most important things in this very complicated picture is the future of the automotive industry. in november we will present the next mobility package. this will aim to prepare the industry for the future. all of this future work must involve close and very fruitful engagement from the industry side. without the industry we cannot do it, but they have understood that the way they are going now is not a good way forward. this is not the way to the future. this is the way of the past. that is all from my side. i think both sides and all of us must work to get these changes right. i think we will meet more than once in the future.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, let me conclude by recalling that improving air quality means reducing a number of factors that are relevant in this respect. i would like to mention for instance co2 emissions that are of major importance for the protection of the climate, whereas nox emissions have direct effects on human health, and there is an inverse correlation between the two. as one decreases, the other one increases. we welcome the fact that work on co2 standards for cars and vans is ongoing to foster zero- and low-emission vehicles in a technology-neutral way. the infringement procedures recently opened by the commission against eight member states for breach of eu-type approval legislation are a testimony of the importance of monitoring whether eu law in this area is being properly enforced. furthermore, member states are called on to take all necessary measures to ensure that non-compliant cars are fixed or withdrawn from circulation. this shows again that we need to work hand in hand if we want to reduce emissions of air quality pollutants from road vehicles and thereby strengthen the health of european citizens and the environment. in this work, we have to consider concrete evidence which, among others, includes the work done by the emis committee and the inquiries by the commission.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on fire safety in buildings (2017/2764(rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, after the tragic accident of the grenfell tower in london, many have been asking what the commission is doing to ensure the fire safety of buildings. i therefore want to use this opportunity and the occasion of this plenary to clarify the responsibilities of the commission and the member states in this extremely important matter. fire safety is, of course, a complex issue, which is not determined only by the choice of the construction products or how those are tested. factors playing an equally crucial role are, for example, the general design of the building, the effectiveness of the installed fire detection, fire alarm and fire-fighting systems, the location of the building, potential fire accelerators inside or around the buildings, good maintenance – not mentioned here – of the fire-protection system, and of course, human behaviour. what is perhaps even more important, fire safety is crucially dependent on the effective enforcement of fire safety regulations at different levels, national, regional and local. today, under the subsidiarity principles, fire safety in buildings is regulated at the level of the member states. this is due to important differences in local conditions between member states. for example, certain member states do not allow flammable construction products to be used in buildings, while others have no such requirements. the eu should only undertake actions if the objectives of fire safety cannot be sufficiently achieved by the member states. today, the commission has no compelling proof that national regulations are not reaching this goal. for this reason we consider that it is not justified for the commission to regulate at eu level in order to ensure the fire safety of buildings. what are our commission’s competences? under the current rules the eu’s role is to make sure that construction products which have the necessary performance requested in given eu member states are not rejected. to enable this the eu sets common testing methods for specific products, not their safety requirements. thanks to this, member states set their own safety requirements for buildings. the commission is entrusted with the implementation of the construction products regulation. i will call it the cpr. the cpr is based on article 114 of the treaty on the functioning of the eu. under the cpr, the european performance tests include the examination of how construction products behave in fire in terms of reaction to fire, resistance to fire and the fire performance of roofs. furthermore, the energy performance of buildings directive requires member states to set minimum requirements for the thermal energy performance of buildings. this legislation does not limit the responsibility of member states to define requirements on construction products in the field of fire safety – quite the contrary. the various pieces of eu legislation should be applied coherently. therefore, member states may equally have requirements on fire safety regarding, for example, the spread of the flame or the emissions of smoke. over the last few years, the need for more energy-performing buildings has resulted in a large choice of new construction products being offered in the market for buildings, and their facades, which is equally important. these modern ways of construction like, for example, the external cladding system, creating a modern facade, and the need to renovate older buildings, have changed significantly the exterior of our buildings. they are thus a challenge to the regulatory authorities of the member states. moreover, new emerging issues of the fire performance of construction products which are not yet covered by the cpr are the smoke toxicity from construction products in fire and the fire performance of facades. so they are not yet covered by the cpr. for these two items, the commission already asked for independent studies long before the grenfell tower fire, and the results will provide very useful information i hope for the commission, for the member state authorities, and the construction industry alike. while fire safety is within member states’ responsibility, the commission offers to take a facilitating role and add value by bringing the relevant actors together. therefore, i can commit that we will set up a fire information exchange platform. this forum will facilitate, i hope, the exchange of information between the national authorities and the stakeholders. the platform is expected to examine the issues regarding the various fire safety practices of member states, lessons learned from the fire accidents in the eu and abroad, experience obtained from new products and technologies, as well as use of fire engineering principles for setting regulatory requirements. by learning from each other and by sharing information, member states’ authorities will have the full knowledge of the advantages and disadvantages of the regulatory choices they have to make. for this we need the broad participation of member states, open discussion of the issues encountered, independence and, of course, objectivity. we are therefore working in close cooperation with the presidency to organise the first meeting currently scheduled for 16 october, so in one month’s time. to conclude, let me say that the commission shares everyone’s concerns to ensure that our buildings are fireproof. as i said, the eu member states remain responsible for setting the level of fire safety in buildings on their territory, and to enforce their building regulations. we have no proof for now that national rules are not achieving this today. the commission is examining emerging new issues such as smoke toxicity and the fire behaviour of facades, and it evaluates the functioning of the internal market for construction products. we will act if eu intervention is needed, but not more than is necessary to ensure the single market of construction products. we are fully aware of the regulatory challenges posed to the member states’ authorities, therefore we believe that the exchange of knowledge and experience among authorities and stakeholders is very important, and we consider it a necessity. under the current framework, i believe that this is the best way to contribute to the protection of european citizens. i see the commission as a facilitator rather than the regulator in this area.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, first of all, let me express my deep sadness over the horrible tragedy of grenfell tower on 14 june in london. i would like to pay tribute to all the victims and their families. we have to bear them in mind while having today this very important discussion on fire safety. i commend commissioner bieńkowska for having given a thorough overview of the legislative regulatory arrangements that are in place in the field of fire safety in europe today. let me just add that the work of the commission on fire resistance needs to be continued and possibly intensified. both the european parliament and council, as co-legislators and as bodies controlling the legislative power of the commission have exercised their responsibilities and we are ready to continue to do so. i am convinced that the member states can follow up on that and that effective enforcement on product markets is possible, without any new shift in the competences or legal responsibilities. however, should the commission decide that a new proposal on the performance of construction products as part of harmonisation legislation is appropriate, the council will of course be examine such a proposal, in collaboration with the parliament. finally, outside the legislative work, the estonian presidencies supports the forthcoming platform on information exchange on fire safety issues. this is an initiative that had already been prepared by the commission for some months and that should fit well with other initiatives underway. i am looking forward to the discussion and thank you very much.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, every day there are 5 000 fire incidents in the eu. the horrors of grenfell tower have brought this to the media’s attention, but fire is something that affects the lives of eu citizens no matter where they live. for too long, we have said this is an issue of national competence. but while the devastation of fires might be local, the sources of what is burning is not. every part of your house, from the walls to the furniture inside, are products of the single market, and therefore national actions alone will not increase fire safety in the eu. commissioner, the time has come for the creation of a fire safety strategy for europe. we need an eu-wide action plan which includes a single eu system to collect comparable fire data and statistics among member states in order to identify recurring issues and risks; a cooperative forum between member states to share best practices; and reform of how we test products for fire safety, including for toxic smoke. like with vehicles, now is the time to take the tests out of the laboratory alone and to test against real life situations. commissioner, i know that the alde group is willing to revise current and on-going legislative work to ensure that we can get this right. my take-away from this debate is that you have the political support of parliament to act on fire safety, so i encourage you to do so.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, this discussion makes it crystal clear: we all know where we are in terms of the regulatory and legal arrangement here. the work of the commission in assessing the situation must be pursued and, if needed, intensified, and should the commission come out with a new proposal on it, i can reassure you that the council is ready to discuss.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for this exchange of views. i think it was very important for all of us to have it today. first things first, of course, i have to say that the commission and i personally share more of your concerns. i also share your conviction that the tragedy like the one in london must not happen again, and we have to do our best to ensure this. i want to conclude with three points. first, as i said before, for now we have no proof that national rules are not working but, of course, the commission is examining now the new issues which were mentioned by many of you like smoke toxicity and the fire-behaviour of facades with independent studies. i want the results of this work to be concluded and to have it before 16 october, so before the first meeting of our new fire information exchange platform. second, we will act when eu intervention is needed. of course, we treat our fire information exchange platform as a first step, and of course we can re-examine what else we can do after discussion between the member states and between the stakeholders – because industry will be an important stakeholder and an important partner in the platform. we can think about steps to be taken in the future. but of course, and this is my deepest conviction, we should do no more than is necessary to ensure the single market of construction products. so let’s wait until 16 october, and let’s discuss the issue. we do not have any proof that it’s not working now – there are national regulations that are not working but of course, the first thing is the national regulations and the second thing is enforcement of those regulations, and this also we should examine. these are the three points from my side and of course i am open to any comments and any discussion with you on this important issue.
the debate is closed, but the issue is not closed. i think it was clear today that we have just embarked on a process which will bring us back to the issue. may i also take this opportunity to extend sympathy and condolences, not just to our british colleagues, but especially to those who were enormously and tragically affected by the fire. written statements (rule 162)
in writing. – i call on the commission and the council to stop playing the competence alibi game and to agree to assess fire smoke toxicity. we know that fire smoke is not only responsible for half the deaths in building fires, it also represents long-term health risks for those who survive such tragedies, including those risking their lives to save others on a daily basis – firefighters. today, our health is at risk by failing to address this issue. we test construction materials for smoke opacity, but not toxicity. that’s wrong. buildings have changed radically since the construction products directive (cpr) introduction 17 years ago. combustible materials have replaced brick and metal; they burn quickly, releasing different amounts of toxic gases. conclusion: information about toxicity of burning construction materials must be available to our citizens, architects, traders so everyone can make informed decisions. why not add fire toxicity to the classification system of the cpr? with fellow meps, we proposed this at our conference in parliament two years ago. the commission’s response could have been quicker; nevertheless i encourage the commission during its current assessment of such idea and i ask the council to cooperate. we have been playing with fire too long.
the next item is the report by morten løkkegaard, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the accessibility requirements for products and services (com(2015)0615 – c8-0387/2015 – 2015/0278(cod)) (a8-0188/2017).
for the s&d group. mr president, the european accessibility act aims to make a significant contribution to deepening and making the internal market work more fairly. this proposal can significantly improve the quality of life not only of persons with disabilities but also of older citizens, for example, and contribute to their full participation in society. in the context of the digitalisation of european society, which we are actively promoting through a number of measures, it is particularly important to set up a non-discriminatory environment for vulnerable groups of the population from the outset. with an ageing population, it is expected that in a few years' time, there will be 120 million people in europe who are targeted by this legislation. i would like to recall that it was the european parliament that in the past called on the commission to come forward with an ambitious proposal, demanding that it cover all policy areas relating to the accessibility of goods and services for all citizens of the european union. the question therefore arises as to whether the text proposed by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection is sufficiently ambitious. not for us social democrats. we cannot accept the weakening of the commission's original proposal in its present form and it would be a defeat for the european parliament to enter into negotiations with member states with a weakened mandate. we therefore propose a number of amendments. for the public, the accessibility act should be a regulation that facilitates the use of common services and goods not only for people with disabilities, but also for the elderly or pregnant women, as mentioned above. the proposed measures should therefore take into account the needs of persons with functional limitations. we see great potential in establishing common requirements for making the built environment accessible. our aim is to help member states and the european union as a whole to meet their obligations under the united nations convention on access. i also think it is essential to clarify the relationship between the act and other legislation dealing with accessibility in a sectoral way. it is important to avoid overlapping or even duplication of requirements. however, existing legislation, for example in the field of transport, does not contain many accessibility requirements either, and here the act's irreplaceability should play a role. i also comment on the proposed exemptions taking into account the interests of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. please note that the commission proposal already allowed businesses to opt out of the accessibility requirements on the basis of the fulfilment of defined criteria, and we have further specified these criteria. the principle of better regulation, in my view, does not consist in granting a series of general exemptions, which leave the act as a wish on paper. we are about to vote on legislation that will allow ordinary services and goods to be used by european citizens without discrimination, on an equal basis. please, let's take this opportunity.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, as has already been said, there are currently over 80 million disabled people in europe. this number will continue to rise as the population ages. as a doctor myself, i know that people with disabilities often have difficulty accessing many of the key products and services. what we take for granted presents them with significant problems in their daily lives. the report by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection is not very helpful to them, and the final text is, in my view, weaker than the one the commission has come up with. for example, what good is a wheelchair user's access to an atm if he cannot get to a bank that is not accessible? or how can we talk about accessibility, for example, when many stations lack lifts for the disabled? i would therefore appeal to all those who care about the situation of disabled people, long-term ill people or elderly people and are not indifferent to their situation, to vote tomorrow in favour of proposals which aim at real improvements and not just cosmetic changes on paper. president juncker said here today that it is not acceptable to create different categories of citizens in europe. i couldn't agree more. it would be a shame if people with disabilities were second-class citizens.
mr. chairman, i agree with the report on the disability services directive. these people need our support to live better and more fully. i thank my colleagues, the members with disabilities, who have made their views clear in support of the motion for a resolution. we need to find a balance between what we want and what is practical. for example, the commission's original proposal would have prevented micro-enterprises from fulfilling certain obligations, for example, an independent small trader or bookseller would have decided to set up a website to sell his product and would have been obliged to make it fully accessible to people with disabilities, which is indeed not realistically possible in practice. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that this would be an unreasonable measure, even though there is nothing to prevent these traders from voluntarily making their websites available. we have done the same with the audiovisual directive, where we have taken measures to benefit disabled people.
mr. chairman, i would like to express my condolences to the families of the people who lost their lives, and to the people who lost their homes. the infrastructure of the islands is really badly affected. i think it's important to follow the principle: "he who gives quickly gives twice as much". i've noticed that even president trump, who we criticize very often here, including myself, has decided to provide very rapid relief to the affected areas. this should be a call for action by the commission. i know that the commission is trying to provide assistance, but the solidarity fund should, in my view, be more flexible. we have tried, in our committee on regional development, to ensure that the guarantees of greater flexibility are incorporated in the legislation. it would be good to strengthen this flexibility even more and we should strengthen the possibility of urgent interventions. article 198 does not seem to me to be quite sufficient.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his understanding approach. i agree with you, commissioner, that erasmus+ is the most successful european programme. it is an investment in our future. we would like to ask the commission about two very relevant points. what should be done to make the programme more accessible to more eu citizens? secondly, what financial and budgetary reforms are needed to enable this flagship eu programme to reach its ambitious goals? this debate is very topical. less than 5% of young europeans benefit from the programme due to socioeconomic factors and limited funding. erasmus+ is now facing increasing financial risks from other initiatives, such as the european solidarity corps. for this programme not to have any fresh money would be unacceptable for us. i welcome the fact that volunteering is emphasised in our resolution because this value has to be enhanced. erasmus+ has to be given priority and has to be more ambitious and reach more teachers, students, apprentices and volunteers, including people from disadvantaged groups. the question today is whether we are ready to fundamentally increase the budget of erasmus+ in the upcoming financial period. i am convinced we should do that. only then will the erasmus+ programme be more inclusive and become a real investment in our future. my last point is on the european student card, which is in the resolution. it is now up to the commission to find a feasible solution and to take into account that the international student card already exists as a functional tool. erasmus+ is our common opportunity – let us invest in our future!
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, in these times of growing protectionism, the european union should, now more than ever, persevere in its mission to promote a free trade agenda with like-minded partners, and i can think of few better examples than chile. chile and the european union share many common values, including in the field of trade. our shared vision has enabled both sides to take full advantage of the eu-chile association agreement. since the agreement entered into force in 2003, our trade has more than doubled. there is no doubt that the association agreement has brought us many opportunities and benefits for our businesses and citizens, but this agreement is already obsolete and it is now that we have to reflect the reality of today. there are several elements of our trade that we can and should improve. progress is very important in the area of services, for example, but also in others such as non-tariff barriers, sanitary and phytosanitary standards, access to public procurement, agricultural products and digital trade. we should also introduce new individual chapters devoted to topics of importance to our current trade. in particular, chapters on investment, intellectual property rights, energy and smes. it's time to move forward in our relations with chile. this report is a clear vote of confidence in the process of modernising the agreement by this house and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work. and i also hope that the council will approve the mandate to negotiate modernisation as soon as possible and start negotiations this year.
the commission's communication on the future of the european union's skills agenda is a welcome example of the way in which the european union can contribute to the development of the skills agenda. the agenda focuses on one of the most significant and important current issues determining our future prosperity and competitiveness in europe. we have been advocating this key issue and its promotion as a european priority for a long time in the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe. i would like to begin by thanking my colleague, momchil nekov, co-rapporteur of the report for the committee on culture and education. on the question of new skills, i have to say that the cooperation between the committees was absolutely crucial. just as we cannot talk about employment without reference to the education needed, we cannot think about education without knowledge of the perspectives and needs of the labour market. thank you to all colleagues for your helpful cooperation, your input and your exchange of views. i am very pleased to see the interest in our report and it shows that we are not indifferent to the issue of employment and the future of young people's employment in europe. we live in an age of explosion of knowledge and new technologies, but the knowledge and skills we learn in school are quickly becoming obsolete. more than half of the 12 million longterm unemployed lack adequate qualifications and skills. up to 20% of europeans do not have adequate literacy skills and even 40% of europeans have no digital skills. they therefore represent a vulnerable group in the labour market. on the other hand, highly qualified young people are in jobs that do not match their skills and ambitions, which is frustrating and demotivating. the paradox of the labour market is that at the same time more than 40% of employers have great difficulty in finding graduates with the right skills and qualifications. what's wrong with this, you ask, like me? the fault lies in a poorly designed education system that fails to respond flexibly to the current needs of employers. putting out the fire with operational measures is no longer enough. we have to change the whole system. and we need to change the way we look at the european labour market. we need to link education systems with current labour market needs and provide students with not only theoretical but also practical training during their studies. some old professions are disappearing altogether, and, on the contrary, technological developments are creating entirely new professions. who will fill these positions if schools are not prepared for these changes? the report therefore focuses on several priorities that help to align training practices with labour market needs. i believe that for a graduate to successfully enter the labour market, the cooperation of all actors, including employers, is necessary, starting with education and training, and the acquisition of practical experience, or 'learning on the job'. it is this practical experience and familiarity with the work environment that can be very useful when applying for your first job. support the development of stem skills, which must be taught alongside the integration of new technologies in education, the development of soft and managerial skills and encourage young people to be entrepreneurial from an early age. but at the same time, let us not forget to promote craft skills and work together to make apprenticeships and technical education more attractive to young people. one of the great challenges and opportunities is the rapid development of digitisation. in ten years' time, 90 percent of all jobs will require some level of digital skills, and we need to prepare for that. this is why the report highlights the need for quality lifelong teacher education and strong pedagogical leadership. i believe that investing in teacher professional development and attracting and motivating new teachers is key to developing skills. the adoption of the above measures is a necessary step if our economy is to continue to grow and remain competitive.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, our report should help with implementation of the 10 measures of the new skills agenda in order to strengthen human capital, employability and competitiveness. our approach respects the key role of the member states and the real possibilities and competences of the eu. skills are key to the future competitiveness of our economy. we have to address the problem of around 17 million european adults who lack basic skills. we point out that our priority should be to strengthen our human resources, not only for better employability but also for the personal development and success of europeans as individual human beings. for better skills, we need better teachers. this is essential and i am glad that the report puts much emphasis on their role and their better conditions. i think this is crucial. we highlight the need to develop the skills that are necessary on the labour market. i would like to thank both my co-rapporteurs for their constructive spirit.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank all those who have spoken in this important debate. with the right skills, people are equipped for quality jobs and can fulfil their potential in the labour market and in society as confident and active citizens. with the right skills, our companies can thrive, invest and innovate, contributing to the virtuous circle of job creation and growth. these are two sides of the same coin: making sure that people can acquire the skills they need to improve their chances for better employment and that they can update these skills to better face job transitions, and equipping europe to compete and succeed, now and in future, in the global economy. with this report, parliament has underlined the need to continue our joint efforts to tackle the skills challenge. we welcome your commitment to supporting the implementation of the skills agenda, both in europe and in your home countries. on 20 november, we will launch the second european vocational skills week. our message is: ‘discover your talent!’. we want to improve the attractiveness and image of vocational and educational training. we look forward to working together with you to spread this message at european, national, regional and local levels.
the newswoman. thank you colleagues for your helpful comments and insights. we are talking about the future, about a new generation of knowledge and skills that will boost employment and our competitiveness. we must all have the ambition to raise self-confident citizens, modern europeans, who are well prepared for life and who are not afraid to take responsibility for themselves and for others. i believe that our report is the first step on that road. the basic needs have already been defined and we know which direction to take. what europe needs is a new set of educational systems. a system that will respond flexibly to the changes that are inevitable today. of course, many of you have said that the linking of education systems with the current needs of the labour market is necessary and, of course, must be balanced. i would like to reassure my colleague, maru bizzott, that in working on this report we have been thinking of our younger generation and they are our first priority. i do not understand why the honourable member is insulting these young people by using the debate on their future purely for the political ends of her extreme right, which is also evidenced by the fact that she is no longer in the chamber. but i would like to make one final point. the idea that the development of the european labour market is something far away that does not concern us is wrong. now is the best time to discuss the future, and now is the time to act. today, not tomorrow, said my favorite, successful businessman and manager tomáš batya. so let's give the new skills agenda the attention it deserves today, not tomorrow, and let's not put off these changes that we really need to make today.
madam president, we in the czech republic certainly also want to diversify energy sources, but this must be in line with the spirit and objectives on which our european union is built. it is clear that this project is not in line with those objectives. he's threatening our energy security. he's increasing his dependence on russia and threatening ukraine and actually denying the sanctions we've taken in connection with russia's aggression in eastern ukraine. it's also against the paris climate agreement in its consequences. i think we need to be clear about who's behind this project. to my surprise, a former german chancellor who was very pro-european and now works for russia's mercenaries. i am very grateful for the opinion that has been put forward by the commissioner, because it is a clear position of the commission with a clear explanation. the new government will be formed in the czech republic after the october elections, and i am very much looking forward to seeing what position it takes on this particular issue of nordstream 2.
mr president, i would also like to welcome the representatives of the cambodian opposition who are here with us today. arresting the leader of the opposition and charging him with treason and espionage is truly an extraordinary act. the court in phnom penh said it was a charge of conspiring with foreigners. such a vague and unfounded accusation is, in my opinion, unprecedented. if the long-time prime minister of this country, mr. hun sen, gives the reasoning and says that this is a secret conspiracy with the united states of america, then i think that at that moment such a position fulfills the position against the rule of law. i think that's something we should condemn unequivocally. we are providing aid to cambodia, we should make it clear that we do not like this procedure, that it is not possible to influence the political election in this way. i want to support the request for an observation mission.
mr. chairman, i also want to join the voices condemning the arrest and imprisonment of opposition leader kem sokha and the attacks against his party, the total tightening of the screws on the media and non-profit organizations. the cambodian national rescue party, which is under attack, is promoting a policy of diversion from china and a lean towards the western liberal model. that's why she's uncomfortable for china and the prime minister. prime minister hun sen, who has ruled the country for over 30 years, is leading his country back to dictatorship. cambodia is a country with great potential, but also a very troubled history, especially during the khmer rouge tyranny. i wish that the people of this country could live freely and develop to their full potential. our resolution should support the democratic opposition and its leaders here.
for the ppe group. mr president, even if the resolutions against gabon have not been very successful so far in terms of results, we should not give up and we should continue to respond to the use of violence and the abuse of justice against political opponents, to electoral fraud, to the restriction of freedom of speech or the restriction and persecution of the opposition in general. the european union must aim to help gabonese citizens develop democracy and civil society with credible and widely accepted independent institutions. the rule of law is not an extension but a prerequisite for the prosperity we wish the citizens of gabon. this position must be consistently applied by the european union, and in particular by those member states with influence in gabon, in all fora and be more clearly expressed in bilateral negotiations.
the author. commissioner, it will be very difficult for me to follow up on what has already been said here, because everything has been said here. we, as members of parliament from all political groups, have come together to condemn the regime in laos, which has consistently and fairly persistently violated every human right that we can think of. i would like to start this speech by saying that according to the latest ranking of the economist magazine, laos is at the very bottom of the democracy index. it is well known that there are frequent arrests for dissenting opinions, for posting on social networks, including the case of these three people. but we could take the example of dozens of other people who are being persecuted for the sake of freedom of speech. commissioner, i believe that this pressure and this connection between us will help to get these people out of prison, as has happened in many cases. i would therefore ask you to explain this position of the european parliament to the lao government.
the ppe group. madam president, women and men have equal rights, and yet women have a weaker economic position, lower incomes and lower representation in management. it's unfair to women and ineffective for society. so it's right that we look for ways to support women. we must strictly adhere to the principle of equal pay for equal work and enforce anti-discrimination legislation. i also personally welcome the european commission's latest proposal to improve the possibilities for shared parental care. however, i did not vote for the draft report we are now discussing in the femm committee. we cannot improve the economic status of women by simply putting women to work and preventing them from having children and being mothers. that would be a big mistake. we improve the economic status of women by giving them access to quality education, by giving them financial rewards for childcare during maternity leave and parental leave. by allowing mothers to apply their education and pursue their profession, by motivating employers to take on part-time jobs. we will promote women's economic status by recognizing the value of their motherhood and allowing them to choose freely between parenting and career.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for presenting this report, because i think it has been very clear on the points which have already been raised. in my opinion, this cliff has been a very good one for your colleague. i see the value of civil society in those developing countries as the very heart of democracy, as a really key value that we should help develop. the role of the european union in these countries is absolutely indispensable and we should not only help these entities in the diplomatic area but also, of course, in the financial area, as the honourable member has mentioned. and our active defense will pay off in the international diplomatic arena. i believe that if we can target our development aid well to these countries and to support these developing societies, it will pay off in the long run.
madam president, more and more citizens in the eu have an e-mail address and electronic communication has become a necessity, but of course it has great risks. the rapporteur, mrs vozemberg, has spoken about them and i want to thank her very much for her report. recent attacks in the form of ransomware, or ransomware, have shown that this situation can affect many people. last year alone, more than 4 000 ransomware attacks were carried out in the eu in a single day. it is precisely the defence against cybercrime that is the area where cooperation at eu level is desired and welcomed by citizens and can better protect not only state institutions but also, and above all, the most vulnerable in the online environment, such as children and the elderly. i would like to remind you that just this month, on 13 september 2017, the commission adopted a package of measures to tackle online crime.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her very comprehensive report, it has many aspects. i would like to focus on just one aspect, and that is the issue of electoral risks in the context of cyberattacks. i am glad that the eu has addressed this issue at the current summit or special conference under the estonian presidency. it is important to me that these attacks, which can take on very dramatic proportions in the context of elections in individual member states, that we really address them. they have a few implications for me, of course, in the election campaign and then in the counting of the votes. the potential for cyberattacks to influence the outcome of elections is indeed significant. so we need to build a resilient system that is integral, and secondly, to be at the forefront of professional development, which means being leaders in the field. it's the only thing that's going to save us from the future and from possible cyberattacks.
madam president, i am glad that there is an asean-type organisation in the south-east asian region. i believe that there is a great need for cooperation and mutual assistance in this area. winter is coming, and during that time, there were massive fires in indonesia in late 2015. over 5,000 miles long, more than two million acres of rainforest were burned. the fire in three weeks has released more co2 into the atmosphere than germany can handle in a year. the blame was on irresponsible palm oil production. sixty-nine million people in indonesia and borneo breathed polluted air, and thousands paid for these fires with their lives. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to appeal to asean and eu countries to help indonesia with fire prevention so that no fires occur this year. we have only one planet and we have a shared responsibility for it, and we must never forget that.
madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. because i think he did a tremendous job, and i want to thank everyone who contributed to this report, because it's very balanced in my view. it has already been mentioned here that asean is our third most important trading partner, but nobody here has mentioned that we are asean's second most important trading partner and that there is a need to further deepen dialogue and develop trade relations. what i would say to the commissioner, and what he should take away from this dialogue with the commission, is that we want to develop this political dialogue, we want to bring up human rights issues. in many asean countries, the issues of human rights and the rule of law are, unfortunately, empty words. and besides that, we need to talk to the states about the environment, about greater security, and maybe even about the issue of innovation.
madam president, i want to emphasize that the mutual commercial relations of this exchange make this area very important for both sides. the rapporteur emphasised this by saying that the indo-pacific is indeed strategic for the eu, and i think that the eu's opportunity is multiplied by the trump administration's clearing of the area. this is a huge opportunity for the eu, i think that mr. trump's policy is clearly wrong, and we should strengthen our diplomatic capacity to take advantage of this weakness, because it is an opportunity, again, for the eu. in this context, i would like to recall that at the last plenary session we also discussed india, which is also a strategic country for europe, without a debate in the late evening. i think it would really emphasize the role and the significance of these places, these countries, if we were to have a conversation in the proper context, not in this way.
in writing. asean recently celebrated its 50th anniversary. it is similar in population to the eu, and it should be noted that some of its problems are similar, if not identical. 40 years since the first eu-asean relations were established, we have seen positive developments in cooperation in a number of areas. however, as in the eu, some countries are faced with human rights and non-citizen abuse. large stateless communities are currently found in brunei, the philippines, thailand, malaysia and especially myanmar. it is about the rohingya, whose situation is worse in asean countries than it is for stateless citizens in eu countries. unfortunately, the report doesn't mention any of that. it should be noted that in the long term, several tens of thousands of non-citizens also live in eu countries, namely latvia and estonia. these noncitizens even have identity documents, such as passports, with a noncitizen designation. one of the big issues in asean is environmental protection and fighting piracy. in the south china sea, there is a long-running conflict between asean countries and asean countries and china. but the eu is not immune to similar problems. the international arbitration between slovenia and croatia in the gulf of piran is a similar conflict in a small way. both sides, the eu and asean, should be called upon to address the problems identified.
madam president, allow me to draw your attention to the situation in turkey. i visited this country ten days ago despite the fact that the official ep delegation to turkey was cancelled, which i categorically disagree with. i wanted to see how turkey is integrating more than three million refugees. i was very positively surprised by the efforts, the successful results of those who are taking care of refugees in turkey on the ground, from the public sector, from schools to employers. here too, eu funds are being used very well to help those who need them. unfortunately, all this contrasts with the fact that i have to say that the political situation in turkey is not good. i had the opportunity to speak with the family members of imprisoned journalists, representatives of persecuted academics, and advocates of imprisoned activists from buyukada island. i want to support from this place their struggle for democracy and turkey's return to the values of the rule of law, civil and human rights. today, october 2nd, is the world day of nonviolence, in commemoration of the birth of mahatma gandhi. let's support the turkish people and our friends in their... (the president withdrew from the debate)
madam president, i have to comment today on the horrifying images we saw from catalonia on sunday. these images are so shocking that everyone has to ask themselves: are these images from an eu member state? to use rubber bullets against peaceful voters who hold the maximum number of ballots in their hands, that is a sight i would expect from russia, not a democratic eu state. we can't just keep quiet, i'm not going to. i am here in the european parliament as a member of the european people's party, which also includes my spanish colleagues, who were elected on the same ticket as mr rajoie. i am aware that the question is an internal matter of a member state, and of course it is a matter of spanish constitutional law. however, the number of wounded forces all of us in the european people's party to condemn this reckless action. i want to condemn it today with all my strength and i want to call the spanish government to account.
madam president, commissioner, i am very pleased that you are sitting here today, because i would like to draw attention to a problem that has not been discussed much in this european parliament. and these are the results of operation opson, which was conducted under the auspices of europol and interpol, and during which 10,000 tons, 27 million liters, 13 million pieces of potentially harmful food were seized in 61 countries. commissioner, this is a rather serious problem. we are dealing with food crime here, and unless we set up some kind of office to coordinate the action against food crime, the lives of eu citizens could be at risk very soon. we have examples of salt being put in food, which is used to maintain roads. we have examples of meat being smuggled. i think something needs to be done about it, and i think maybe europol or the eeas is... (the president withdrew from the debate)
madam president, we knew from the very beginning that the negotiations on the uk's withdrawal from the european union would not be easy. the main problem, however, is that the eu does not have an equal partner at the other end of the table. the british government is mired in internal conflict and the situation on the british political scene is very confusing. prime minister may is asking the eu for creative solutions, but she's not bringing anything to the table. boris johnson repeats the lies about the mythical 350 million and eu citizens in the uk and britons in the eu are still drowning in uncertainty about their post-brexit rights. citizens are once again forced to watch power and party games that can have a profound impact on their lives and future. i agree that a deal is necessary, but it's high time we did it. citizens cannot be held hostage, and we cannot allow that to happen.
madam president, first of all, i must say i deeply regret the decision of the uk to leave the eu. the uk in this way abandons a community of more than 500 million people, a community that has an essential role in the future of our continent and the world. the economic impact of that is just one small part of the problem, but it is an important one. let me illustrate that in numbers: the uk, by leaving the single market, will make it complicated for its businesses to join and use the market of 450 million people, while the opposite way around this is just 65 million people. in today’s interconnected and highly effective world, any uncertainty means job losses, lower wages and budget and investment problems. unfortunately, for the time being, it seems to me that we are not on the way to reducing this uncertainty. the reason is that while the eu 27 has quite a clear negotiating position, it seems to me that the uk side of the negotiation table is trying to square a circle. we know that squaring a circle is not possible, and we have known that for more than 100 years. it is time to act. it is important that we can move forward, and the recent speeches by the uk prime minister show the possibility to get improvement, but they must understand that there are some limits and some conditions that must be fulfilled. this is the only way to reach progress and reduce the cost and uncertainty of brexit. the cost will be there, but it depends on whether it is high or low. i hope it will be low!
mr president, i believe that the european parliament must send a clear signal today in response to those citizens who are living in uncertainty. whether it's the 3.2 million citizens of the member states living in the united kingdom, or the united kingdom citizens living in the member states, which is 1.2 million. we say that a transitional period is possible, but it must be preceded by an agreement on all the essential issues and that the acquis communautaire will apply during this transitional period. so the european union is proving its accessibility and its responsiveness to the major problems, while the united kingdom is not clear. i think it is also a clear signal to populist and separatist efforts in other member states. in conclusion, i want to say that brexit is a disappointment to me, all the more so because we have to try to make our relationship as good as possible in the future, to be able to work together, it is a commitment to those who voted against brexit.
i think it is important, madam president, that the european parliament has adopted this resolution, even with a large majority, 558 members voting in favour. this is important because the ep will ultimately have a say on the outcome of the eu-uk deal. it is therefore important information on political agreement on the next step in the negotiations. the resolution rightly emphasises the rights of eu citizens in the uk and ensuring that these rights are respected is one of the main tasks facing the union. these tasks undoubtedly also include maintaining the uk's participation in programmes such as erasmus+ and horizon 2020. it is in the interests of the citizens of both the eu and the uk. i also fully agree with the approach adopted in the report with regard to northern ireland. it is necessary that the border on the island of ireland remains open after brexit and, if that is to be the case, the possibility of northern ireland itself being part of the customs union and the internal market is looming.
madam president, allow me to comment on my vote today, in which i voted in favour of this report, but with one important aspect in mind: i still lack concrete expression in it on how the eu budget will be financed in the future. we have not yet agreed on the parameters of how we will cooperate with the united kingdom, and therefore how the united kingdom will participate and what specifically it will do in european politics. and that, i think, is important not only for the budgeting for next year, but especially for the budgeting for the uk leaving. i would therefore urge the negotiators in particular, and the united kingdom, to take this aspect into account and to try to reach an agreement as soon as possible.
madam president, let me explain why i did not vote for this report, even though i have long been an advocate for the elimination of discrimination against women and for the appreciation of women as mothers and their parental care. i believe that we can promote women's economic empowerment by recognizing the value of motherhood and parenting, by allowing them to choose between parenting and a career. unfortunately, this report does not go in that direction. unfortunately, this is beyond the scope of what can be dictated to member states and companies. for example, it proposes measures for companies to be required to monitor wage differentials. i also could not agree with the requirement to introduce cvs without gender or, for example, to have all economic models and tax policies take a gender perspective into account. this report is also stereotypical in that it introduces sexual and reproductive health into women's economic empowerment.
madam president, i would like to say that the european institutions have experienced several cyber attacks in recent years. and i think that's why they shouldn't underestimate cybersecurity. in many countries, specialised agencies have been set up, but i think there is still a lack of cooperation between the different authorities in the member states and an effort to really tackle these threats as a whole eu. then there's the huge problem of cyberbullying. it is a problem that receives little attention and is faced by pupils and very often by teachers and school heads. and besides repression, i want to say that i appreciate that this report mentions prevention, because i think prevention, especially in the family, when we explain that some things are not posted or written on the internet, is very important.
madam president, i supported this report because it is true that cyberspace poses a very serious danger for the future. i am very pleased that the rapporteur has dealt with it in her extensive report and that it has received such cross-party support across all political groups. i am also pleased that the eu is taking this issue seriously and seriously at a time when a special conference on this subject was held in estonia. i would choose two circumstances that i think are very relevant to the report. first, the eu must be a leader, it must be at the forefront of expertise, because expertise is the prerequisite for dealing with the threats posed by cyberattacks. and secondly, it's important that the systems that we build are as resilient as possible, to be integral. and third, of course, it's important to inform citizens about these threats so that they're prepared for possible attacks.
madam president, i would like to say that the development of relations with asean is a step in the right direction. but it must be said on this occasion that the development of relations is not only economic, but must also be political. we need to have a fairly open dialogue on human rights with a number of asean countries. i am not just talking about the rohingya situation, but we need to talk openly with countries like vietnam or laos about what is happening in those countries and how human rights are being suppressed. i personally see a huge opportunity in asean. now that the united states has started to withdraw from this part, i think europe can invest quite well here. and he has a very good reputation here, so i believe that relations with these countries will continue to be strengthened.
madam president, i would like to say that i am very pleased that mr bütikofer has drawn our attention to the strategic importance of the asean countries to us. it's actually the third most important economic destination for our investment, and i think that's very important to highlight here. that is why i supported the report. i want to emphasize the role of this area, that is, the asean countries in the fight against terrorism. i think it's important that we mention that. and i also want to end by stressing the fact that america is clearing this space, i consider it a mistake, it is a diplomatic opportunity for the european diplomatic service and for us.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, as a long-standing member of the delegation for cooperation - i emphasise the word 'cooperation' - eu-moldova, i can only welcome the fact that the eu is systematically contributing, not just financially, to the assistance and development of moldova. moldova has been a member of the eastern partnership since its inception in 2009. and i like to hear the words that this is a partnership not against someone, but for cooperation. i regret to say that so far expectations have not been met, either by the eu or by the moldovans themselves. moldova remains the poorest country in europe, corruption is rampant, the state is run by de facto oligarchs and civil society remains unheard of. we have expected from all previous governments the necessary changes in the judiciary, the fight against corruption and organized crime. the internal organization of a state is certainly a matter for each state, but a rational person must ask whether the planned concentration of power in the hands of a single person is all right. i believe that we should evaluate the effectiveness and benefits of the eastern partnership project for all stakeholders. i want to emphasise that the gateway to the balkans moldova should not become a place of simmering conflict or a second ukraine.
ladies and gentlemen, alexander solzhenitsyn once wrote that no creature in the world suffers as much as a russian woman. i can still see russian women in cotton coats climbing the railroad tracks. solzhenitsyn looked no further than solovka and magadan. he didn't see the millions of women in africa and asia who suffer from primitive male violence, starving, abused and humiliated. they are circumcised and married off as children. it's the living creatures that suffer the most. i made a film about women in afghanistan once. one of the heroes was a woman who had 13 children. after the 13th child, the doctor told the husband: 'your wife will not survive another pregnancy.' she got pregnant again and died. her husband gave birth to her to death. she was pregnant for the first time when she was 15. today, there are over 700 million women in the world who were married as children. every year, 15 million girls are forced into marriage before they turn 18. 60% of child brides in developing countries are illiterate because they are denied the right to education. islamophobia sweeping europe is highlighting child marriage as inherent to the islamic faith. i dare say that's not true. the largest numbers of child marriages are in non-muslim countries, like india, brazil, ethiopia. violence against child brides is a non-denominational problem.
ms forenza, i do apologise to you but i would take this opportunity to remind the members that we are behind schedule, the time has been allocated and has to be respected. i will follow that up but let us also pay some respect to those who have asked for catch-the-eye time and possibly for blue cards. we want to have a debate, so from now on i will be even stricter than i have been up to now.
commissioner, this debate clearly shows that the problem has two aspects. child marriage in third countries and child marriage at european union level. the first area, child marriage in third countries, requires that we put strong pressure on our partners to accept the istanbul convention. but the issue of child marriage as a principle of human rights violation should be much more embedded in our european diplomacy. when dealing with our partners, we should not only address the issue of freedom of speech, the death penalty, or other forms of human rights violations. but we should also address this right, which is a woman's right to self-determination and a woman's right as an adult to be free to decide whether or not to enter into marriage. it's about our diplomacy in dealing with our partners, in providing financial assistance to third countries, to include this as one of the conditions for us to provide any economic assistance to those countries. the second thing is child marriage in the eu. as mentioned earlier, the number is increasing as more migrants enter the eu. and here i personally regret that the resolution we are voting on tomorrow, in paragraph 14, only says that child marriages in the eu must be properly monitored. i would expect a much stronger condemnation, i would expect the result to be the european initiative already mentioned, which will clearly prohibit any tolerance of child marriage within the eu and will criminalize child marriage within europe. we can handle this in europe.
colleagues, we now come to catch the eye. even if i am very generous i will not be able to provide speaking time to more than half of those colleagues who have applied to speak because the list is very long. catch-the-eye procedure
colleagues, just by way of explanation, i have seen some colleagues asking for catch-the-eye after the catch-the-eye debate has started. i am not in a position to take those requests. by the way, this does not concern you, ms vautmans. i am just saying it as a general remark: looking at you does not mean it is about you! but seriously, i cannot take those requests, not least because we are behind schedule and the list is very long. so, my apologies, but the moment catch-the-eye starts we cannot even put your name on the list to give you the floor.
mr president, commissioner, in developing countries, one in three girls are married before the age of 18 and one in nine before the age of 15. the problem of child marriage affects both girls and boys, but girls, who represent 82 percent of married children, are most at risk. the problem is not only in third countries, but also in europe. i'm sorry to use such strong words, but i find child marriage to be an absolutely unacceptable perversion. for example, authorities in germany registered 1,500 children who were married last year. this is completely unacceptable, because it is not possible for us to accept child marriages in the eu, which are totally against european law. children belong in schools, not in barns, and this is a principle from which there is no way to deviate in the eu. this practice must end if we are to continue to consider ourselves a place with a certain moral and civilized dimension. and this debate should prepare for the future with very concrete measures to prevent it within the eu, and i firmly believe that this will happen, commissioner.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this very interesting and very alarming debate. on 30 june this year a great step was taken as the convention, the istanbul convention which has been mentioned here many times in the discussion, was signed on behalf of the eu. the decision on the conclusion is currently being negotiated in the council, and i can assure you that the commission is working very closely with the estonian presidency to achieve progress towards ratification. i can assure you that i will use every possible moment and opportunity to discuss with those states which have not yet ratified, to do so. on behalf of the commission i can say that we are very grateful for the considerable support for accession expressed by parliament on many occasions.
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 128(5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 4 october 2017. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the eu-egypt partnership priorities for 2017—2020 (2017/2874(rsp)).
thank you, colleague. my apologies on behalf of those of us who are sitting here. you really had two minutes but there was a mistake in the papers. i give you our apologies.
colleagues, from now on and in future, the moment you exceed the time and continue speaking i shall see that as a mark of disrespect to your colleagues, so next time i will cut you off exactly to the second, regardless of the colleague concerned or the political group.
before i give the floor to the commissioner i would like to express my appreciation for one thing across the political spectrum today, namely the emphasis on respect for human rights and on the clause in international agreements. i would appreciate it if we remembered this debate, because sometimes some of us deviate from that central principal. i note this with much appreciation, but we need to apply it across the board, with all international agreements. (end of catch-the-eye procedure)
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i think this has been a very useful exchange and i thank the honourable members for their contributions. many of you have addressed the different problems relating to human rights. human rights are an integral part of our partnership priorities and we address the situation not only through bilateral dialogue, silent diplomacy and formal demands, but also through public statements, including in multilateral forums such as the human rights council in geneva. the european union, in its position for the eu-egypt association council, has raised clear concerns regarding the blocking of websites and the ongoing pressure on human rights organisations and defenders. it calls on egypt to comply with its commitments to promote freedom of expression, association and assembly, as well as the freedom of the press, as guaranteed by the 2014 constitution and according to its international obligations. this position was also expressed in the recent european union statement at the human rights council, under item 4. some of you referred to the case of the egyptian lawyer ibrahim metwaly. this is a case that the european union is following very closely, and one we have raised with our egyptian counterparts at a high level both in cairo and in brussels. we have stressed the need to allow human rights defenders to carry on their work, including cooperation with the united nations human rights agencies and mechanisms, without intimidation or harassment, in line with egypt’s international obligations and with the guarantees enshrined in the egyptian constitution for democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms. this message, as well as the need to shed light on the circumstances of the death of giulio regeni, was clearly expressed in our statement to the association council, and in the recent european union statement at the human rights council in geneva. you can count on us to continue to insist on this in our contacts with our egyptian counterparts at all levels. some of you also referred to the lgbti situation. the present position is that the arrest of an increasing number of people after the concert of rock band mashrou’ leila in cairo and sentences of one to six years in prison for so-called ‘practices of debauchery’ are not in line with egypt’s commitments to promote freedom of expression as guaranteed by the 2014 constitution, nor with egypt’s international obligations. freedom of expression is essential in a democratic society, and we call on egypt to take active measures to promote it and to abide by its national and international commitments in that regard. the european union wishes to reaffirm its commitment to freedom of expression, and to the quality and dignity of all human beings, irrespective of their sexual orientation and gender identity. finally, regarding the situation of ibrahim halawa, his acquittal is welcome news and a relief for his family, for ireland and for the european union. the commission was particularly pleased to hear that ibrahim was finally acquitted after four years in pre-trial detention. this is a case that the european union has been following very closely and one we have actively raised with the egyptian authorities, in coordination with and support of the irish government’s efforts. nonetheless we remain concerned about the use of a mass trial in which 442 defendants received heavy prison sentences: this is not in line with egypt’s human rights obligations. the european union looks forward to the appeals and expects egypt to uphold its national and international commitments to due process and fair trials. to conclude this debate, i think that we all agree on the importance of our partnership with egypt, even if there are different views on how to take it forward. as i have stressed before, we now need to approach it in a coherent and comprehensive way in order to make the best out of it in the interests of egyptians and europeans. we will continue to look at how best to achieve progress on the four tracks of our partnership, and to use all the instruments available to us to foster a system of stability, growth and social and economic development in the country. we count, too, on parliament’s support to contribute to the success of this partnership and its concrete impact on our people.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on– the oral question to the council on the 2017 un climate change conference in bonn, germany (cop23) by adina-ioana vălean, peter liese, gilles pargneaux, julie girling, gerben-jan gerbrandy, estefanía torres martínez, marco affronte, mireille d’ornano and piernicola pedicini, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o—000068/2017 – b8—0329/2017) (2017/2620(rsp)), and– the oral question to the commission on the 2017 un climate change conference in bonn, germany (cop23) by adina-ioana vălean, peter liese, gilles pargneaux, julie girling, gerben-jan gerbrandy, estefanía torres martínez, marco affronte and piernicola pedicini, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o—000069/2017 – b8—0330/2017) (2017/2620(rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, i have listened carefully to the debate today and i am encouraged by the engagement shown by the members of this house. i appreciate your commitment to maintaining the european union’s role as a pathbreaker in the field of international climate action. i would like to thank the honourable members for raising this important issue in parliament, thereby providing additional political momentum, and i am convinced that, with your support, the commission and the council under the leadership of the estonian presidency will be able to deliver substantial progress on the implementation of the paris agreement at the next climate conference in bonn in november. many of you referred to the need to raise our level of ambition. in this regard, i would say that the european union, along with the other parties, is required to communicate by 2020 its mid-century development strategy for the long-term lowering of greenhouse gas emissions. these long-term strategies will have to explore the feasibility of our 1.5°c scenario, which certainly goes beyond the level of domestic reduction we are heading towards with the current 2030 policy framework. for the long-term strategies, we are, however, dependent on further international developments in order to have the necessary science and analytical basis in place. we will have to obtain the science on the 2°c and 1.5°c pathways, including through a report by the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) in the second half of 2018. the un framework convention on climate change (unfcc) facilitative dialogue at the end of 2018 is also essential, as it will show us how countries are implementing paris and what more is needed. to facilitate the preparation of these strategies the commission will prepare an in-depth analysis of the economic and social transformations needed in order to feed the political debate in the european parliament and the council and with the stakeholders. i want to conclude by thanking you again for the opportunity of having this debate, and i hope we can continue our dialogue in the future.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i would like to thank you again for your cooperation. i am very much encouraged by the debate today on cop 23 and the next steps in the implementation of the paris agreement. as on previous occasions, the support from parliament in our outreach efforts to our international partners is very much appreciated. i look forward to continuing this exchange and working closely together in the run up to the bonn conference in order to achieve the best possible outcome.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, air travel is a vital transport link for eu citizens. in the european union, some 918 million passengers travelled by air in 2015 and this figure is increasing steadily from year to year. ryanair has grown to become the largest eu airline by scheduled passengers flown, and has carried more international passengers in 2015 than any airline in the world. it currently operates from 84 bases connecting 33 countries across europe and north africa. the abrupt cancellation, in the six weeks from september to october 2017, by ryanair of thousands of its flights in the eu has caused major disturbances for passengers. a large number of them were left stranded at airports and many had to cancel journeys or re—route their flights. there are complaints that in a number of cases the airline has given little or no notice of such cancellations. furthermore, there have been claims that the limited information dispensed by the airline with regard to reimbursement, re—routing or return, as well as the right to assistance and the right to compensation, may have been misleading to passengers. it is deeply regrettable that the passengers were left in such a position. airlines operating in the eu must respect european rules. air passengers’ rights are indeed protected under eu law. the flight compensation regulation sets a minimum level of quality standards for passenger protection, adding an important citizens’ dimension to the liberalisation of the aviation market. when a flight is cancelled, airlines are obliged to inform passengers of their rights. these rights include the right to reimbursement, re—routing or return, as well as the right to care and, in some circumstances, the right to compensation. any eu airline not adhering to these rules must be held accountable. the national enforcement bodies in each member state must act to verify that airlines are respecting eu rules and that passengers’ rights are protected. they must also strive to ensure that passengers are aware of their rights.
member of the commission. – mr president, the commission wishes to make the following statement on the recent case of ryanair cancellations. a few days ago, ryanair publicly announced that it would reduce its operations by cancelling thousands of scheduled flights, disrupting the travel plans of passengers across europe. this affected firstly flights scheduled until the end of october, totalling 2 100 flights, and then others due to operate during the winter season. a very large number of passengers will be affected and, just like all of you, the commission wants to make sure that those passengers are treated fairly. the eu is the only area in the world where citizens are protected by a full set of passengers’ rights, whether they travel by air, rail, ship, bus or coach. all passengers whose flights are cancelled have a comprehensive set of rights. it is essential that they receive correct and complete information about their rights in order to be able to enforce them. let me recall that these rights include the right to reimbursement, re-routing or return, as well as the right to care and, in some circumstances, the right to receive financial compensation. the commission has asked the national authorities to be vigilant on this issue, and to try to cooperate with each other in order to ensure that passengers can fully exercise their rights. as guardian of the treaties, the role of the commission is to oversee and monitor the implementation of eu law in each member state. for this reason, the commission immediately issued a statement underlying, in particular, that ryanair just – like all airlines operating in the eu – must fully comply with eu air passengers’ rights. we are in direct contact with all the national enforcement bodies to make sure that passengers’ rights are respected, and i specifically welcome the enforcement actions already taken by the uk civil aviation authorities and further actions by other civil aviation authorities, including in ireland and spain. i’m also confident that the irish civil aviation authority will continue to fulfil its oversight obligations and ensure that ryanair continues to comply with our aviation acquis. mr president and honourable members: let me also use this opportunity to remind you that in 2016, the commission issued guidelines on the existing rules to make it easier for passengers and national authorities alike. the commission also proposed to modernise the rules on air passengers’ rights in 2013 – a proposal which is currently blocked in council. i hope that we will soon be able to make progress on this for our passengers travelling across the eu. this incident clearly highlights the need for a modern and robust european regulatory framework. honourable members, president: the commission has contacted ryanair and we expect them to fully comply with its obligations. together with my colleague, commissioner jourová, i have written an official letter to ryanair to underline our concerns and highlight the obligations under eu law. firstly, we recalled that the passengers must receive correct and complete information about their rights in due time in order to be able to enforce them, including on re-routing and compensation. secondly, ryanair has to ensure that all communication channels are working properly and that passengers can communicate with staff. thirdly, another important issue is the complaint handling process. ryanair shall make information available on its website on its complaint handling process and on the relevant contact addresses where passengers can file claims. i am pleased to report that the ryanair has already responded by giving a number of assurances addressing the issues we have raised. indeed, for september and october 98% of affected customers have had their claims processed. for november to march 2018, the figure is at 75% and we expect this to go up rapidly in the coming weeks. this is a positive development. i will be pursuing my contacts with ryanair in the irish civil aviation authority during a visit to dublin in a few days, and the commission will of course remain in close contact with all national enforcement bodies to further follow-up on this issue. president and honourable members, the single aviation market has many benefits, but also many obligations. we therefore expect all airlines operating in the eu to fully respect european rules.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i too am glad that we have this point on the agenda in the plenary today and that we can debate it. i think it is worth saying that clearly something went wrong in ryanair. to put it bluntly, ryanair has messed something up. if i were the ceo, i would probably take measures because, of course, the first affected in this respect is the company, with its business and its reputation. there is no doubt something went wrong: it is obvious due to the implications that we are debating. however, the commissioner said one important thing and i think it is something we should focus on in terms of where we go from here and what the policymaking is to be. that is that, regarding the european union, our internal market, the rights of consumers and passengers’ rights, if we compare the situation with any other region in the world, or any other country, we have the most protective legislative framework. that goes without saying. i also see that the commission has acted and has given a response so i am sure that, as far as the competences of the commission are concerned, it will make sure that ryanair implements what it has promised and what it has to implement. and of course we also have the relevant national authorities. what i am more concerned about is that, although we have had this most protective legislative framework for 10 years, there are still entities and people that do not know what passengers’ rights are today, what can be reimbursed and what kind of obligations the airline has. that is something else that we need to draw conclusions from. i hope that, in the future, apart from the monitoring of implementation – on which, of course, i will focus – we will be able to bring forward the question of passengers’ rights, not only in aviation but also in other modes of transport, in a combined way. lastly, i apologise that, due to a previous commitment, i have to leave. please do not consider that as disrespect to you, mr president, madam commissioner, or to the issue, which i think is a serious one.
mr president, commissioner, when ryanair announced a few weeks ago that it would have to cancel up to 50 flights a day, hundreds of thousands of passengers were affected by this measure. their flight was cancelled overnight, and of course the company's employees were affected. the air carrier promised to compensate the passengers affected by the cancellation. however, this compensation does not include a clear obligation to re-route passengers to other carriers. in other words, the ability to fly on a given date with someone else. the commission notes that the airport operator has not provided any evidence that the airport operator has been operating in breach of the airport services agreement. at about the same time, its discussion is blocked in the council. the call to the council to finally agree on a new adaptation of the regulation is therefore more than appropriate.
mr president, allow me to comment on two points of the council which are closely linked. it's immigration and foreign policy. the migration pressure has now eased and the eu is in good shape. but we must expect further migration pressures in the future. it's a reality, and we've bought ourselves time to prepare better now. i therefore expect the european council summit to reflect on the effectiveness of the measures taken so far, so that we do not repeat the mistakes in the future. we cannot afford to have the eu caught off guard and unprepared again, which is why i support security as a priority. we need to focus on protecting the schengen borders, on speeding up returns and on assisting countries of origin and transit, which are key in relation to, for example, helping libya both financially and in terms of security capacities in cooperation with the un. it is there that we need to strengthen return policies and resettlement in the nearest countries of origin. as regards the proposal for a common asylum system, reform of the asylum system is necessary in the sense of better coordination. and the decision to grant asylum must remain entirely in the hands of the member states, because the member states are responsible for internal security. solidarity is necessary, of course, but it must be in agreement with the member states. i would like to remind you that the czech republic is in solidarity when it built a large camp for 30,000 refugees in jordan. (the rapporteur has agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. thank you for your question, we know that this is about the admission of these countries to the schengen area. i believe that on the issue of migration, these countries have fulfilled their role, that they have behaved very responsibly. i would also like to recall that the czech republic has sent security forces to these countries and i am in favour of these countries being recognised for their efforts to ensure security on their territory.
madam president, i voted in favour of this resolution, and i will be brief in my explanation. i think that the resolution is right, although it is a bit soft, but i can imagine a more hard resolution. personally, i would be in favour of the eu increasing diplomatic pressure on countries that violate these children's rights, because these marriages are clearly a violation of the fundamental rights of the child. it's child abuse, it's sexual abuse, and it's not just a crime. we should not only deal with this in the world, but in my opinion, of course, in our own backyard, because i have learned that in germany, several hundred of these marriages are even performed. and i think it's important to clean up your own house first, but also, because it's a fundamental right of children, to use the eu diplomatic service.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the economic and monetary union needs improvement in the areas of stability, convergence and governance. we do not only need to put in check public deficits, which in most member states are now under control. we also need to reduce the excessively high debt levels to free money to invest in the future. we also need to keep public spending under control so as not to overburden future generations, and we need to cater for future crises by not over-spending in economic good times so we have sufficient buffers in case the next crisis comes from the us. moreover, the economic policies in the union need to be more closely coordinated to generate positive spill-over effects and to enhance competitiveness in all member states. we need a coordinated effort in modernising and reforming economies to create jobs and growth and face global competition. the union has created so many new institutions, structures and procedures partly under union law, partly on an intergovernmental basis, but not all of these new creatures have an equivalent counterpart holding them accountable. if we want our citizens to have greater acceptance of the decisions that are taken at eu or indeed national level, we need to make sure that those can be effectively scrutinised, as many of these issues can be addressed if the fiscal compact were to be transposed into union law. it is not without flaws and some of its provisions may need amendments, but overall, my group is strongly in favour of transposing the treaty on stability, convergence and governance to the greatest extent possible into the union law in order to strengthen the principle of sound public finances, improve economic policy and coordination and legal uncertainty, and allow for proper democratic accountability.
mr president, we are talking about fiscal rules in the european union. let me start with a broad perspective and also history, but not so old. in pre-crisis time, the fiscal framework of european union – the so-called sgp – has failed – or we should rather say that politicians of that time let it fail. sgp was not respected, the purpose, neither substance. as the consequence, countries soon after suffered with substantial difficulties, and people have suffered. during the crisis, under the threat and during the very limited time, a new framework, including the fiscal compact that we are debating today, was created. more intelligent rules, as some would say, were the result of that. the results, the data and the figures are quite impressive. just looking at the data, i would observe that in the eurozone from 2009, every year there was a decline of deficit to gdp. since 2014, there is a decline of debt to gdp, and the deficit to gdp reached 1.5% last year. at the same time, if i look at the us data, i can see the deficit was twice as high. the debt is growing since 2008, with only one exception. people can ask: what about the growth? the european union is growing, unemployment has dropped down and employment is at an all-time high. people can say that it was too much of austerity; i would rather say it was a responsibility. spending money that people do not have is not a good policy; sometimes it is a mistake, and sometimes it is even a crime. i fully support the idea of incorporation of the fiscal compact into eu legislation, but i understand why, at a given time, it was not part of that. but as mr dombrovskis said, it was always intended. we can build on current results and not waste them.
for the alde group. mr president, mr president lehne, commissioner, this year's annual report of the european court of auditors for 2016 is not only an annual report, but also an anniversary report. it's serial number 40, which is really respectable and also worthy of a little celebration. i'm not sure it's quite the champagne to open. the lay public might not understand, but all of us who deal with european finance could celebrate the fact that, after 23 years, the annual report contains a qualified statement on the reliability of the operations carried out, instead of a negative one. and in the case of claims and administrative payments, the error rate is even far below the level of materiality. reducing the error rate of the expenditure side of the european union budget is one of a number of priorities that we would like to achieve in a lasting way in spending eu funds in accordance with the principles of sound financial management. the second, and in my view even more important, aspect is the focus on performance and the added value of all projects and investments. the new and difficult task facing the european court of auditors is to find an answer to the question whether low error rates automatically mean that eu funds are being spent economically, efficiently and effectively. the european commission and the member states have an identical task. the delay of the current multiannual financial framework results in a historical maximum of unused union funds. we can certainly agree that eu citizens' money must not be spent merely to exhaust national allocations. on the contrary, i did. let us make sure that the almost unbelievable, unspent €240 billion is used to finance quality projects that will have real added value and benefit for the european community. then maybe it's time to pop the champagne.
mr president, i would like to thank and highlight the fact that the actual error rate of the budgets in 2016 has decreased from 3,8% to 3,1%, despite the fact that the court of auditors finds a number of irregularities. but as the foreword said, i think there's a huge shift, and the shift is quite positive. the annual report on budget implementation also shows that the absorption of available eu funds remains the biggest problem. and here i think we agree with commissioner oettinger that this is a matter that needs to be looked at in the future. the drawing of european funds is often the subject of criticism and misinterpretation. there is a lot of talk about simplifying european money. i think some of the results are in. but some still need to be changed, especially in the member states. i still see a huge administrative burden in the member states. i keep seeing the changing conditions for withdrawals, the over-control of funds, where some funds are checked five or six times, and the unpredictable outcome of the whole procedure. the fact that member states do not spend money as they should creates a financial deficit and, in practice, a shortage of eu resources, which is reflected in the macroeconomic situation of the countries and the eu as a whole.
in writing. i am pleased that in 2016 the error rate was reduced to 3.1%. but i'm a little less pleased that the greatest rate of error is again found in programs and policies where shared governance is involved. in this respect, it is worth recalling the cohesion policy spending area, where the percentage of incorrect payments is as high as 4,8%. although not always intentional misconduct, i must express my disappointment that this percentage includes intentional damage and misinterpretation of the rules. i am very saddened by the fact that the czech republic is listed in the official report as an example of an ineligible beneficiary. just because these scams are happening in several countries doesn't mean they're acceptable. i therefore trust that the commission, the court of auditors, olaf and, more recently, the european public prosecutor's office will not relent and reduce these unpleasant statistics.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, commissioner, despite some positive developments noted by the previous speakers, i remain sceptical about the proposal to establish a european public prosecutor's office for a number of reasons. i believe that we already have sufficient mechanisms in the eu to fight financial fraud, such as eurojust, europol and olaf. another problem, in my view, will be the complex structure of the decision on jurisdiction to investigate, where it will first have to be assessed whether it falls within the competence of the national or european prosecutor. it's also not clear who will be able to file subpoenas and other appeals. the question of supervision also remains unresolved. last but not least, we are moving towards the gradual harmonisation of criminal law in the eu, which is a thorny path. the endless creation of new and new european offices will hardly contribute to speeding up criminal proceedings and reducing the number of procedural errors.
madam chairman, interpol is the largest police organization in the world. it brings together 192 countries. he cooperates in the pursuit and arrest of criminals. interpol has to work with non-democratic states. it is cooperation with dictatorial regimes that provides the possibility of using interpol to extradite political opponents of those regimes. countries that have abused interpol include russia, azerbaijan, kazakhstan, turkey and moldova. interpol has therefore incorporated into its constitution an important article 3: it is strictly forbidden to act in matters of a military, political, religious or racial character. yet, many individuals remain in the crosshairs of non-democratic countries. even if extradition is denied, these individuals may still be on the wanted list, at risk of detention and detention, unable to travel freely or find employment. interpol deals with requests from non-democratic governments. for example, akhmed zakayev, the prime minister of the chechen republic of ichkeria, was arrested in denmark on terrorism charges. he was granted asylum in the uk in 2003 after a russian request was found to be politically motivated by the british courts. in some cases, interpol rejected the requests. take the case of william browder, the author of the so-called magnitsky act. interpol also refused, under article 3, the arrest and extradition of three meps requested by azerbaijan for having visited nagorno-karabakh 'illegally' this year. we need interpol to fight crime. that is why i welcome the reform of interpol that has been initiated. interpol should adopt far more robust safeguards against abuse.
the author. mr president, commissioner, for two years now, the number of migrants trying to enter the united kingdom illegally has been increasing in the area around calais. they want to use waiting trucks to make their way, which they break into, and unsuspecting drivers face heavy fines from british controls. as early as september 2015, the first worrying cases of czech, polish, romanian, spanish, danish, dutch and other drivers whose luggage compartment was found to contain migrants at border controls were reported. while the french check in calais found no persons in the cargo area of the trucks, on the british side, during the same check, they discovered fugitives who had entered the cargo area without the drivers' knowledge, because they were trying to enter the uk illegally. in this case, the british authorities were adamant. they have fined drivers, including the transport company, for reckless driving, even though they passed the french checkpoint without any problems and followed all safety regulations. in fact, the situation this spring when a polish driver died because of roadblocks in his way also triggered this question. you wrote in your reply to the european commission that there is currently no eu legislation governing road safety, which remains the responsibility of the member states. yes, that's right. but on the other hand, i believe that the safety of drivers and the safety of eu citizens is one of the shared competences of the eu. i would therefore like to ask you what measures you are preparing in this regard and how to effectively prevent these cases of unjustified accusations of wrongdoing against drivers.
member of the commission. – mr president, a year ago the commission held an exchange of views on the impact of the migration crisis on the european commercial road transport sector and, in particular, on truck drivers in the calais area. the commission was aware then that the security threat to this vital sector was not only from irregular migrants, but also from organised crime seeking to steal vehicles and cargo for profit. accurate, up-to-date statistics are hard to find for criminal incidents affecting the road transport sector across all eu member states. the most comprehensive data are collected by the transported asset protection association, which has recorded a 24% increase in the number of cargo crimes in august compared with august 2016. they recorded almost 8000 criminal incidents affecting hauliers over the five years from the start of 2012 to the end of 2016, with a rise of about 213% between the full-year figures for 2012 to 2016. about 4.3% of the incidents involved violence or threat of violence against the driver, although the figures suggest a downward trend. just over half of the incidents occurred in unsecured parking locations, with the majority happening at night. the worst hot-spots are motorway service stations or road laybys. it is important to add the caveat that these figures as they are based only on those reported to the transported asset protection association, and some eu member states collect and report on many incidents compared with others. this data can therefore only be described as an indicative sample, and the actual number of incidents will be far higher. indeed, we must also sadly add another threat that has become all too apparent since the summer of last year, which is the hijacking of trucks by would-be terrorists to use them as a vehicle-ramming weapon against crowds of people. in these cases the threat to people’s lives extends beyond the truck driver, as we have seen in numerous incidents across europe this year. we therefore take the matter very seriously, and within the limits of our competences continue to work with member states and transport stakeholders to find viable and lasting ways to reduce the adverse impact of these threats on the critical road transport distribution chain. the commission believes in taking a holistic, rational and proportional approach in order to ensure high levels of security and safety in our road transport system, but with minimal disruption. we are taking action to help improve security for commercial road transport with a project underway, in partnership with the sector, to create a comprehensive security guidance toolkit so that everyone with a role to play in securing the road transport chain has the knowledge to better help protect it against a range of security threats and all kinds of unauthorised intrusions using best practice tips and guidance. all relevant stakeholders have been consulted in the development of this toolkit. the commission is now reviewing the delivery of the draft toolkit ahead of publication and dissemination over the coming months. this will include the translation of the toolkit into all community languages and the creation of a website where additional information will be provided. the use of digitally connected security systems will be a major enabler of the transformation of the current road transport system, including the development of new security solutions. in particular, the commission supports member state initiatives, such as the swedish government’s response to the stockholm attacks through the development of geo-fencing to automatically restrict commercial vehicles from entering centre city zones such as pedestrian areas. the creation of safer and more secure truck parking areas along the trans-european transport network, the so-called ten-t corridors, is a crucial element of the strategy to increase the security of drivers and cargo in road transport. the ten-t regulation specifically requires, in the ten-t guidelines, that the corridor network is equipped with safe and secure parking areas approximately every 100 km. to help make this a reality, the commission has made eu funding available through our connecting europe facility programme over recent years to finance such parking places, and the commission has provided almost eur 30 million since 2015 to support nine secure parking projects. the european parliament additionally provided a budget of eur 850 000 to the commission earlier this year to be used towards further developing safe and secure parking areas across europe. the commission is using this funding to launch a twelve month study to identify the appropriate location of safe and secure parking areas and the best design for a parking reservation system. most importantly, the study will deliver a concrete roadmap for the gradual completion of the network of safe and secure parking areas, including a description of the actions needed and their timing. the results of the study will constitute the basis for future work of the commission to eventually ensure that drivers can rest in secure conditions and sleep soundly. improving the availability of secure truck parking is only part of the answer. existing capacity needs to be optimised by information on the location and equipment of existing parking areas, as well as by optimising the parking spaces’ specific methodologies. on the basis of the intelligent transport systems directive, the commission has adopted a delegated regulation on the provision of information services for safe and secure parking places for trucks and commercial vehicles. the delegated regulation indicates the way to collect, update, share and disseminate the necessary information on the location of the secure parking, including the provision of reservation services.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, let us not be mistaken. we are not here to discuss today who attacked which driver and where and for what reasons. nor are we here to discuss whether this debate is legitimate and valid. that would be to side-line the two important issues: on one hand, the lack of secure parking places and, on the other, the inability of the member states to implement the legislation which is in place. in this connection, it is worth mentioning that the driver is responsible for the truck and also for what the truck carries. as the commissioner has already made clear, we have ten-t guidelines, which say clearly that the member states should be providing safe and secure parking facilities plus or minus every 100 kilometres. i would add that there is also an eu requirement for parking operators to provide information about the availability of these parking spaces, but member states’ compliance with this requirement is, if i may say so, basically a joke. we can indeed ask how the commission will safeguard security on european roads but we should not forget that member states may be more to the forefront on this matter. they have to share information and make proper use of it, and they have to deliver for the ten-t network. i have a final remark to make to the commission. we are in the situation that we are to be implementing legislation which we are soon to agree on, but we have a lack of parking places. is it realistic to expect that we will be in a position to implement this legislation in the foreseeable future, in the next few years, if the member states do not comply today with the legislation already in place? this is something we should bear in mind when we are negotiating and approving the new mobility legislation.
mr. chairman, this case is truly disgusting like hundreds of others that have happened. it was only when i read this resolution that i realised that i was not reading a story from centuries ago but that this was the current situation in some african countries. i think we have to think about how we can fight superstition, because education -- that's one of the ways that's offered -- is going to be a very long time. of course, there is a need to educate people in this area, but in my opinion, these people need protection as soon as possible. we need to impose draconian penalties, we need to clearly increase protection by the governments of these african countries, because that is probably the only way to combat this way of thinking today, these superstitions, which may have ancient origins, but are really not fit for the 21st century.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, of course no violation of human rights can be tolerated. it is certainly good that we are trying to deal with each individual case, but i am afraid that for the sake of the individual we are forgetting the violation of the rights and suffering of large groups of people. just look at ukraine, where for three years now there has been a protracted conflict that has affected millions of people. it includes killing, torturing and abusing people, as well as eliminating uncomfortable journalists. according to the office of the un high commissioner's report of this summer, also cited by my colleagues, there is: systematic violation of the right to a fair trial in conflict-related cases. we regularly discuss the situation in crimea here at the plenary, it's evergreen. but in my opinion, we need to stop this double standard.
mr. chairman, commissioner, we are here today to discuss the consequences of russia's occupation of parts of ukraine. russia is occupying crimea and sevastopol against all rules of international law. we will never recognize the annexation of these territories to russia and these territories remain for us the territory of ukraine. being on the side of the law is a clear crime for the kremlin regime. the victims of human choice have specific names contained in our resolution, such as oleg sentsov, ilmi umerov or roman sushenko and many others. not only the victims, but the russian will has its own specific names. the perpetrators of these crimes must be identified and punished. at this point, the eu can add them to its sanctions lists.
mr. chairman, in the title of our resolution, the names of three crimean tatars are mentioned: chigoz, umerov, semen. from reports, including the office of the un high commissioner, we know that those who are being persecuted, arrested, tortured, kidnapped or forced into exile for criticizing the russian occupation of crimea are much more and are increasing. the european parliament cannot remain silent on this situation any longer. during the occupation, media freedom was severely curtailed, it practically ceased to exist, and today only pro-russian news is available. we have reports that people in crimea are being forced to cooperate with russian security forces under threat. we remember this very well from the time of the totality in our country until 1989. but there are still people in crimea who are not giving up and defending human rights. they must also be supported by our resolution and the demand that an international observer mission be established in crimea within the framework of the un to report on the situation.
mr. chairman, i welcome the fact that this resolution is a statement of support for the crimean tatar leaders. the names achtem chigoz and ilmi umerov are not unknown to us. so is the journalist mykola semena. but this resolution goes far beyond simply rejecting unjust sentences. this resolution is a reminder. it reminds us of our obligation to repay the debt to the crimean tatars who in 1968 stood up against the occupation of my country czechoslovakia by the soviet army. it reminds us how tragically history can repeat itself it was the crimean tatars who were subjected to genocide once before. i mean their forced deportation from crimea in 1944. but there is another general purpose to this resolution. it proves that the european parliament is not wavering and still calls things by their right names: the occupation of crimea is a violation of international law.
mr president, i of course entirely agree with the text of the resolution, because there is no doubt that in this case the judgments are illegitimate, they are unjust, they are a violation of human rights. the occupation of crimea is a violation of international law in general, that's absolutely clear, and russia cannot, in my opinion, use its justice system to legitimize these actions. russia has become part of the enforceable circle of international law and those guaranteed by the council of europe system. and i think either the rights are valid, or it's a menu where only a certain part is valid. we should try to help the council of europe to exercise some of its enforcement jurisdiction against russia by seizing shares of russian companies. we must express our support for the council of europe, because it is the one that has built this system. we can only continue to insist on the sanctions list. this is our expression of solidarity for our bad conscience as the budapest memorandum of 1994 was unilaterally violated.
author. mr president, the european union has been active in the maldives process for quite some time, but we think it is not enough. that's why we agreed across the political spectrum on this resolution, which is different in many ways because it takes into account things that we didn't accept and reflect in our previous resolutions. yes, it is often said that everyone can criticize, but criticism must be constructive and help to find a solution. but the situation in the maldives is unfortunately hopeless despite our constructive offer of solutions. there must be a step back from prosecuting opposition leaders, reinstating the death penalty. international obligations must be respected, and so must the issue of religious respect. if the maldives do not continue to comply with this, sanctions need to be considered, including a ban on eu tourists from traveling to this beautiful island.
mr president, the maldives is a small country and we have already referred to it several times in this plenary. i think that says a lot. the sunny skies, the europeans spending their holidays there, and then finding out, or not finding out at all, that criminals are being held there for no reason, that there is torture, intimidation, that there are even changes to be made to reintroduce executions in the legal order. i think that europeans should know these things, and that is why i agree with my colleagues who said that we should first of all inform the european public, that is our very strong card in the diplomatic effort that the european commission and the eu services should make in this matter. i believe we can force this state to negotiate changes that are clearly against our beliefs, which is certainly the execution of juveniles.
mr president, allow me to explain why i supported the european parliament's resolution on the council regulation establishing enhanced cooperation in the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office. the fight against damage to the eu budget and financial interests is of paramount importance precisely because it is european taxpayers themselves who are being harmed. the proposal to establish the office has seen significant positive changes, such as the decentralisation of the system, the omission of the article on the single judicial area, and others. i am aware that enhanced cooperation is not common in the case of the establishment of a new institution, and therefore questions arise. on the other hand, there is no doubt that this will be a step forward in the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office, which could help to strengthen the fight against the misuse of european funds, which i consider to be crucial.
mr. chairman, i voted against this motion. it is probably well known that both my political group and my own party have long opposed the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office. there are both political and legal reasons for this. for these political reasons, i would point out first of all that the creation of this function is in fact introducing another element of federalisation into the system of european institutions, and that is something we do not support. there are of course very relevant legal objections, in particular that it will be the national authorities who will be responsible for the verdict at the end of the day. in any event, we believe that the national judicial and investigative bodies are sufficiently well equipped and have sufficient credibility to avoid any need for additional controls or the creation of such a body. so we say no to the european prosecutor's office.
for the ppe group. madam president, i thank the commissioner for the information and the measures with which i can express my agreement. i would like to recall that the social economy is a business area which has a very different form depending on the legal systems of the member states and, in general, a social enterprise can be characterised by reinvesting all the profits generated in its main activity. social enterprises are thus based on the need to help specific people, communities and to integrate people into society. social enterprises are therefore important for society and it is no coincidence that we are also talking about them at european level. the council conclusions of december 2015, which are very positive by the way, state that the social economy contributes to a number of key eu objectives and is also a sector that has survived the economic crisis much better than others and is increasingly recognised at european level. i would like to remind you that we have about 2 million social enterprises registered at european level and they employ 14.5 million people. i think that's a very strong sector. i think we all know some of the social enterprises. they integrate disadvantaged people in short, those who are in some way at risk and create very important conditions for their inclusion. in this situation, i would also like to highlight the role of the churches, which create the conditions for the charitable work of millions of people across europe. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the voluntary initiative of businesses should be encouraged and that no action plan is necessary at this stage.
commissioner, i must commend the european commission, because it is a good proposal indeed. my fellow intelligence officers have done a great job, i think, and we're left with the cadmium issue. there was a lot of talk about industry, about agriculture, but apart from eickhout, very little was said about the health effects. cadmium is a carcinogen, a mutagen, a reprotoxin, an organotoxin, and it is accumulative. the health effects can occur up to ten years after the intoxication. that's the first thing to realize. food is the main source of cadmium for the european population and it is quite clear from our agencies that the intake of certain groups of food is twice the tolerable level. so clearly something needs to be done about it. and for those of you who are too complex and arguing here, whatever gets dumped on that field, it's just there and we eat it, because the plants, the crops, the food that's produced, the cadmium just can't be removed. so the exposure needs to be reduced at the source, where the fertilizer is made. now let's look at what the commission is proposing a limit of sixty milligrams right away. we've been talking about how complicated it is to do. there's nothing to do! the average today is 34 milligrams, for 40 milligrams you might need to start mixing the clean source with the dirty one, for 20 milligrams you need to introduce some technology industrially. in 12 years? in 12 years, my friends, we'll be on mars, so hopefully we'll be able to clean some of the contaminants from the fertilizer. many member states already have these limits, so the debate about agriculture not being competitive with these limits is nonsense. it's proven by the fact that the limits are already there. please support the commission's proposal, it is reasonable, it is rational, it is achievable and let's not discuss anything else
mr president, i will not bother you with the figures that have already been mentioned. the debate on this draft regulation shows once again whose commercial interests are more important and whose concern is first and foremost with human health and environmental protection. the most controversial issue, of course, is the cadmium limits. this highly dangerous substance poses a serious risk to human health. besides air, it is also absorbed by the human body through food. it's taken from phosphate fertilizers and put into the soil and taken up by plants. there is no way to remove it from them, so we happily consume it in our food. it is a highly toxic carcinogen that can contribute to cancer and osteoporosis. this information is public knowledge, and yet the right wing is about to announce an increase in the limit of cadmium in fertilisers. this is completely unacceptable. we cannot put the profits of importing low-quality raw materials above human health. i would also point out that the draft regulation omits some other important aspects, such as the addition of a limit for total chromium. current practice is to add industrial waste such as waste from the steel or leather industries to the fertiliser. although they are not authorised as fertilising materials, it is almost impossible for the control authorities to detect the use of these materials in fertilisers. a separate chapter is devoted to biostimulants. the vast majority of these are in the grey area, released as fertilisers or auxiliary substances. we therefore need to change the definition of plant protection products. most importantly, however, the current situation with the lack of limits for the risk elements in fertilisers in the european union is completely unsatisfactory.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, we are now facing an amendment to the fertilising products directive which emphasises the need for stricter protection of soil resources and the environment. it introduces and reduces the permitted limits for heavy metals such as cadmium, arsenic and chromium, and for pathogens. it also introduces biostimulants and allows the production of ce fertilisers from treated agricultural waste such as manure or compost, thereby reducing the dependence on phosphates imported into the eu from third countries. the adaptation of the nitrates directive is also important for the use of fertilisers. better use of waste and recycling is not only a logical step for good management, but also an opportunity for innovation and new technological practices. however, a balance between environmental protection, phosphorite dependency and fertiliser efficiency must also be found. i appreciate the reduction of administrative burdens and voluntary harmonisation manufacturers need only comply with national rules. however, i do not agree with the inclusion of mulch films in the scope of the directive.
for the ppe group. mr. chairman, the continuing development and availability of new psychoactive substances poses a significant threat to the field of drug control. it is therefore appropriate for the internal market of the european union to respond to this innovation in drug development. i see the problem particularly in synthetic cannabis, where producers change the composition of a substance slightly after it is banned, and the chemical formulae are constantly changing. this allows the psychoactive substance to be made available again on the market in one of the member states, in so-called smart shops. it is a health hazard that can be addictive, especially to adolescents. an effective and functioning exchange of information on these substances between member states based on an early warning and risk assessment system is therefore highly desirable. i appreciate the provision of information between the different authorities without undue delay, for example between the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction and europol. i also welcome the extension to assess not only the health but also the safety risks associated with new psychoactive substances. also, given that the degree of similarity of the chemical structures of new psychoactive substances is often difficult to determine, the centre should have the power to determine whether certain substances can be considered sufficiently similar. both the regulation and the directive aim to support member states in their fight against drug trafficking. while respecting subsidiarity, the experience of experts and the exchange of information at european level should be used to combat more effectively the drug business that threatens the citizens of the european union. i therefore thank the european commission and the two rapporteurs for their hard work and i trust that it will be supported.
mr president, i agree that there should be a legislative framework, that is, legal protection for whistleblowers, especially at national level. whistleblowers, who choose to disclose confidential information about illegal activities, help fight fraud, corruption and tax evasion. but i would recommend that we be very careful when we are trying to enforce regulation at european level. for example, in the area of anonymity, we should talk more about confidentiality, where the identity is known, but only to the supervisory authorities. i also object to the creation of whistleblower funds that would be funded by what they get out of their activities. i consider this connection to be very dangerous. in short, the right to whistleblower protection is important and the european framework needs to respect the national framework and a very sensitive approach.
mr president, i cannot resist the urge to respond to the rapporteur's call. i just want to point out that the european union cannot replace the decision-making of the parliaments and governments of the member states. yet, as she herself admitted, a universal minimum income is already a reality in many countries, even if it is called something else, such as the living wage, as we have in the czech republic. but the question is whether there should be a minimum income defined at european level. i personally disagree with that, just as i disagree with the definition of a minimum wage at the level of the european union. the adopted version of the report is acceptable, however, because it merely encourages all states to consider some form of minimum income. i am personally against the report mentioning the possibility of a european union minimum income directive and i am against the call for a european union fund. it would be a utopia and a false promise to the voters, which the european parliament should reject.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to express my thanks to ms agea for this comprehensive report, which looks into minimum income policies to address poverty. there are now clear signs that europe is recovering from the crisis. 2017 is the first year since 2008 when all european economies are expected to grow. the recovery is also reflected in the employment and social situation in europe. employment has reached the highest number ever recorded: 232 million in 2016. unemployment rates are back to the pre-crisis level: 7.7% in august 2017. the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion decreased in more than half of the member states in 2015 and is back to its pre-crisis level of 23.7%. however, we cannot be complacent, as thousands of our citizens – including people with jobs – are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. therefore, i welcome your report as it highlights this challenge. poverty and inequality are not only detrimental to social cohesion, but also to sustainable economic growth. addressing these challenges is at the core of the european semester and the european pillar of social rights. the pillar includes, as key principles, the provision of adequate minimum income schemes, essential services and employment activation. in line with the active inclusion approach, all member states currently have some form of minimum income scheme. however, their design and implementation vary greatly. moreover, as the report also points out, income support should be accompanied by access to services and activation, such as lifelong learning, for workers, the unemployed and vulnerable social groups. the european semester has proved to be an effective framework to monitor and provide guidance to member states in this area. the pillar will further strengthen these efforts by introducing a new social scoreboard. moreover, we are currently working with the member states on a benchmarking framework for minimum incomes. the commission is also promoting mutual learning and the exchange of good practices among member states, for instance within the social protection committee, or by supporting the european minimum income network, which aims at the progressive realisation of adequate and accessible minimum income schemes in member states.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 24 october 2017. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on control of spending and monitoring of eu youth guarantee schemes’ cost-effectiveness (2016/2242(ini)) (a8—0296/2017).
mr president, youth unemployment is a very serious issue, and it is our duty to address it. according to the latest eurostat statistics, unemployment has fallen significantly. in august 2017, the under-25s in the european union were 16.7%, and that's a real decline. i believe that the drawdown of the european social fund, which has helped many young unemployed people to find work, has also contributed to this. but it is alarming that in greece, spain, italy, for example, the figure is still 40%, 30%. youth unemployment has huge negative effects on the economy, but also on young people themselves. of course, there's the risk of their frustration, of radicalization, and any young person who can't find a job, we have to be concerned. i therefore support the continuation and improvement of these youth safeguards.
member of the commission. – mr president, providing young people with better opportunities has been a top priority for the commission. i therefore welcome mr vaughan’s report, which comes at the right time. four years into the launch of the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative (yei), our efforts are now paying off. the youth guarantee has been an important policy driver to improve the transition of young people from education to work. setting it up was not easy. it required commitment and political support from member states and building new partnerships, as well as significant reforms of labour market, education and training policies. but these efforts are now bearing fruit. since its launch, around 18 million young people have registered and 11 million have received an offer. the youth unemployment rate decreased from a peak of 24% in january 2013 to 16.7% in august 2017. there are now two million fewer young unemployed in the european union, and one million fewer young people who are not in employment, education or training – the so—called neets. the improving macroeconomic context certainly played a role, but young people have managed better on the labour market thanks to the youth guarantee. public employment services have expanded their services and developed new approaches towards the hard—to—reach. apprenticeship and traineeship reforms have taken place in many countries. the youth employment initiative has directly helped at least 1.6 million young people to receive a job, training or further education. as your report rightly points out, there are still challenges. we take due note of the european court of auditors’ special report on the impact of these two projects on youth employment. the youth guarantee has done a lot to shift the focus to early intervention and not registered needs, and to ensure a new focus on outreach. but addressing young people in more vulnerable situations, who face multiple barriers, remains a challenge. we are committed to helping member states by providing financial support and policy advice to ensure that all young people can have access to these opportunities. through the employment and social innovation (easi) programme we are, for example, supporting outreach and awareness—raising projects in four member states and providing mutual learning opportunities. your report stresses the importance of cooperation between all partners as a crucial part of achieving this goal. indeed, public employment services, education providers, social partners and youth organisations need to be involved so that we can reach out effectively to all young people and ensure that measures are sustainable and of high quality. adequate investment is of course a prerequisite for achieving this. many of the measures of the youth guarantee would not have occurred without the european union’s financial support, namely the youth employment initiative and the european social fund. in some member states, the youth employment initiative is funding the vast majority of youth guarantee measures and has been instrumental in setting up schemes. despite a slow start, implementation of the youth employment initiative sped up between 2015 and 2016: the number of young people supported by the youth employment initiative tripled. the recently agreed increase of the youth employment initiative’s budget by eur 2.14 billion will help to continue this effort, but i fully agree with you that member states also need to invest in youth employment in order to effectively implement youth guarantee schemes and really reach all young people. as regards monitoring requirements on the progress of the yei, we have been providing guidance and requesting feedback from the member states on data collection and monitoring. the provision of guidance will continue on a regular and ad—hoc basis. collecting relevant information and feedback on the results on the ground is essential in order for us to be able to report on the achievement of the youth employment initiative. to facilitate this dissemination of the youth guarantee’s results, on 26 october we are organising a youth guarantee learning forum. this will bring together youth guarantee policy coordinators from member states and yei managing authorities to disseminate good practices, take stock of the lessons learned so far and come up with proposals for the future.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 24 october 2017. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance (rule 163). i would like to underline the word ‘one’, so please respect the time limit and i will try to be strict.
mr palmer, welcome to this house. it is good to have you with us.
colleagues, the list has been completed. that concludes the item.
the question posed by the blue card. mr president, i wanted to ask you: in this debate, do you not think that the european union should respect the internal constitutional situation in spain? i don't think it's appropriate to bring that dimension into this debate. i'd like to hear your answer to that question.
madam president, i came here mostly to listen, not just to speak for 90 seconds, and these were two hours very well spent. let me just remind you of a few words that were said in the debate. let me start with three words said by our three presidents. these were: values, unity and solidarity. i guess that most of us believe that this is the essence, the core of our common europe, and we must find a way to convince more national politicians and, more generally, as many people as possible to see things the same way. how can we do this? we know it is not easy, but let me borrow two words that were said by the heads of two of our parliamentary groups, the words are visibility and results. we must find a way to reach the results that will be visible and that will allow people to understand the benefits of the european union. lastly, let me also mention two words whose results are more difficult to grasp. these are pragmatism and unanimity, also used by the chairs of our groups. concerning pragmatism, let me say that sometimes it is a good thing, but i don’t think that it is good for the sake of so-called pragmatism to obey the rules, the principles and common sense. and this is, i guess, quite important. unanimity is also a tricky word, because we must find the right balance between unanimity and unity in order to reach the visible, optimum results that will ensure our union has support in the minds of its people.
mr president, a few weeks ago i welcomed the words of the president of the commission in the plenary session that there must be no second-class consumers in the european union. the social democrats expect the european commission to put its words into action in the notified package of new consumer policies. i'm going to start fighting the double standards. we already know, thanks to the effort to describe this practice, that there is a double standard. the supervisory authorities now need clear and effective tools to deal with it. we want better public measures to promote consumer rights. illegal practices of all kinds require a rapid response and i believe that the regulation on cooperation between supervisory authorities plays an important role here. another problem is the limited remedies available. it is therefore time to present a proposal for a system of collective legal protection for consumers. we also need to finally address the imbalance between businesses in the food chain. unfair trading practices between individual players are a longstanding and serious problem that requires legislative action at european level, and i am glad that you have raised this issue.
mr vice-president of the commission, in july we voted on the european parliament's resolution on the commission's work programme. unfortunately, this resolution was not adopted. in your speech you mentioned important objectives such as the digitalisation of the internal market or a comprehensive approach to migration. right from the start, you spoke of a more democratic europe. that goal is also the alpha and omega of all endeavors for me. some third countries and non-state actors are increasingly making efforts to challenge the legitimacy of democratic institutions within the european union through the means of hybrid warfare, including disinformation. in our resolution, we called on the commission to significantly strengthen its resilience to hybrid threats and improve its ability to respond appropriately to fake news and disinformation. the european parliament has repeatedly made this demand in many reports and in various forums. but the response has not yet been forthcoming. i believe that will happen in the near future.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – mr president, it is clear that there are not enough funds available to deal with the migration crisis as well as the security challenges we currently face in the eu. indeed, polls have suggested that these areas are the ones europeans expect the eu to do much more on. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the 2018 budget, i advocated that further money be allocated to deal with these crucial areas. in addition, we pushed for more funds for the agencies which are at the forefront of the union’s response. we also need to ensure that the agencies in the area of justice and home affairs are adequately staffed. therefore, we advocated that these agencies be exempt from the staff reduction targets of 5% under the multiannual budget. in tomorrow’s vote i call on our colleagues to give the rapporteurs a strong mandate for their discussions with national governments in order to ensure that the union and its agencies can respond in the most effective way possible to the challenges we face.
member state ministers like to claim successes that are only achieved through european cooperation or through the work and pressure we in the european parliament put in place. it is a rather unpleasant surprise that in a case such as the draft budget, they propose cuts in programmes which have the highest success rate and added value. these are programmes that have been promised to europeans and which they are logically expecting. i am pleased that the committee on budgets has passed a proposal which takes account of the commitments we have made and the objectives we have to achieve. the increase in funding for the horizon 2020 scientific and research programme is one example. it is, among other things, the primary source of funding for european cancer research. i would like to add for my part that i do not agree that the commission has tabled a draft budget which does not take account of the findings of the court of auditors' report. although the union has pledged to spend 20% of its finances on climate change action by 2020, we are consistently below that limit. a similar scenario is seen for biodiversity protection, where the commission estimates an increase of only 0.1%. i am convinced that the european budget should reflect proportionately the challenges, threats and risks that europeans are currently facing, and i therefore call on the council to take this into account during the trilogue.
mr president, we are getting used to the fact that the rapporteur who is given the task of processing the council's accounts in the committee on budgetary control then informs us that it will not be possible to close the accounts again because of the council's lack of cooperation. and it surprises me every year. how is it possible that an institution whose existence is so closely linked to ours is not willing to respect the fundamental competences of the european parliament? how would we react if any other institution behaved like this? i welcome and strongly support the decision of the conference of presidents last week to instruct the committee on budgetary control to negotiate an agreement with the council on the form of cooperation in preparing the next financial statement. if we are talking about an agreement, it must not be synonymous with a concession by the european parliament in terms of the scope and depth of the information provided. the council is obliged to be transparent in the management of public resources, as are all the other european institutions. the european parliament must therefore insist on its demands. it is both our privilege and our duty and our responsibility to the public. i would also welcome the inclusion of the council in the transparent register.
mr president, the protection of the health of people and workers is a priority for all of us and, given the free movement of workers across the european union, it is of course appropriate that there should be a uniform regulation on working environment requirements. statistics show that cancer is the second most common cause of death in europe. it is clear that long-term exposure to certain substances in the workplace is definitely one of the risk factors. according to the european agency for safety and health at work, up to 100,000 deaths from occupational cancer occur in the european union each year. the health problems and the losses are irreplaceable in terms of human lives, of course, but they can also be quantified economically, reportedly as a loss of four to six percent of gross domestic product. the new legislation is therefore intended to ensure better protection of workers' health by reducing their exposure to harmful chemicals at the workplace. the negotiated form is a balanced compromise also for the employers who will eventually have to implement these measures. the directive proposes limits which are quite strict and leaves room for further tightening, in particular for substances such as crystalline silica, hexavalent chromium and wood dust. it is correct that both types of wood dust have also been included among these harmful substances and the low limits are justified in view of the proven harmfulness. i support this compromise.
the question posed by the blue card. madam president, i agree that there are many things that need to be improved, but i do not agree that we should be ashamed. mr. squirrel here pointed out a while ago that there are a number of things that have been done. i want to ask you, are you really just ashamed or do you have a good example? don't tell me that nothing has been done in your country against discrimination against roma citizens.
colleagues, the roma are our fellow citizens and i personally have many friends among them. they have their own traditions, their own language, their own mentality. but above all, they have the same rights and obligations as all eu citizens. i am aware that in some areas their integration is very slow. there are obstacles, and they're usually on both sides. of course, the state has a responsibility to enforce rights, and the european parliament rightly calls on the member states to improve the situation of roma citizens, especially in countries where integration is not taking place. the report sounds very critical, as if all eu countries were simply sitting by and watching their citizens being discriminated against. it's like everything is negative, but it's not! i must strongly withdraw from my position as member of parliament for the czech republic. i personally worked for three years on the project equality and quality in education, and i monitored the education of disadvantaged children, including roma. i can confirm that some young roma children are discriminated against, but mainly by their own parents, who do not send them to kindergarten, do not send them to primary school. i'm not saying all parents, because i know a lot of families where things are changing. but if more than 50% of roma children do not prepare for primary school, they will fail and leave early. to prevent this, we introduced compulsory pre-school education from the age of 5 this school year, and we have introduced support measures to help overcome these barriers to the integration of disadvantaged children. we changed the legislation, we increased the budget to give these kids a better start in life than their parents had. this year, the czech government decided to modify the pilgrimage site of the roma holocaust, to buy pork in letech. i am proud that it is the kdu-csl minister who will correct this historical wrong. ladies and gentlemen, let us have the courage to criticize, but also to recognize examples of good practice.
in writing. the report of soraya postová contains many interesting statements taken from various articles, which, regardless of the reasons examined, all reflect the subjective opinions of the authors. the arbitrary definition of who is considered a roma is a classic example. as a rule, this politically incorrect term is used to refer to all socially excluded persons in a given country. in the czech republic, just over 5 000 citizens registered as roma in 2010, while approximately 500 roma children were enrolled in special education. point 20 of the report calls on member states to address, in the context of migration, the bias towards roma refugees and asylum seekers from the western balkan countries, among whom there are many roma, which may be related to specific factors affecting the local roma community. point 21 expresses deep concern about the large number of stateless roma in europe. the author completely ignores the existence of tens of thousands of non-citizens in latvia and estonia. in paragraph 29, member states are invited to establish hate crime units within police forces. i believe that such an approach would constitute inequality before the law and therefore is contrary to the eu's fundamental standards. there are 90 recognised national minorities in the eu, and the author has chosen one of them, apparently with the intention of denigrating certain eu states.
the question posed by the blue card. mr. speaker, can you please specify three ways in which this system will make us lose our sovereignty? you also criticize the way the intelligence community is not cooperating. your speaker here talked about how we should have control over the data of the member states themselves. is it not the protectionism of the uk that is hindering us from sharing this information?
madam president, commissioner, almost 25% of women in the european union over the age of 15 have experienced physical or sexual violence by their partner. i would like to express my deep solidarity with them. almost half of women in the european union have been victims of verbal, physical or online harassment at some point in their lives. it shocks me that more than a quarter of europeans think that sexual intercourse without the consent of a partner can be justified. more than one in five europeans think that women often make up or exaggerate their claims about abuse or rape. victims of violence often do not report the crime. people around them may be reluctant to intervene even though they know the situation. sexual forms of cyberbullying are also a problem. whether it's texting or sex e-mails. a few days ago, commissioner jourová herself announced the "mee too". we need to change the perception that is widespread in society that such behavior is normal, or that it is the victim's fault that they are harassed. it is also a problem of the european institutions, as has been said. the european union should accede to the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence (istanbul convention). i think it's our real duty to intervene... (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, the draft budget for 2018 is, in my view, balanced and takes account of all the political priorities that the european union wishes to pursue. this is to strengthen the key programmes for employment growth and for the growth of the european union. however, he also maintains that the security of the european union and the fight against illegal migration remain his top priorities. it is also necessary to strengthen the programmes of the immediate neighbourhood with the european union, to strengthen the european agencies, especially those active in the field of justice and home affairs, such as europol, eurojust, easo and cepol. this is of course linked to the appropriate increase in the internal security fund (isf) and the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif).
mr president, i also supported today the mandate for the 2018 budget trilogue, in particular because it includes an increase in key allocations to support economic growth, job creation, enhancing security and protection of the external borders and overall surveillance of migration. i consider that, personally, very important. there is an increase in erasmus+, horizon 2020, easi, i.e. programmes related to education, employment and social innovation. a europe for citizens and a creative europe are also very important in terms of engaging citizens and promoting culture. we want to encourage exchanges of students, scientists, artists, but also higher employment. the increase in security and migration control resources concerns europol and eurojust, as well as internal security, which i also consider very important. that's why i supported the budget.
mr. chairman, i have supported this draft budget for the mandate for the trialogue. i mean, this is, in my opinion, the maximum possible. this is a compromise that partly responds to the new challenges facing europe, while at the same time being based on the rules of the multiannual financial framework. when the mff is amended, we may be able to better reflect the new challenges facing europe in a concrete draft budget. it is the area of law and security, in particular the protection of external borders and security from terrorism in general, strengthening activities that contribute to the security of european citizens. the democratization of europe: the erasmus programme, the european solidarity corps, have already been mentioned here. these are good initiatives, of course, but it would be better if more money were available for them. sadly, that is not the case today. i would like to say that i am grateful that the cohesion policy has not been weakened in this budget.
mr president, i think that we are living in the 21st century and that is why we must not rely on stamps in our passports, but must create a new electronic system to control the entry and exit of third country nationals into the european union. i believe that this system, as it has been designed and as it has been approved, will help to make europe a relatively stable and strong port. it will help to make people feel safe here and to avoid cases of some people illegally entering the european union on 14 different documents and staying longer than they are entitled to under the current european laws. that is why i supported this report and i think it is a good step to ensure the safety of the citizens of the european union.
mr. chairman, i'd like to explain why i supported the new regulation establishing an entry and exit system. this regulation introduces a number of measures, such as the extension of the retention period for stored data to five years. of course, he uses the newest digital technology. i believe that this new system will really improve the management of the external borders and ensure a higher level of internal security and thus reduce illegal migration. they shall also ensure that accurate information is provided on persons overstaying their authorised stay. on the contrary, it will make it easier for legal travellers to enter the european union. that should cut down on the time it takes to process them, of course. i believe that the launch of this entry and exit system could be a significant step towards restoring the confidence of the citizens of the european union in their security.
mr president, i believe that security is indeed one of the key areas of the european union that we must pay attention to. the management of the external borders and the system relating thereto are an essential part of it. within the schengen area, it is desirable to establish a single system with electronic recording of the precise time and place of entry and exit of third-country nationals into the european area, the granting of short-term residence permits and the monitoring of compliance with the duration of their authorised stay. the known excesses of entry on forged passports and overstaying should be tackled by this proposal. i'm not saying it's going away completely, but it's definitely a step in the right direction. i also believe that it should be made clear which authorities in each member state will have effective access to the system. data processing should be proportionate to its purpose so as not to exceed competences.
mr president, i supported this regulation, which relates to the modernisation and also to the security of border protection and controls in the schengen area. this regulation on the schengen borders code specifies the specific requirements in the entry and exit system, specifies the requirements for the categories to be entered in the system, for its technical structure, for the rules concerning its operation, use, interoperability with other information systems in the member states. i also appreciate that standards are being introduced for automated border control systems, increasing the requirements for the sufficient quality of the data collected to be used for automated comparison of biometric elements, such as faces, fingerprints. in any event, it is a question of improving the quality of control and protection of the schengen area.
mr president, i agree with the motion, although i have voted differently on some minor points, which are perhaps not entirely minor and which should perhaps be mentioned here. i do not think that the retention periods for the residence permit or even the non-residence permit are sufficient. in my view, they should be at least doubled, on the grounds that the protection of personal data cannot override the interest in the retention of those records. in my view, it is important that these deadlines be extended because it is a matter of public safety. furthermore, the adoption and subsequent compliance with the appropriate technical standards and the provision of a sufficient number of staff to assist in the automated border control are essential for the proper functioning of the system. it is also appropriate to allocate sufficient budgetary money for this purpose, otherwise it will not be possible to implement these measures.
mr president, if we really want to include the roma and if we really want to do something about the roma issue, we have to change the approach to the roma issue. we need to put more responsibility on the roma themselves, not on us trying to forcibly integrate them into mainstream society. i've worked with roma for years. i am still trying to continue this work as an mep. i see that many roma have also understood that external motivation stinks. so we really need to motivate these people to want to study, to want to be educated, to want to be part of our society. the roma are smart people, many of them are very well educated, but without giving an impetus and recognising their differences, this integration will not be possible.
mr president, proposals to solve the migration crisis are multiplying like mushrooms. but there is one thing all these discussions have forgotten. it's the need for personal empathy in politicians. i'm afraid that the lack of personal feeling and autopsy is also holding back the solution of problems such as migration. these are journalists who arrive at the scene of an emerging conflict within hours or days, while politicians are determined to investigate the problem on the ground, often after the fire has burned. let me give you an example. as a result of his presidency, martin schulz has banned a delegation of meps from travelling to the ukrainian donbas. he was invoking his concern for their safety. it's as if there weren't hundreds of journalists working in donbas at the time, as if there weren't hundreds of thousands of people living there, including women and children. the president of the european parliament has prevented meps from being able to empathize in the midst of such a fundamental conflict. the same refugees in the mediterranean. the vast majority of migrants are smuggled out of libya. in the smuggling center of sabratha port alone, 20,000 people are waiting to be transported today. dozens of journalists are operating in western libya, including sabratha. and i ask myself: how is it possible that the european parliament's delegation in libya, the de facto embassy of the european parliament in libya, does not have a permanent representation on libyan territory, but in tunisia? the answer to my question is that it's not safe in tripoli. that's right. courage, ladies and gentlemen! policies to address the migration crisis, including in the mediterranean, also require courage.
mr. chairman, i think that colleague schetina has been playing me, because unlike many others, i have actually been to a number of refugee camps. and i actually visited these refugee camps and i had the opportunity to meet people who were victims of various smugglers. and most of them were people who were uneducated, very poor, and who actually wanted to come to europe and live like their relatives, who shared, intentionally or by mistake, photographs or some videos that showed that life in europe was great. these people are usually the ones who get caught. they've been fed up with the promises of some smugglers, their assumptions and their ignorance and their feelings that they're going to be better off somewhere else. i think that just as today we have managed to create websites in some member states that inform us about the real situation in the european union, we should also try to influence people who are victims of smugglers not to go to european countries and not to give money to these organized groups, because they are constantly growing. if we look at satellite images in libya, which my colleague said is very dangerous, we can see that the houses of some smugglers are growing.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, colleagues, the simple, transparent and standardised (sts) securitisation regulation is a key milestone as we move towards a capital markets union. i believe that carefully monitored, high—quality securitisation can serve to benefit business across europe. in the eu as a whole, we are too reliant on loans and other forms of funding from banks. capital markets give businesses a new avenue for funding for their activities. the diversification of funding is important to help deliver more growth for the european economy. during our negotiations on this regulation, we tried to find the right balance between the lessons learned from the financial crisis and having a framework which ensured that we did not stifle the potential of the securitisation market. we have agreed to have a sensible level of skin in the game, with the risk retention rate for banks of 5%. we have recognised the specificities of the asset-backed commercial paper (abcp) market, particularly as regards pools of car loans and leases. we have enhanced the transparency of securitisation markets, notably through the establishment of data repositories which will enable competent authorities to have a full overview of the products in the market. we have ensured that those who are responsible for originating securitisation products take full responsibility for the products’ place in the marketplace. they will not be able to shift responsibility to empty shelves such as special—purpose vehicles. in the capital requirements regulation (crr) file we have adjusted the prudential requirements by adding a new hierarchy approach and a more risk-sensitive prudential treatment of sts securitisation. in my view, the text we will vote on tomorrow is sensible, prudent, and most of us will give european companies more possibilities to grow.
mr president, madam commissioner, it has been a long time, but finally we’ve got there, and i have to say that i am very happy that we are about to start negotiations about free trade agreement with australia and new zealand for at least three reasons. one is that what we have here are two like-minded partners, very stable countries and the fastest-growing developed economies. free trade agreements with them will definitely help to deliver jobs, growth and investment and will benefit eu businesses and citizens alike. secondly, i see a window of opportunity for the entire european union to promote free trade worldwide, after the united states became a bit more hesitant in that direction, and i think that we should take advantage of that. and thirdly, last but not least, as a rapporteur for the free trade agreement between the eu and vietnam, i can only welcome the fact that we are opening up new opportunities in the pacific region, and it can only be good news that we will cooperate more with the most dynamic economic region in the world.
mr president, for perhaps the first time in my career here in the european parliament, i will agree with mr korwin-mikk. i consider new zealand a country that is really very close to us, culturally and politically. i find it almost impossible that the level of trade should reach only eur 8 billion per year. i think we should end protectionism. there must be safeguards for trade, but trade cannot be based on protectionism, that is surely a thing of the past. i would like to remind you that it is precisely the era of president trump that we should use to establish international relations, including free trade, with these countries, which have been discussed for 20 years. i think it is time to negotiate a good fair deal that includes some safeguards, but it is not possible to exclude certain sectors entirely from this free trade.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, well i’m sorry commissioner that it is you and that you have to listen to my remarks, as i know it is not your portfolio, but i need to say that i’ve been living in an illusion. i thought that we have an internal market, that we want to foster the internal market, and that we want transparency and neutrality. however, at the same time we have one carrier that will introduce a eur 16 surcharge, which in reality means eur 32, and i wonder why? extra costs since it goes via different web portal? what does it mean? i, as a consumer, will pay eur 32 more. is there any justification? secondly, if i am a well-informed consumer of course i will not choose any other than the lufthansa website. so this is a serious issue that we have known about for two years. for one year it has been under investigation by the commission with zero results, and i need to say, commissioner, that unfortunately your reply is completely dissatisfactory. i really wonder whether there is a lack of cooperation among the stakeholders of the company which means that we don’t have a decision yet. if so, which are the ones that are not cooperating? is it because you know there is no case at all? we should know; there should be a decision if there is no case at all after one year and if the rules are insufficient. what is it that doesn't really work? what are the rules? or is it maybe, without any disrespect, is it because it’s lufthansa? we really need other carriers to do the same so that we can really investigate and pursue the issue of the case. we’ve been discussing in this plenary with a good understanding with the commission; we want to proceed with integrated ticketing, which means dismantling barriers, but this is exactly the opposite. so i must say, commissioner, please pass on the message to my good friend commissioner bulc that this is insufficient. i would be ready, with my staff, to investigate it within a few weeks because the case is crystal clear.
madam president, measures which make it difficult for airline price comparison websites have recently been introduced not only by carriers from the european union but also from third countries. the additional fees for ticket sales through other distribution systems are a major constraint on passengers, who are therefore unable to compare correctly the prices of flights with all airlines. all passengers must be able to choose freely and transparently the most advantageous offer, as provided for in the regulation on a code of conduct for the use of computerised reservation systems. there is a need to protect the interests of consumers and to ensure that reservation systems offer information in an impartial manner. the commission should therefore regularly monitor discriminatory practices through computerised reservation systems and, if it detects infringements, take clear and swift action against such practices by air carriers. but such an investigation cannot go on indefinitely.
madam president, i want to say that i have great respect for airlines, but i am very concerned about what is being discussed. if we allow this principle of violating the neutrality of information to be applied with impunity, without the necessary supervision by the appropriate dg move, then i think it is truly scandalous. we should insist on compliance with the rules, and if consumers are being pressured into a certain behaviour, then in my view it is unfair competition. this is a breach of competition rules. the consumer has the right to full information and not to be asked for it only in a particular form and by a certain means. i think that's been said quite a lot. i think the most important thing is that the principle of 'whatever it takes' should apply in the european union. if this principle is violated, it raises fundamental questions about whether equality of rights exists in the european union.
madam president, i would like to begin by expressing my condolences to the families of the victims and my deep appreciation for the solidarity of the people affected by this disaster. at the same time, i'd like to say that i think the basic password is, "whoever gives quickly, gives twice". i think that's our challenge. the european solidarity fund was already modified during this election period, its rules for the issuing of these funds, but i think that more can be done. firstly, to allocate more resources to this solidarity fund and secondly, to be even faster and more efficient. we can't fight the criminals who burn the forests, but we can do more to strengthen our prevention. i think that's very important and it should be reflected in our land use and in rural management and development. i would also like to say at the end that fire protection is a matter for the individual states, but the fund for an effective response should be a common task for all of us.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, i have read with great interest the report by mr chrysogonos on the application of the law in the european union for 2015. i must say that the figure of 3 450 complaints to the commission for possible breaches of law in the european union surprised me unpleasantly. perhaps this is a sign that the legislation being passed is complex and incomprehensible. in an age of growing euroscepticism, we should be debating in particular which legislation is redundant and burdensome and which, on the contrary, is beneficial to citizens at european level. this means what common eu legislation can improve the quality of life and ensure economic development. for example, european cooperation in tackling the gender pay gap, which in the european union is as high as 16%, can only be beneficial. such inequality is, of course, inexcusable. i also believe that we should focus more on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. i also believe that greater involvement of national parliaments is necessary. the national parliaments must be given the opportunity to express their views at an early stage of the legislative process, and the so-called early warning system must be revised to ensure better application of the yellow card procedure. we don't want any more unnecessary regulation and more administrative burden. we need to ensure that social partners, civil society, consumer organisations are more involved in the legislative process. the aim is a more transparent and open legislative process, simple, clear and understandable legislation that reduces red tape.
mr president, the european union is a community of law and i am pleased to be able to discuss this report prepared by mr chrysogonos and i thank him for his work on it. i would like to say that, as mr mastálka has said, there are examples of legislation where the european commission could actually propose to change it, for example the pointless directive on the changeover of winter and summer time is a hot candidate for change because it has been shown not only to be harmful but also to be of no use. secondly, i cannot agree with the amendment tabled by the confederation of the european united left and the nordic green left, which says that the application of european union law is contrary to the welfare of the absolute majority of the people of europe. first, this is not true in substance, because european union law contributes to european integration, and european integration contributes to the well-being of the vast majority of europe's citizens. secondly, i am opposed to the use of law, including european law, as a tool of class struggle. i enjoyed it a lot when i was young, studying at a communist law school.
mr president, for the european union to achieve all its objectives, it must function well. the european union brings many benefits to businesses and citizens, but they do not come automatically. in order for people to enjoy the benefits of membership of the european union and the protection afforded to them by european law, states must implement and transpose european law and must safeguard and enforce it. however, we are facing a transposition deficit, as this report on the control of the application of the law in the european union demonstrates once again. there are a number of negative effects. for example, the disparities in legislation, the barriers, the lack of protection and the uncertainty facing businesses and citizens in the european union. there is also a need for more discussion of this deficit and more consideration of how to combat infringements and proceedings before the european commission and the court of justice in an effective manner. the timely and correct application of european union legislation must also be ensured, but we see that the established method is not sufficiently active. i'm not calling for the court to penalize anyone much more and for us to lean towards solutions that will have financial consequences. i would urge us to think more about how to explain the transposition debt in the member states effectively. the countries with the biggest debts, greece and italy, are not able to comply with these sanctions. i therefore want the european commission to think about how to exercise its power and how to continue to communicate more with the member states.
mr president, the proper application of european union law is important for two reasons in particular. it enables the european union to function properly and provides legal certainty to citizens and institutions and, of course, to businesses, that they can rely on the law in force, that they can act with confidence in the law in force. the commission and the citizens are responsible for monitoring compliance with european union law. as for the citizens' control, i think we should be very keen on it and we should support this very civic initiative. one of the points we have repeatedly called for is the requirement to set up a single central portal for complaints, but also for information on infringement or non-compliance proceedings. it's very important to me that there's some sort of decline in the number of lawsuits being filed, which is no doubt due to the lower legislative activity this election cycle, which i'm happy to acknowledge. on the other hand, the violation of the law is still extremely serious. i regard the violations of environmental rights as particularly serious examples, and not only in the new member states. austria, for example. i do not want to draw a line between the old and the new member states, but it is important that the european union's rule really applies, no matter who falls, particularly in the environmental field. as far as gold-plating is concerned, i would like to make one more important point. i think we should really emphasise the role of the national parliaments too. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur for presenting a very good report.
mr president, first of all, let me thank all the colleagues on the committee on legal affairs who contributed to the final text of the report. i shall vote in favour of this report, not only because it mentions the czech republic in a positive context, but also because it is a balanced text overall. citizens expect the european union to have rules that ensure a high standard of environmental quality. but this can be achieved without unnecessary red tape and the creation of new institutions. that is why i am not in favour of the creation of a european fund as proposed in the report. however, i feel that the original 2004 directive needs to be modernised and that the lessons learned from its implementation should be used. the european commission should focus on only those changes in the future that are based on indisputable facts and whose impact on the quality of the environment is clear. that's the only way that regulation will make sense.
mr president, when we passed the environmental responsibility directive in 2004, we were basing ourselves on alarming numbers. according to the european commission, 300,000 sites in europe were potentially or actually contaminated by harmful substances this year, and the cost of remediating such damage is estimated to be in the hundreds of billions of euros. i don't think we have much more positive data available today. however, full implementation of the environmental liability directive was achieved only in 2010, after considerable ups and downs. seven member states are still facing compliance problems today. on behalf of the confederation of the european united left and the nordic green left, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his correct report. we share its conclusions that there is now a need to revise this directive. we therefore appeal to the commission. it is necessary to amend the definition, to extend the scope of objective liability for environmental damage and to apply the 'polluter pays' principle more rigorously.
mr president, i am of course of the same opinion that biodiversity, the protection of soil diversity and the protection of water against damage are very important values that we should protect for future generations. the polluter pays principle is undoubtedly correct, but it raises fundamental questions about who is the polluter. in this sense, i would also welcome the extension of the scope of the directive. i think that question has been raised here and it would be appropriate for the commission to respond to it accordingly. i think that the damage compensation fund, an instrument for preventing and at the same time compensating for the damage that will be done to the environment, is also a very good idea. in general, it must be said that it is precisely in the area of environmental protection that it is essential for the proper functioning of the european union to ensure that this directive is complied with and that its scope is extended so that citizens can rely on it and act with confidence.
member of the commission. – mr president, may i address some very important topics which were raised, especially speaking about the call to consider the possibility to extend the scope of the environmental liability directive (eld) and to impose liability for damage to human health, including damage to the air. within the refit evaluation of the eld carried out between 2013 and 2016, the scope of damage was also extensively considered. it was, in particular, subject to one of the studies in the preparation of the refit evaluation and commission report. the evaluation concluded that damage to air is a rather uncommon category for a strict liability system as it by its nature mostly diffused damage – inter alia, damage which cannot be clearly attributed to individually—specified liable persons. similarly, damage to human health would also require a fundamentally different approach to that of a restoration in kind which governs the eld. for human health damage, traditionally civil liability systems for personal or bodily injury and loss of life exist in all member states. this is normal traditional or conventional damage dealt with through civil liability and enforced by courts, in contrast to environmental damage, which is dealt with by public authorities. however, i agree that the commission should look into this issue within the next refit evaluation of the eld. given the problems with air pollution, particulate matter and nitrogen dioxide, dieselgate. also, the question needs to be considered of whether the eld is the most appropriate basis to deal with such issues. i understand, of course, that several member states take different views, speaking about possibilities to introduce mandatory financial security and a european fund for environmental damage caused by industrial activities. the question as to whether mandatory financial security should be established at eu level was the subject of the first and second commission eld report in 2010 and 2016 and the refit evaluation. also, the commission investigated in 2012 and 2013 the feasibility of a european industry risk—sharing facility or fund. there are several obstacles, including the ‘polluter pays’ principle and, of course, the different views of different stakeholders. the commission has therefore made financial security a topic and working area in the multiannual work programme 2017-2020. the commission will launch a comprehensive investigation of the situation and challenges in the eu by looking also in the individual member states, paying particular regard to the mentioned big issues of eld concerning financial security and with a view to coming up with as many concrete interpretations and recommendations as soon as possible. honourable members, while there may be some differences in views on the immediate way to further implement and develop the environmental liability directive to make it more effective and efficient, we agree in principle with most of the views and ideas in the report. but, at this point in time, rather than launching new or amended legislation, we should work on better implementation, notably through the joint eld multiannual work programme 2017-2020. the commission is already implementing this work programme, and recently brought together stakeholders and government experts at a workshop which led to a common understanding document with practical measures to help competent authorities, operators and other stakeholders to implement the eld. all the results are available on the commission’s environmental liability webpage.
for those who were not being patient, ms lauristin is leaving the house, so i think it was a question of courtesy to give her the opportunity to speak.
that concludes the vote.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for presenting a very good report, even though she was working on only a certain minimum legal basis. i would like to say that the report we have before us solves part of the problem facing inland navigation today, namely the lack of objective recognition of qualifications. this is undoubtedly essential for the further development of the sector and is also important for the overall functioning of the two schemes, namely the danube and rhine certificates. we need to make this profession more attractive to young people, and i think it is important to remember the issue of digitalisation, but also the interconnectedness of european inland navigation. i know that the rapporteur has only worked with what is actually allowed under the directive we are discussing here. on the other hand, i think we're a little bit halfway there. recognising qualifications is important, but it's also important to develop the field further, and that's what i think our task should be in the future.
for the s&d group. madam commissioner, mr president, despite the fact that road safety in the european union has improved considerably over the last ten years and the number of road deaths has fallen by almost half, we are still talking about more than 25 000 road accident victims. moreover, recent statistics show that the reduction in deaths and serious injuries is not in line with our long-term goals. a car accident is caused by a number of factors and combinations of these. from road user behaviour and errors, including fatigue, stress, distracted driving and driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs, to enforcement, education and upbringing. the state of infrastructure, vehicle safety, and effective emergency care all play a role. this report focuses on proposals to improve vehicle safety, which should respond to advances in technological development and take advantage of further options to prevent or mitigate the consequences of road accidents. i would remind you that at the beginning of this parliamentary term we approved the installation of ecall in all new car models from 1 april next year. it was the european parliament and some member states, including the czech republic, that led the initiative. the category of innovations in vehicle safety undoubtedly includes driver assistance systems. for example, an automatic emergency braking system with pedestrian and cyclist recognition can help reduce the number of the most vulnerable road users, who account for 30% of fatal road accidents the system for reducing the dead-end of lorries is also of considerable concern to vulnerable road users . in addition to assistance systems, improved safety can be achieved by redesigning the front and rear of heavy goods vehicles, buses or coaches improved visibility can help drivers to better assess the road situation, prevent collisions or mitigate their consequences this is particularly true in cases of collision with cyclists or pedestrians, for whom such an impact may have fatal consequences. the biggest killers on european roads are still speeding, alcohol and unfastened seat belts, which is why we support initiatives that address these risk factors. i believe that the commission will take account of the proposals contained in this report in the forthcoming revision of the general safety regulation which it plans to present early next year. and i hope he's not late. ladies and gentlemen, despite all the measures we are talking about today, the most important thing is that we as a society see road accidents with dead and seriously injured as something unacceptable that can and must change. on sunday we will commemorate the world day of victims of traffic accidents . it 's not enough to remember these daily misfortunes . i 'm not .
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, let me first of all thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive and stimulating work. i am pleased that many of my proposals have found their way into a report which is very energetic and ambitious. there can be no doubt that this is a vital subject that deserves our attention. in 2016, 25 500 people died in road accidents in the eu and another 135 000 were seriously injured. although europe is doing well compared to other continents, we can do even more to protect life. the report therefore focuses on driver assistance systems, for example, which will significantly improve road safety, and advocates their installation in all new cars. however, the modern age brings a number of important issues to the topic of road safety. experts estimate that by 2020, there will be about 10 million self-driving cars on the road. so the basic question is, who should have the keyword in such a vehicle, the car or the person? i believe that it must pay, that man is the one who has the ultimate control over everything. transport automation is not about turning the driver into a servant, but a master who uses technology to benefit all road users. although the debates on this report have often resembled science fiction novels, there can be no doubt that the future will change the transport sector and we as the european parliament and as europe must be prepared. because if we fall asleep on the security issue, we risk human lives.
mr president, the european commission and the european parliament have for some years now adopted two major objectives for improving road safety. the first was to halve the number of road deaths by 2020. the second is to achieve zero mortality in the european union by 2050. currently, about twenty-five and a half thousand people die on the roads each year, and 135,000 are seriously injured. the european parliament has adopted a number of important documents in the past that improve the quality of infrastructure and the safety of road vehicles. the regulation on the introduction of the ecall in-vehicle system was adopted only in 2015. most of the victims are cyclists and pedestrians. therefore, a number of eu countries, including the czech republic, have adopted regulations on the mandatory wearing of reflective elements by pedestrians under certain conditions. the resolution following the report by dieter-lebrecht koch has one gap. there is a lack of regular updating of all drivers. this additional training cannot be replaced by the best of the mandatory driver assistance safety features. with that reservation, i strongly recommend the report under discussion for approval. i believe that in the near future it will be possible to legislate for the regular updating of driving skills by all licence holders. 90% of accidents are caused by inappropriate driving.
mr president, i would like to thank mr koch for presenting a very stimulating report. i would like to point out to the czech republic that the czech republic, together with latvia, has recorded the greatest decline in the number of accidents with these fatalities and serious injuries to road users, and it is important to stress that unfortunately european roads are not among the safest in the world and it is important to reduce the number of 25 000 deaths per year. it is important to include a change in infrastructure, and what mr novakov said is a very stimulating proposal. secondly, of course, there is the need to change the safety equipment in cars, and there are a number of incentives for this. and thirdly, it is important to think about the driver and his skills and abilities, for example, to recognise pedestrians or cyclists who are also involved in traffic on the road. so all three of these measures need to be changed in order to achieve the very goal of halving the number of accidents for the next period.
mr president, commissioner, it is a very sad reality of the 21st century that in 2017 we have to state that 215 million christians are persecuted. who can object to a religion that preaches love, mercy, the right to freedom of religion, and the right to a life of dignity? that is why christians are so persecuted today. in some countries, such as egypt, pakistan, india, saudi arabia, christians are threatened with violence and oppression because of the demonstration of power by other religious groups, especially radical muslims. in china or vietnam, christians are oppressed by totalitarian regimes, especially in north korea, which is now the 13th most persecuted country for christians. it is important that the european parliament stands up for those who are wrongfully prosecuted, and i am happy when some are finally released, such as petr jašek or miriam ibrahimová from a sudanese prison. but let's not forget about asia bibi, who was mentioned here, who has been in prison for over 3,000 days. pope francis, who is today a true christian authority, calls for reconciliation and solidarity with all. christians are the bearers of peace and reconciliation. that is why we in the european parliament have an obligation to ask for freedom for christians where they are suffering, we have an obligation to ask for support where they want to rebuild their homes and live in peace. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer the question by raising the blue card. of course, it is one thing to clearly express our solidarity with all persecuted, unjustly persecuted christians, to claim that europe was and is christian, but we must do something concrete, whether it is through diplomacy, when dealing with china, for example, when we declare the european year of tourism eu china. then we are also to ask for the release of christian prisoners or to support financially the reconstruction of the middle east after the horrors of war through development programmes. of course, we should also think of the support given to christians who are rebuilding their homes here, as mentioned earlier.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, we have already talked about how reports from independent institutions show that christians are the most persecuted group of people on this planet. but these reports also show trends, and these trends are getting worse all the time. the eu should therefore call this persecution by its proper name. it's genocide, we've heard the numbers here a few times. and genocide, that is the crime of crimes. from the christian-jewish roots, flows the very foundation of our western civilization, the respect for the individual. it is also the basis of the system of protection of fundamental rights. the protection of human dignity is what makes our civilization different from other parts of the world. it is therefore in the interest of all of us that the defence of christianity in the world should become a priority of the european union's foreign policy, otherwise we undermine the foundations of our civilization.
mr. chairman, the demographic change is indeed profound. population ageing, declining numbers of children and youth, as well as the migration of young people for employment opportunities. what are the causes of this demographic ageing and indeed the disappearance of dense settlements in some regions? these are mainly lack of investment, poor infrastructure, poor connectivity and limited access to social services, as well as a lack of job opportunities. i am of the opinion that the basic criterion for the allocation of cohesion support should be the gdp criterion, but we can discuss how to complement this criterion appropriately. unfortunately, this is not the full scope of this report. however, i agree with the rapporteur that the problem of population ageing must be tackled as she has suggested in her report.
in writing. demographic change and depopulation of certain areas pose a challenge and a threat to europe's future. it is right that the report calls for the eu to integrate demographic aspects and support for families into all policy areas, but i cannot agree that the greatest burden of tackling the demographic problem lies on the shoulders of cohesion policy. cohesion policy is a privileged and effective instrument that helps to level the economic levels of countries and regions in the eu and leads to the overall convergence of the union. looking at the demographic map of the union (the proportion of citizens aged 65 and over), it is clear that in the foreseeable future the demographic problem will affect the richer eu countries more than those with lower gdp levels, and it is clear that the richer countries can solve this problem on their own. the demographic criterion would weaken the current gdp criterion. in the long term (measured by today's birth rate), the problem affects almost everyone in the eu, with some exceptions, and should therefore be tackled horizontally through various instruments. but the report rightly focuses on tackling the problem of depopulation in some regions.
mr president, the aim of the action plan is to outline the next steps towards creating a genuine single market in retail financial services. however, it is important for the czech republic that its currency is not the euro and therefore the part on transaction fees is particularly relevant to it. the problem is that fees for cross-border and domestic euro payments are already covered by the 2009 cross-border payments regulation, but payments in currencies other than euro are not covered by this regulation and it is fees for such cross-border transactions that remain high and significantly exceed the volume of fees for purely domestic transactions in currencies other than euro. it is clear that the level of these fees also discourages consumers from transactions, in particular of a small scale, in these other currencies. i therefore very much welcome the fact that the proposal contains measures to extend the scope of the crossborder payments regulation to these other transactions.
mr president, this month we celebrate the anniversary of the end of the communist regime in eastern europe and the fall of the berlin wall. last week we remembered the one-hundred-year anniversary of the bolshevik takeover of power in russia. the legacy of communist repression is still visible in our countries. that is why we need to make sure that the legacy of this criminal regime is presented in a relevant context. against the background of these november anniversaries, i would like to touch on the issue of the house of european history and its exhibition, notably the part which concerns the 20th century. there are studies that suggest that this exhibition does not reflect the communist tyranny in central and eastern europe. it does not even mention important events such as the budapest uprising or prague spring, or dissidents like václav havel and others. the european parliament has some power over this institution, so we should push for changing the exhibition appropriately.
mr president, i would like to draw attention to one of the biggest problems facing consumers in europe today. for criminal activity with used cars, especially for mileage and vehicle history fraud. each year, millions of european customers are victims of illegal practices involving fraudulent kilometres. it is worth noting that surveys estimate that this accounts for up to 30% of cars sold on the european market, with losses amounting to up to eur 9.6 billion per year. it is essential to stop this illegal activity and i repeatedly call on the european commission to take up this issue and, as it deals with dual quality food, to deal with the criminal activity associated with fraud in the used car market.
mr president, i would like to draw attention to the problem of smaller towns and cities, especially in the rings around the capital cities. this concerns both the czech republic and the european union. these smaller towns are affected by the huge demands on infrastructure and the availability of public services. i am talking about the problem of suburbanization, which is the result of the movement of large groups of people from these big cities to the adjacent areas, which creates pressure on local and regional governments. it is important to call on the commission to use cohesion policy measures to stem the growing emigration from sparsely populated regions where adequate infrastructure and a sufficient level of services are lacking. these are the basic conditions for maintaining families with children in particular, and i am glad that commissioner creţu is sitting here to hear my contribution.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, we are talking again, unfortunately, about new tax scandals. we do not know how many millions of documents, with more than 100 000 names, constitute illegal behaviour. maybe most of them are actually legal; but they matter, not only because in the view of many people they are immoral – they matter because they are harming our society. extensive use of loopholes in tax systems, or intentional or unintentional creation of special tax regimes by some tax authorities, are harming our economy. they are harming competition, they are creating unfair ways of increasing inequality. they are harming fiscal policy and, as a consequence, citizens are losing their trust in our society. how to react on actions that can in a broad sense be legal? there are two basic tools. the first one is better, simpler and clearer tax rules, and we should make them. and the second is to convince the others to do the same. as the european union, we are in an extremely good position to pursue this agenda. first of all, we are a superpower. we can not only lead by example, but more decisively use soft and hard powers to persuade the others that are making the game unfair. and secondly, we must acknowledge that many of the problems are not outside the eu but within the eu. this is the moment where i have to turn to the finance ministers, because they have the power. this is what the treaty says. they have power but they also have responsibility, so i ask you, or rather i urge you, not to use the cheap excuses, not to insist on small benefits for you that are paid for in multiples by the others, and not to hide behind the unanimity rules and to act. we should modernise the tax regime. we can close the loopholes. and in some cases, do not be afraid to go for harmonisation. i am not talking about tax rates, i am talking about the tax base. if we progress in that, we will benefit all. society will benefit, the economy will benefit. it will make europe stronger so we should not hesitate. we should act.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the paradise papers revelations show once again the urgent need for europe to intensify its fight against tax evasion and money laundering. i would like to thank the journalists again for their work. the names of the leaks may change, but the mechanisms revealed remain the same: anonymous companies or trusts set up and maintained by intermediaries in tax havens, low or zero transparency and low or zero taxes, and the rich and famous involved, including the queen, whose finances are internally and externally audited. i hope this new leak has opened the eyes of those member states who had not comprehended the magnitude of the problem. there is a good opportunity for them to prove that, as this afternoon we will conduct a crucial trilogue negotiation on the revision of the anti—money laundering directive. after more than a year’s work, a month ago the european parliament’s committee of inquiry into money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion (pana) adopted its report and recommendations, which will be voted on in plenary in december. the committee calls on the european union and its member states to properly implement and reinforce its legal tools, to shift from secrecy to transparency, mutual cooperation and exchange of information. it urges both the commission and the member states to step up their efforts, commitments, cooperation and investment in financial and human resources, to improve supervision and enforcement. it counts on the leading role of the commission in setting up criteria for a common eu list of non—cooperative tax jurisdictions, and calls on the council not to dilute, but rather to increase, the ambition of the criteria of the said list. it calls for more efficient sanctions against banks and intermediaries that are knowingly involved in illegal tax or money laundering schemes. there are more than 200 recommendations adopted by the committee. the way to prevent money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion is charted, and a lot has already been done, but still more needs to be done in the area of adoption, implementation and enforcement of legislation.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, for more than ten years the european union has had a system of crossborder cooperation between consumer protection authorities, which has improved the monitoring, investigation and prosecution of crossborder infringements. however, the review of its functioning has identified a number of limitations that prevent more effective enforcement of the rules set. supervisory authorities in the eu's internal market must literally work together on a daily basis and have sufficient powers and tools to deal with cross-border cases. this need has been further enhanced by the development of e-commerce. i would remind you that the proposal is one of the priorities of the digital single market strategy. the proposed update of the existing rules on cross-border surveillance cooperation is intended to ensure faster, more active and more consistent enforcement. we need effective mechanisms that also prevent different approaches to enforcement for the same infringement. let me outline some of the concrete measures by which this regulation is intended to contribute to enhancing consumer protection and creating a level playing field for all operators in the internal market. the proposed legislation will substantially strengthen the powers of supervisory authorities in the areas of investigation, enforcement and remediation. to facilitate investigations, the new system will allow supervisory authorities in all eu countries to check the purchase of goods under a hidden identity. the supervisory authorities will have the power to impose sanctions and require the trader to undertake to offer appropriate redress to consumers who have suffered damage. the new rules will also improve the enforcement of consumer rights in the online environment. in the event of a risk of serious and irreparable harm to the interests of consumers, the supervisory authorities will be able to require the suspension of the website if the operator of the website fails to respond and refuses to remedy the situation. the supervisory authorities should also have the power to request information from domain registrars and banks in order to establish the identity of the responsible trader. fraudulent websites are a growing phenomenon that is currently difficult for the responsible authorities to combat effectively. the rules for the exercise of those powers are an important part of the regulation. here we have been very strict about the proportionality of enforcement in accordance with union law, national law and the principles of the charter of fundamental rights. member states will continue to have the option, as they have done so far, of having the competent authority exercise its powers directly or by means of judicial submissions. this is already the case under the current regulation and i do not think that anything needs to be changed in this respect. one of the novelties of the review is the institution of the so-called large-scale infringement of consumer protection legislation with a union dimension. this is a new instrument that requires complex investigations and coordinated enforcement across a large number of member states. the commission will always be given the coordinating role in this case, but each of the actors involved will clearly know what is expected of them and how to proceed. the operation of the database and the information exchange system will also be improved, and the whole cooperation system will be made more transparent thanks to the european parliament. the revision of the rules will also improve the position of consumer organisations, which will be able to provide information to the supervisory authorities on suspected infringements through official channels. the so-called firsthand information from consumers has often been unable or unwilling for the supervisory authorities to work with, and this will change. nor are trade associations, which also have a good knowledge of the market and information that the supervisory authorities may never have access to, excluded. the supervisory authorities will also be able to coordinate consumer market investigations more easily. where market trends, consumer complaints or other indications indicate that widespread infringements of consumer protection legislation may be, or are, occurring, a european-wide inquiry may be called and binding measures may be taken in all member states. so far, this has been done on a limited scale and only in an online environment. i believe that the regulation will be an effective instrument to punish all well-known illegal practices, but it will also serve, for example, to combat dual quality of products and wherever consumers are discriminated against or treated unfairly. the main motto of this legislation is to facilitate the exchange of knowledge between national supervisory authorities and to enable them to act together.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, there have been many changes in the european union's internal market recently. we need to respond to the challenges of the digital economy and the development of cross-border trade in the eu. i believe that the regulation we are discussing today will contribute to the early detection of unfair practices such as double standards in food. it appears that seemingly similar products are sold on the eu market, but in some member states they have, for example, a lower meat content, a higher fat content or contain another type of sweetener. (the chairman interrupted the speaker because of a problem with the interpretation.) this is particularly true in the countries of central europe, which is unacceptable to our citizens. strengthening the role of consumer organisations and the early detection of unfair practices will help to address the spread of infringements across the eu. the natural person consumer must not be harmed by the development of the internal market, must not be its hostage or its oppressor. i call on all colleagues to support the agreement reached in the trilogue, which i regard as a balanced compromise. thank you, reporter, for your excellent work.
mr president, within the european union businesses and consumers should know no borders. this is the key to the digital single market and to the union as a whole. sadly, however, just as companies and individuals know no borders, so too do bad operators and bad products, people who do not respect consumer protection law and think they can get away with it because they are in one member state and the victim is in another. consumers will only go cross-border if they have trust: trust that all national authorities are working together to keep out and sanction those bad apples. up to 37% of european e-commerce websites are in breach of eu consumer protection law. it is in the collective interest of each member state to ensure the better enforcement of consumer protection law, both at home and cross-border. while we do have some doubts as to the website takedowns, it is thanks to the good work of commissioner jourová, the rapporteur, and others that the overall package is a fine outcome.
mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to thank all the shadow rapporteurs, namely carlos coelho, richard sulík, jasenko selimovič and julia redová, and the european parliament's administration for their constructive cooperation and support throughout the work. my thanks also go to the slovak and maltese presidency representatives for their enormous commitment to reaching an agreement. i would also like to thank the draftsmen, commissioner jourová and the directorate-general for justice and consumers, but first of all my assistant, michal vaňáček, for the enormous amount of work he has done on this text. like all legislation, this revision is a compromise between the european parliament and the member states. the negotiated text has not deviated from its intended objective and can bring tangible benefits to european citizens. i would therefore like to call on all colleagues who support the establishment and enforcement of fair conditions in the internal market to support this agreement negotiated today.
in writing. – i support the work of the rapporteur olga sehnalová. parliament should adopt this report as it will strengthen national authorities to enforce consumer rights. the consumer protection cooperation (cpc) regulation from 2004 set up effective methods of cooperation between public authorities responsible for enforcing consumers’ rights, but the latest development in e-commerce and trade is asking for a reform of the rules. we need efficient tools for cooperation between the enforcers of consumer law that are effective enough in the digital age to ensure consumers a safe online shopping experience. the reform of the cpc regulation empowers consumers by giving the national authorities powers to impose fines and penalties payments, or to seek to obtain commitment to compensate the consumers for the harm done. consumer rights are becoming progressively more important as the trade develops new ways of business and so the legislation needs to adapt to this evolution as well.
the newswoman. mr president, i am against this motion as rapporteur, i recommend that we vote on the outcome of the negotiations, on the final agreement.
mr president, i supported the draft report by mrs sehnall because i see crossborder cooperation between national authorities, which can directly support more effective monitoring, investigation and prosecution of crossborder infringements, as one of the fundamental pillars of compliance with consumer protection law. as traders are constantly widening their sphere of activity in the single market, any infringement of consumers' rights should also be addressed in a uniform manner. the revised regulation must therefore define enforcement mechanisms to be used by national authorities to eliminate illegal practices and be applicable in all member states. i therefore regard the commission's proposal, which introduces new concepts such as a widespread infringement of consumer protection legislation with a union dimension or a new warning mechanism, as a real step forward and i supported it.
mr president, i would like to stress that i see a number of positive aspects in this report. it is a fact that demographic change is the most significant challenge for the member states of the european union and for europe as a whole in this century. however, as positive as i find the report's attention to these points, it is important to say that the report also says in principle that the gdp criterion for the granting of aid under the cohesion funds should be weakened. and the rapporteur kind of looked in the door that she opened, but she did not say what the implications of those other criteria should be in the allocation of resources under cohesion policy. i think it is important that the gdp criterion remains primary and, for those economies that are not so strong, that this criterion remains the main one, possibly supplemented by demographic indicators. those economies that are performing well, those demographics, they have to be able to manage within their own economic parameters.
madam president, dear colleagues, the situation of the rule of law in malta has been raising many questions in recent years. now it has reached its peak. daphne caruana was murdered because she reported on the panama papers scandal which directly implicated the maltese government. this murder has become a symbol of the fight against corruption and lack of activity and transparency of the maltese government is completely unacceptable in an eu member state. it is proof of a weakened state institution. i would like to appeal to maltese colleagues from s&d, the maltese labour party – you must put pressure on your prime minister and government. mr commissioner, you have to play a more active role of control and enforcement of justice.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, if a journalist is murdered it is to silence her. if it is done in this way i surmise it is not just to silence her but also to send a clear message to anybody else who might want to investigate things. that is why the way this murder was carried out is reminiscent of the attacks on borsellino and falcone. so what we are dealing with here is a very serious matter that needs to be pursued, and the investigation should be allowed to run its full course and no stone left unturned. that is why it is good that the maltese authorities also engage in international cooperation with the fbi, with scotland yard, with the nfi in the netherlands, calling also on the european institutions and on interpol to help them. what is not on though is already today to draw conclusions about who did it. i think we should be clear that we stress that this investigation should be allowed to run its full course, regardless of the consequences for anyone anywhere in malta, or elsewhere by the way. but i would caution in drawing conclusions today, as some appear to be doing here, about who is responsible for this. that is not for now. my second point is this. many questions were put here today, many pertinent questions about many issues relating to the situation in malta in a number of areas. i give you the assurance here today that the european commission will pursue all these questions and give you answers when we can, especially mr giegold had a number of questions – we’ve taken careful note. other members had also a number of questions. we will pursue those questions and then provide them with the answers whenever we can and continue to pursue them if we need to investigate further. but again, what is not on as far as the commission is concerned is to start with a conclusion and then look for facts to support that conclusion. that is not how we do this. we first look into the questions that were put on the table, and then if we come up with conclusions on those questions it is soon enough to then see what other steps might need to be taken. i think every member state deserves that way of acting when we look into issues pertaining to the rule of law and other such subjects. one issue i want to briefly highlight, because it was raised by many members, is the so-called sale of passports. in our 2017 citizens’ report we announced that we would produce next year, 2018, a report on national schemes granting eu citizenship to investors. and by the way, malta is not the only member state that has such a scheme. a few member states have it and, aside from that, other member states have schemes to grant permanent residency to people who invest. so it is not just a one member state issue, it is a broader issue and we will refer to that in our 2018 report. this report will describe the commission’s actions in this area, current national law and practices in all member states, and provide some guidance. we are working on this report right now. member states – and this i can already say now – should use their prerogatives towards citizenship in line with their international and eu law obligations and in a spirit of sincere cooperation with other member states. simply because, if you become a citizen of one member state that grants you access to all the other member states. so you have to have an attitude of sincere cooperation with all member states. so we will go into that in our report. and i want to stress also, because that was raised several times, the commission insists with malta to really seriously look into the possibility to join the european public prosecutor’s office. it would be in malta’s interest. there is another member state that i know very well that also did not want to join the eppo but now, with a new government, they have changed their mind and they have expressed their intention to join it, and i welcome that. i think mr michel is right when he says that it would be good for all member states to be part of that so that we can have these european investigations into the use of european funds. let me conclude very briefly by saying that i do express the hope that, given the seriousness of this issue, and given the seriousness of the questions that were put on the table, we do not turn this into a party-political fight. that is not what she deserves. that is not what daphne deserves. let’s continue to act as this house has always done with integrity and perseverance so that we allow the investigation to run its full course so that the ones responsible for this atrocious crime are brought to justice, and if we discover systemic issues that need to be addressed, that we address them in a spirit of cooperation with the member state concerned.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, the estonian presidency and the council as a whole attach great importance to upholding the rule of law and fundamental rights in all member states and in the union. we are confident that the maltese law enforcement authorities are capable of upholding the rule of law in the face of recent developments. the maltese citizens seem to believe that as well, according to a recent opinion poll. one observation of a more general nature: the eu is much better at dealing with the political issues between the member states than within the member states because that is what the union was created for. it is also worth remembering that the effectiveness of the eu rests on the delicate balance between respecting the sovereignty of its nation states and cooperating together to make states stronger together. nevertheless, it is clear that all member states have to comply with fundamental democratic standards and the rule of law. speaking on behalf of the council and in the name of all its members, i am not in a position to state more at this stage. however, the council is following this debate closely and i can assure the honourable members that i will pay particular attention to the views expressed here today.
i have received two motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 123(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 15 november 2017. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on multilateral negotiations in view of the 11th wto ministerial conference (2017/2861(rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, i really appreciate the support that you have given to the commission and the eu negotiating tactics here, and the priorities. ideally we would depart from buenos aires just before christmas with a balanced package of negotiated outcomes and an ambitious agenda of work going forward. it would show that the world trade organization (wto) is still relevant, still alive and kicking, and that the multilateral global trading system is still there and is functioning. certain forces are putting that into question. i can tell you that it is not only the us, there are also other countries who are problematic in this regard, but we are really working towards that aim in the european union. our team in geneva is doing a fantastic job to reach out to the different embassies and delegations there. i have personally spoken to a lot of different ministers, and our people around the world are trying their utmost to see if we can find compromises that are as broad as possible. as i told you, we have in the eu, sometimes together with other countries, put forward proposals that we think would bring the multilateral agenda forward. we always had the least—developed countries in mind at the centre of this, in order to see how we can help them to further integrate into the global trading system. as for the proposals, you could say that they are not ambitious enough, but they would still move the global agenda forward in a way that is reasonable in 2017. bilateral trade agreements are today necessary as a complement to that – the wto cannot solve all the issues that ambitious trade agreements can do bilaterally, but the multilateral system is still key in this, together with its disputes system. that has been working very well and it has served us in the european union well, but it has also served the united states very well – evidence shows that they very often come out winners of their procedures. we must really find a solution to the blockage of the appellate body. i heard many concerns here about agriculture. there is a willingness to debate trade in more general terms. i am happy to do that on another occasion. i can assure you that we are very aware of the limits and the red lines when it comes to agriculture. so you can rest assured that we will not compromise on this, and i will also be going with phil hogan, we will be there together for the whole week. we are not naive, we know that it is not easy to agree, it is difficult enough between 28 countries in this union but in the wto there are 164 member states. so it is not easy, but when we do agree it is really powerful. we are also willing to listen to calls for reform: an organisation always needs to reform, but it has to be in a way that strengthens and further develops the wto; it cannot be a way to undermine or to weaken the wto. that is why we need to listen to concrete proposals and bring that forward. that discussion cannot take hostage the actual agenda of the wto ministerial conference. i thank you for the resolution that i hope you will vote through tomorrow. it contains a lot of very important issues and i am happy that there will be such a knowledgeable and an engaged delegation in buenos aires from the european parliament, and i look forward to cooperating with you there.
madam commissioner, thank you. i appreciate the fact that this is a debate where you have responded to the question – i think the applause is a sign of that. this is not always the case with every commissioner, so it is highly appreciated. i have received one motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 123(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 15 november 2017. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by laima liucija andrikienė and knut fleckenstein, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on a european parliament recommendation to the council, the commission and the eeas on the eastern partnership, in the run-up to the november 2017 summit (2017/2130(ini)) (a8—0308/2017).
mr president, the european parliament's recommendation on the eastern partnership is a strange mixture of realistic ambitions, political declarations, nonsensical russophobia and ignoring the results of referendums in a number of countries. the ambitious objectives include visa liberalisation, visa-free travel where appropriate on the basis of defined criteria and readmission agreements with individual countries. unrealistic goals include trying to reduce dependence on fossil fuels by decommissioning older nuclear power plants and attempts to prevent the construction of new facilities, such as the nuclear power plant in the belarusian ostrovets. the report completely ignores the results of popular referendums in a number of countries in the region. there is no mention of the inadmissibility of building foreign bases in this part of the world. and it sets out in an unprecedented way what is and is not acceptable in the military realm. the minsk agreements are completely devoid of appeal to ukraine, which is clearly not complying with them. for these reasons, i cannot support the report.
mr. president, the russian aggression against ukraine continues, the annexation of crimea continues, and the occupation of two georgian regions continues. it is essential that the summit declaration to be drawn up explicitly mentions the fact of aggression, as the european parliament does in its report. the russian hybrid threats are spreading misinformation about the eu in the eastern partnership countries and are trying to drive a wedge between the peoples of the union. i would very much like the conclusions of the summit next week to focus on serious security threats. the summit declaration should express support for the deployment of an osce armed police mission to eastern ukraine as well as a commitment to engage in common security and defence policy missions or operations. without outside reinforcements and international controls on the border between russia and ukraine, the conflict will continue.
mr president, i remain convinced that the eastern partnership project makes sense under certain circumstances. however, i think it is absolutely necessary to make a thorough assessment of its successes, which are few, and its failures. of course, we must also consider its further development and direction. the multi-speed project is as unacceptable to me as the idea of a multi-speed europe. it is only a justification for the european union's double-track policy. instead, we must ask our partner countries what they actually expect from the eu and in what areas we can help them. the mindless pouring of money into the budgets of these countries without demonstrably successful reforms in the areas of anti-corruption and justice also lacks meaning. we need to focus more on investing in immediate progress for citizens. it's not about the size of the project, it's about the efficiency. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i remember that when we spoke about this topic at the last plenary session eastern partnership that the commissioner said that this eastern partnership project is not directed against anyone, that is, against russia, but for cooperation with russia. so i can imagine, colleague, that it would be interesting for russia to be able to cooperate in this project.
madam president, we are discussing this report here because the european union rightly refused to grant china market economy status last december, which is our right, we have the right to defend our economy against unfair competition. on the other hand, we also have to say that there are certain risks involved. one risk, of course, is that the european commission reacted too late. it's been almost a year since we've been dealing with this issue, and that's been said here. the second thing, and perhaps even more important, is that we don't know what the outcome of the wto case against the european commission will be, because china has logically, from its point of view, challenged both our decision not to grant it market economy status and our decision on this new calculation methodology. so i, commissioner, of course, do not want you to tell me here whether or not the european commission has a plan b. i believe it does, and i believe that even if we do not do well in the wto, you will be able to continue to protect the interests of the european economy.
madam president, commissioner, i am personally very pleased that agreement has been reached on the new anti-dumping methodology in a relatively short time. moreover, the agreed text reflects the european parliament's main priorities, the effective protection of our companies, the low administrative burden and the compatibility of the new rules with the wto. from the point of view of european companies, it is absolutely crucial that the european union has the tools to effectively protect them against unfair competition from abroad. international trade is changing, with countries such as china becoming increasingly important, and the european union must be prepared to protect its domestic industries in the face of unfair practices from abroad. this new methodology will make that possible. it offers protection in particular in those markets to which products from third countries are being disproportionately priced or oversubsidised. so i welcome this result.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr pong on his excellent report and, like many of my predecessors, i would like to stress that cooperation between the european union and africa is indeed very strategic. the contribution of the africa-eu partnership strategy aims to strengthen, deepen and orient the partnership towards the prosperity and stability of both continents, in line with the commitments under the sustainable development goals, and in particular also taking into account the environmental factor. africa is particularly vulnerable to the impacts of climate change and it is therefore crucial that the eu develops a strategic approach to building resilience to climate change and supports african countries, in particular least developed countries, in their efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and adapt to climate change. at the same time, it is important that our alliance really focuses on youth, on the future, on promoting education, on effectively creating new jobs.
mr president, commissioner, the action plan must have real objectives and must be monitored. however, it is equally important to carry out checks on the practical application of the directives already in place. in december 2016, the evaluation of the effectiveness check of the nature directives concluded that, while they fulfilled their purpose, their application needed to be substantially improved in order to meet the objectives set. the action plan for nature, people and the economy therefore aims to improve the practical application of the nature directives as a matter of urgency. i welcome the commission's efforts to involve the local and regional authorities of the member states, which play a key role in the protection of nature and biodiversity. if we work together successfully at all levels, we can achieve very good results not only in the field of nature conservation. by the way, the question of regional management was raised a moment ago by my colleague lins. i would also like to appreciate that this resolution calls on the commission to present a strategy on the problem of endangered pollinators, in particular bees. their environmental and economic benefits are incalculable and disappearing from our environment. i would also like to support traditional farming practices in the area of pastoralism or an increase in the subsidy under the life programme by 10%, at least 10%. these are the basic requirements that i think should be reflected in the action plan.
madam president, i would like to explain why i supported the amendments to the two regulations on protection against dumped imports and protection against subsidised imports from countries which are not members of the european union. the european union must protect its enterprises against dumped imports, in particular from china. furthermore, the proposed amendments are compatible with the wto rules. the revision of the regulation introduces a neutral methodology with respect to third countries, which allows the commission to proceed to the calculation of input costs on the basis of an international comparison or a comparison basis in an appropriate representative country. the commission will also be able to countervail unlawful subsidies causing demonstrable injury to the industry. that is why i supported both proposals for regulations.
madam president, it is certainly good that the european union is protecting its markets and its economy from unfair competition, in particular from state-owned or part-owned enterprises, but let us be clear that, although this regulation is worth supporting, we are not the winners. we don't know if it's compatible with the wto rules, and china, which is actually doing all this, is quite logically going to challenge these measures at the wto. she thought we didn't recognize her as a market economy last december. now, a year later, when we're trying to solve this with this measure, it's only logical that this measure should come up. i would like to know if we have, if the european commission and the european parliament have any plan b in case we fail at the wto and china succeeds, because that would put us at a very disadvantage. however, i supported this regulation at the time.
madam president, i too have supported the motions for resolutions tabled. in my view, we have a duty to protect our internal market, and above all by means of meaningful and clear rules. we want this for border protection and i think we should of course also require it for internal market protection. quality, meeting all the standards that are important for health protection, for consumer protection, these are all the requirements we have to place on importers who are just entering our internal market. i think we should prevent unfair practices. they are not only in the steel industry, but also in agriculture. they have a very negative effect on the environment. i think we should consider all of this, and that is why i welcomed this proposal which increases the commission's powers, because it also brings the rules together to a certain extent. if we want our farmers, our products, our companies to meet all the standards, then we must demand this without question from those who enter our market from outside.
madam president, i supported the resolution, as our group – the ecr – is committed to the multilateral trade agenda and to a positive outcome in buenos aires. the central role of the wto as the multilateral forum for trade discussions needs strengthening and, where progress is not possible, the wto should not stay stuck on these topics, but instead advance in areas where it can advance and make a difference. this could be e-commerce, investment facilitation or smes. so, again, the work of the wto can strongly contribute to the opening of markets and enhancing global trade. this is work which should be supported, and i was happy to do that.
madam president, i voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation to the council and the commission on the eastern partnership. i consider this question, the question of security, which is also a long-term priority for the foreign policy of the czech republic, absolutely crucial for our future. the eastern partnership project was launched in prague during the czech presidency in 2009. in some of the six countries concerned, there is a gradual deterioration in the security situation, the human rights situation or democratization trends. this does not mean that we should change anything about this project, but we must provide these countries with additional support and encouragement. the report therefore contains a number of recommendations for the council to consider, for example, negotiations on customs union, on schengen. i know it's not realistic in the short term, but we should consider it in the future.
madam president, any statement on the rule of law and the constitutional balance of power in poland will be seen as dishonest, because there is a political opposition in poland. whereas the european union was founded on a deliberate democratic deficit from the beginning. in practice, this means that there must be no alternative to official policy, that elections cannot influence the shape and direction of the european union, that there is no opposition that can take charge tomorrow and make a different policy. and i'll give you a small example from the recent period of political persecution in the european union. a few weeks ago, jean-claude juncker said in this place: 'today the commission is proposing new rules on the funding of political parties and foundations. we should not be filling the coffers of anti-european extremists. he went on to say that only those parties who agree with the commission will receive the money. is this what fair competition between political parties looks like in the european union? no, this is a manifestation of political persecution.
the next item is the topical debate (rule 153a) on the legacy of the 1917 totalitarian bolshevik revolution (2017/2933(rsp)). i would like to add that there will be no catch the eye and no blue cards in this debate, so please take that into account and i will repeat this if necessary.
ms kalniete, thank you very much for these strong words warmly welcomed by colleagues in the plenary.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, huge thanks to the european parliament for arranging this discussion, a very topical one. thanks for the invitation to the presidency to take part in this discussion. let me start by recalling the resolution of the european parliament from 2 april 2009 on european conscience and totalitarianism, which calls for the proclamation of 23 august as a europe—wide day of remembrance for all the victims of all the totalitarian regimes. there is this famous sentence by the philosopher george santayana: ‘those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it’. the topic of today’s discussion incites reflection on how we can learn from history. the 1917 bolshevik revolution was a turning point in the history of a great nation, russia, and it changed the history of the whole continent. historians are still discussing the scale of the impact of the 1917 revolution, and rightly so. we cannot close our eyes, either, to the worrying tendencies still there, one century later, in russia and beyond its borders. the bolshevik programme of peace, land and bread won the party considerable support among hungry urban workers and soldiers. it was effective propaganda. but it brought about destruction, famine and war. as the historian anne applebaum recently put it: ‘it created not a beautiful new civilisation but an angry, unhappy and embittered society, one that squandered its resources, built ugly, inhuman cities, and broke new ground in atrocity and mass murder’. the totalitarian regime and machinery that was built on this ideology also led us to the enforced division of europe for half a century. this we have overcome, fortunately, through the positive, transformative force of european integration. but are we entirely out of the woods? are we safe from foreign interference, from attempts to undermine our achievements? let me also remind you – just as sandra kalniete did just before me – my generation of estonians, latvians, lithuanians, poles, romanians and many other nations spent the first half of their lives under the totalitarian regime that the bolsheviks created and spread throughout the eastern part of the european continent. i was 25 when estonia freed itself from the soviet occupation. for me, the russian revolution is not something from history books, it is something very real. when i look around in today’s europe, i find the real consequences, the real legacy of bolsheviks, more than i like to. in 1967, the year i was born into the orwellian society of the estonian soviet socialist republic, illegally annexed by the soviet union in 1940, the great george f. kennan, in an analysis of the bolshevik revolution half a century on, wrote: ‘the bolshevik leaders brought ... a complex of attitudes toward the western governments... among these attitudes were a fundamental challenge to the legitimacy of the western governments, a pervasive cynicism about the parliamentary and democratic sources of their power, a denial that their peoples owed them loyalty.’ you would have thought that was in the past. however, last week, the russian ambassador to the eu, vladimir chizhov, gave an interview to the baltic rim economies review where he states: ‘in the russian view, the subsequent policies of nato and eu enlargement, export of democracy and erosion of continent-wide arms regimes have put to rest any hopes for a truly inclusive governance of europe.’ the eu’s ‘export of democracy’ – a cold breeze dating back a century – reminds us of anxieties we thought had long ago disappeared. let me now turn to the worrying phenomenon of populism. i am addressing this issue here because in today’s europe, the populists target this union of ours. they try to undermine the achievements of over 60 years of european integration. i am also addressing this issue because populism is at the very roots of bolshevism, from the first works of karl marx, who started this cruel madness. catchy and attractive—sounding, populist propaganda promises oversimplified solutions for complex issues. populists divide our societies into good and bad, us and them. this undermines the democratic and open political debate, while radicalisation and extremism gain ground. europe has already paid a heavy price for creating such dividing lines in the past. the experience of the two world wars taught us not to focus on differences but to create a common space to live, study and work. our nations agreed on common fundamental principles such as democracy, the rule of law and the protection of human rights. our societies are facing different challenges, related for instance to security, defence, migration and so on. populist rhetoric has created deep divisions in our societies on those issues instead of allowing us to work together on common solutions in the eu. populists use information technology to communicate the message even more widely. this has brought along new challenges, such as misinformation on a massive scale, fake news and attempts to influence democratic elections. it is not easy for citizens to discern fake news or to find and access reliable information. these challenges need to be countered on many different levels. i welcome the commission’s plans – as recently announced by first vice—president timmermans at the general affairs council – to carry out preparatory work on the topic of fake news. this is a fundamental issue of partly foreign interference threatening to seriously undermine our democracies. we must not forget the important role of education and youth work either. the first leaders’ meeting under president tusk’s leaders’ agenda on friday in gothenburg focuses precisely on education and culture. we need to develop democratic resilience, media literacy, tolerance, critical thinking and conflict resolution skills. in particular, media literacy has become key to fighting off populist propaganda and manipulation through fake news. in october, the estonian presidency organised the third annual rule of law dialogue in the general affairs council on the topic of media pluralism and the rule of law in the digital age. it was underlined that increased levels of disinformation are another core challenge, including for democracy and the rule of law. this challenge can be counterbalanced by increased levels of media literacy. we need to put more energy and means into strategic communication and make the best use of the methods and tools which have proved efficient both in the eu and within our neighbourhood. for instance, the valuable work and output by the east strategic communication task force in the european external action service shows us how we can improve and magnify our narrative in the eastern neighbourhood. i would like to conclude by stressing how important it is to prevent our citizens from being misled by populists. history shows the impact that propaganda and manipulation can have on our societies. thus it is our common responsibility to preserve the vital values of tolerance, protection, human rights and the rule of law. i hope that today’s discussion on this sad anniversary of the bolshevik revolution will further contribute to keeping and respecting these common values in the future, too.
minister, thank you, and i must say that when you referred to the quote by ambassador vladimir chizhov, having been for years his czech counterpart both in prague and in brussels, i could supplement that with some other freezing quotes.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i could never speak as eloquently about this issue as sandra kalniete and matti maasikas have just done, for the simple reason that i had the good fortune to be born on the right side of the iron curtain, and therefore never had the personal experience of what it means to live in a dictatorship or in a totalitarian state. this does not mean that i do not feel a collective historic responsibility, for all europeans, to make sure that this memory is never lost, that it is part of our educational system in a way, and that our children don’t forget, so that they do not repeat the mistakes of the past. i am certainly not claiming this as a commission responsibility or a european responsibility, but i do call on national authorities to make sure that the totalitarian past, which is an integral part of all our histories, is never forgotten so that the experience should never be repeated. the 1917 revolutions in russia were a turning point of twentieth century history and politics. it was the beginning of a wave of totalitarian regimes, in which the ideology dictated that the individual was not relevant; that the only thing that mattered was the ideology and the goals that the state dictated through people who thought that individual rights and democracy had no part in their society. as this regime, the bolshevik regime, took over in the october revolution, it sought legitimisation through the hunting down of enemies. there were incredible numbers of individual victims of the political terror, especially in the elite of the country, whose experience looms large in our history writing. but terror, to be effective, needs to be indiscriminate. terror only works if innocent people are victims of it, because it makes everybody scared, and in absolute numbers it was the ordinary people who suffered most. i think because it was not mentioned before today, i want to mention that we should maintain a special place in our collective memory for the many millions who perished in the holodomor in ukraine. the people of the soviet union made sacrifices on a scale which numbs the mind in helping to defeat the nazi regime, but the end of the second world war did not alter the baleful nature of the stalinist dictatorship. furthermore, the soviet occupation of the baltic states and the puppet regimes put in place in central europe left our continent divided, leaving people to the east with effectively closed borders yearning for political and personal freedoms and missing out on the prosperity that took off in our part of europe. the events of 1989 – to which i am proud to say i have been witness to throughout my career – were for most people a matter of joy, as country after country was able to throw off the totalitarian regimes imposed upon them, and then, in the eu enlargements in 2004 and since, to mend the terrible fracture in our continent. there is no more important event in 70 years of european integration than that wonderful event in 2004 when europe became whole again. ‘now grows together what belongs together’ should be a leading motto in our european union. while the wounds are deep and countries are still coming to terms with their history, the transformational power of the people to turn their countries into social market democracies where freedom reigns is a miracle. those of us who witnessed the states of central and eastern europe at the end of the 1980s and who go back now see a miracle; with all the shortcomings we still have, it is a miracle. that is why i agree so wholeheartedly with president juncker when he said, in the state of the union address, that europe must breathe with both its lungs, east and west. that is why i never hesitate to repeat the wonderful words expressed by václav havel at a conference i attended in prague, when he said: ‘our goal is to make sure that east and west regain just geographical meaning, not moral meaning, not economic meaning, only geographical meaning’. that should always be our goal, especially to honour the memory of people like václav havel. our union is based on the tripod of democracy, human rights and the rule of law. through european history, we know that if we abandon one of the legs of the tripod, the whole tripod will topple and we will not be able to maintain these rights. it is also important that europe marks the 23 august, the anniversary of nazi germany and the soviet union signing the molotov-ribbentrop pact, to remember all the victims of the totalitarian authoritarian regimes that have scarred europe during the 20th century. yes, they went at each other at some point, but stalin would have preferred to maintain a strategic alliance with this other mass murderer called adolf hitler. the europe-wide day of remembrance for the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes keeps alive the memory of the victims and pays tribute to them. commemoration also helps us to recall lessons learnt from this dark chapter in european history. the spanish writer jorge semprún said that european integration was born in buchenwald. the eu is based on the idea that you link your destiny to your neighbours’ destiny. that is a clean break with a totalitarian vision of exactly 100 years ago in the bolshevik revolution. the concept fostered in the bolshevik revolution, in the fascist regime in italy, in the nazi regime in germany, and in the subsequent fascist regimes in other european countries, was always that the individual does not count – it is only our goals that count, and if individuals die because of that, tough luck. this is something we as europeans of today can never, ever accept. we should never take our freedoms for granted. nothing is irreversible, as the volatile politics of our continent show. democracy and freedom need maintenance. ideology that allows you to murder your neighbour is still rampant in europe. look at the fundamentalist jihadists who have exactly the same vision of being allowed to kill other human beings because they do not share your ideology: exactly what the stalinists and the nazis did. it is perhaps not surprising, but it is dispiriting, that the current government of russia, which incidentally seems very ambivalent in its own attitude to the bolshevik revolution, is devoting so much effort and so many resources into misinformation aimed at our societies and other democracies. it is a matter of great concern that apparently it is seeking to divide us and rule us by teaming up with the present forces of illiberalism, nationalism and xenophobia, and inflaming hatred and instilling doubt about our hard-fought democratic values. i would say, let us not fall for the temptation of the strong man. i do not understand why this is again so tempting to many of our co-citizens. let us never give in to these dark forces. let us not fall for the demons of extreme nationalism which, like alcoholism, offer short-term exaltation, but long-lasting headaches, deep disruption, poverty and despair. europe is ultimately an idea and a promise that it is possible to overcome age-old antagonisms and live together, trade together and work together in freedom and peace. markets and currency are important instruments, but not our end goals. on this, the 100th anniversary of the october revolution, it is good to recall the lessons of the past. domination of one another is not the answer. europe grows out of a free and democratic choice to join a union and pool one sovereignty so that the whole is greater than the sum of all its parts. looking back on our history, we can only conclude that we are lucky to be alive today, and so we must cherish the open, prosperous, diverse and peaceful societies we have built where individual freedoms are not sacrificed on the altar of so-called collective interests based on a totalitarian ideologies. but we must never take this for granted, nor the fundamental values that our european house is based on. we then must consequently show the same energy, passion and determination to defend what europe is, to defend who we really are and to understand that collective prosperity is impossible without individual liberty.
ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the debate. i need to underline that we have a very extensive list of speakers and i will be very strict in terms of respecting the speaking time. so on the second signal i will just have to take the floor from any who exceed their speaking time.
i am sorry, colleague, but i announced at the very beginning that this debate is without blue cards and without catch-the-eye. my apologies, but this is the case.
colleagues, this is a serious issue, and i think the debate so far confirms the deep pain that many nations in europe have suffered. i would ask you for one minute’s silence in memory of the victims. (the house rose and observed a minute’s silence)
mr sylikiotis, please respect the time slot you have received and also show respect to your colleagues. i let you speak even though your speech is considered by the chair as unfortunate and… in line with history. you had the opportunity to speak. mr sylikiotis, respect the chair. you had your time to speak. (interjection from mr sylikiotis)mr sylikiotis, do not push me into taking measures. (interjection from the floor)colleague, you are not here to debate with other colleagues. you asked for a point of order. under which rule do you wish to speak?
mr president, commissioner, i would like this debate to be a memento memento of events which have irrevocably marked europe's history, including that of my country, the czech republic, in a negative way. what happened in russia a century ago is still viewed by many today as a social revolution. the fact is that the bolshevik coup led to a brutal totalitarianism that took the lives of tens of millions of people in the soviet union alone. the memory and courage of those who fought their personal struggle against the communist regime should be especially appreciated today. unfortunately, there are still regimes in the world that persecute, imprison and execute their opponents under the guise of ideology. let us therefore dedicate this debate to those who, like us, have been fighting for their freedom and the recognition of their rights for years. let the fall of the iron curtain be an inspiration in this fight.
mr. chairman, the bolshevik revolution in st. petersburg in october of 1917 was undoubtedly a historic milestone in the history of modern russia and perhaps the world. it's a historical event that needs to be talked about. even in russia itself, opinions on it are as divided as society. it is certain that the revolution has achieved successes, eradicated illiteracy, raised the living standards of a part of the population. (the chairman interrupted the speaker because of a problem with the interpretation.) in an extremely short time, there was a record wave of industrialization, in just 10 years, although i admit, at a great human cost. nor can we forget the heroism of the red army soldiers in the fight against hitler. every political ideology carries the same painful cross in the form of human sacrifice. i hope we can all agree that it is for historians, not meps, to pass judgments on historical events.
mr korwin- mikke, you have run out of time. may i ask you, for now and for any time in the future, not to offend your colleagues.
mr. chairman, last week, november 7th, marked 100 years since the bolshevik coup in russia, euphemistically called the great october socialist revolution. in those days, we also commemorated the communist coup in brussels. a qualified conference was held at the house of european history. the panelists mentioned the crimes of communism in the world. the death toll of the communists was also revealed: over 90 million victims. now, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to address the communists who sit in this hall with us today. it's mainly about the portuguese communists. dear bolsheviks of europe, last week you held an exhibition on the grounds of the european parliament to celebrate the centenary of the communist coup. the panels in your exhibition were pure worship of communist symbols and communist violence. and i ask you, are you not ashamed to celebrate the death of 90 million people? now i turn again to you, fellow democrats. communists are coming back to power in a number of former soviet bloc countries. they are abusing democracy, pushing former nomenclature members into high positions and becoming a major security risk for the eu. the time has come for a europe-wide ban on communist symbols. democracy must be defended.
mr. chairman, the reason we're commemorating the 100th anniversary is so we don't forget what communist terror was. and it's obvious that it's necessary because some people have forgotten that there are 94 million dead after this terror. the far right even dares to compare the european union to the soviet union. perhaps because these deputies have never lived in a communist society. the extreme left, on the other hand, is calling again for a communist revolution and for the welfare of communism. because these mps have never lived under socialism and communist dictatorship. ladies and gentlemen, this is possible because, unfortunately, these crimes have not been punished. because communism, like nazism, was not defeated in war, and there was no nuremberg tribunal. in this context, it is scandalous that the celebration of the october revolution could be held here in the european parliament as an exhibition. ladies and gentlemen, today, when we were discussing the situation in poland, i was sad. democrats, let's not get divided. let us not fall prey to the wave of populism and the division of democratic forces in the european union. it would be very sad.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i am glad that the commission is delivering a second package which fits very well with the first package. i am also glad that the commissioner is presenting it under the energy union umbrella and that there is an integrated approach as concerns both sectors. but let me go a little bit further. what we really need in the european union is a change of mind-set. if we manage to change the mind-set, we will be in a better position to tackle what i see as a weakness in the european union, and that is the complete ecosystem: it is transport, it is energy, it is industry, it is consumption but it is also research, it is a question of where we really focus and we put the utmost effort in the financial means that we can deliver. already california has been mentioned today, china has been mentioned, and the fact is that we are not necessarily well placed today to be the leaders. we are still well placed to be highly competitive in the future if we get the ecosystem right. we need to do it on the european level, we need to do it on the national level. i would hardly find a single policy on the european or national level which would not be affected if we are to meet the objectives that we are setting in this package. i very much encourage you to pursue that direction. having said that, the package is one that we have to appreciate, it is well balanced. there are a number of issues that will require clarification, fine tuning, maybe higher ambition, but i would like to say that if we look at the package purely through the optic of emission targets, then we will be failing. it has to be a very complex policy approach, getting the right balance but also getting the right ambition. and that is my final remark: why are the americans, at least in silicon valley, and the chinese, successful? because they do not update or upgrade by 10% or 20%, they want a real change, they want a revolution. this is not about the limits – this is about the complex approach that i have mentioned.
mr president, i am convinced that both mobility packages represent a major challenge for the eu. we now have the opportunity and, in my view, the duty to ensure the strongest possible rights for workers and for all citizens, sustainable transport and the best possible road safety. we can of course take these issues ideologically, but i am of the opinion that the implementation of these points is primarily in line with the workload of the only directly elected institution of the european union, the european parliament. it is therefore highly desirable that the european parliament's position be as progressive as possible and aim for a future in which the interests of citizens and the planet are not secondary. we are dealing with complex problems, but if left unaddressed, they can have disastrous consequences. we can do a lot to improve the quality of life, and i hope we don't let that opportunity slip away. what the commission has presented is a start. we have to do better.
mr president, the constant growth of transport in europe is a reality and we can expect this trend to intensify. economic growth will only increase the need for transport capacity, both in the freight and passenger transport sectors. of course, it is important to minimize negative environmental impacts. the big challenge is the huge growth of digital technologies for use in transport. automated systems offer amazing ways to optimize the management of individual vehicles. but we should not give too much preference to one direction in terms of transport promotion, as is the case with the preference for electric cars. already, the complications of having enough electricity capacity in one area with the massive increase in electric cars are showing up, but also other aspects. whether it's the current technological barriers of existing battery systems, their recycling, uncompetitive prices and so on. it is certainly very important to promote research in this area and across the whole transport spectrum. maintaining a degree of technological neutrality is essential because the winner of the future battle, whether it be electric vehicles or hydrogen propulsion or other, currently unknown, propulsion units, will be decisively determined by a tough economy and competitive environment.
madam president, commissioner, i appreciate the ambition of your proposal. we know, of course, that the automotive sector employs 12 million europeans and is therefore the main driver of emissions of greenhouse gases in the european union. so it's also the potential where emissions can be reduced. already the automotive industry is actually following this trend. it both reduces emissions and also phases out the combustion engines. this is of course not just the case for the european union and its institutions, but also for car manufacturers themselves. however, i think the proposal for binding limits is perhaps too ambitious. cutting co2 emissions by 30% in nine years is not going to be easy. however, i appreciate the flexibility you have left for both producers and member states to decide. thank you and good luck.
madam president, i welcome the review of the european union's environmental legislation as a necessary tool. i particularly welcome the call for a joint council meeting to discuss new problems with possible crossborder implications. that's the problem that should be addressed first. but not just in terms of new problems, but also in terms of existing problems. there are simply regions in the eu where, either because of poor implementation of european legislation or ignorance of it, very strong local friction is created between member states, especially when it comes to emissions. this problem has been ignored for a long time in the european institutions, and i would be delighted if we could finally start to tackle this problem. however, i do not agree with the claim that deficiencies in administrative capacity and public administration are the main causes of poor implementation. we're constantly adding to the administrative burden. look at the administrative decimation of the member states in the latest climate package. i'd rather not talk about the winter energy package. let's think about it.
madam president, i agree with the focus of this report on finding the right direction to take in the fight against inequality. it is based on the assumption that greater economic equality within a society leads to greater growth and also to job creation. of course, i think it is important to focus on investing in education as well as in social innovation, in quality services and also in supporting entrepreneurship. we should not forget that. the idea of a universal minimum income is worth considering, but it should remain entirely within the competence of the member states and cannot be introduced from the european union level, for example by way of a directive. i also cannot support the proposal to introduce european unemployment insurance as an extension of national schemes. again, this is a member state-only issue. i also regret that i cannot agree to the introduction of a european child guarantee, the so-called youth child guarantee, because we cannot promise that we will be able to ensure the same standards for every child in every member state here at european level. but we must support the member states in ensuring that they can provide the conditions for quality education and employment. that is the task of the european union.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, new zealand is seen by many people in europe as a fairy-tale country on the other side of the world. the relatively sparse population, large areas of natural beauty, and the location of one of the last outposts on the way to antarctica and the south pacific make this country a potential paradise for tourists and explorers. it is interesting that in january 2017, immediately after the start of the brexit negotiations, the prime minister of this country made his first foreign trip to the european parliament, london and berlin. he made it clear that, in addition to its traditional relationship with london, the country was interested in a special relationship with the european union. it should be noted that the author of the report confuses the european union and europe. which is not surprising for british mp tannock. the negotiations with new zealand on a free trade agreement will certainly be sensitive and sensitive, particularly in the area of agricultural products. it will be interesting for eu countries to take advantage of new zealand's experience in protecting the environment and stabilising electricity supply, with more than 80% of production coming from renewable sources. we don't know that in the european union yet. the country's involvement in the international fund for ireland is interesting. this fund shall support the economic and social development of the green island and contribute to dialogue and reconciliation between communities. by the way, the irish question is one of the first points of commissioner barnier's talks with the british government.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, according to the reporters without borders world press freedom index, sudan is ranked 174th out of 180 countries that have been evaluated. government authorities in sudan routinely detain and charge journalists and confiscate the editions of various periodicals. in 2016, there were a total of 44 such cases involving 12 different newspapers. muhammad zain al-abidin has criticized the alleged corruption in the family of sudanese president al-bashir, as has been stated here several times. he was given a five-year suspended sentence and appealed the verdict. his case is just one of many cases of violations of fundamental rights and freedoms in sudan. we know that freedom of the press and freedom of expression are fundamental to the emergence and development of a free society. we should, like the european union, strongly condemn the persecution of journalists and severely sanction those who initiate it. on the contrary, we must provide all possible support to those who are fighting for the survival of an independent press in sudan. in the case of muhammad zayn al-abidin, we must demand a fair trial.
mr president, the european parliament has a duty to defend those who are unjustly persecuted, we have a duty to support freedom of the media. we don't even have to walk that far. governments that have a problem of their own and are afraid of freedom of speech are the first to interfere with freedom of the press and journalists. let's look at malta, turkey, russia. and sudan has economic problems, but also political problems, so the government persecutes opponents and citizens who fight for a free sudan. parliament recently supported petr jašek and his colleagues who, as humanitarian workers, supported those who were unjustly persecuted. and now let us also support muhammad zainab al-abidin and other journalists who are helping sudan seek the truth. at the very least, their bravery deserves our full support.
madam president, commissioner, the 358 victims of the terrible terrorist attack in mogadishu on 14 october this year will be best honoured by our continued efforts to rebuild a functioning somali state. the commission deserves our thanks for its swift response and assistance in providing medical care to the victims of this assassination. according to transparency international, somalia is the most corrupt country in the world. the consequences of this corruption are clear. in somalia, 400,000 children are malnourished. three million somalis are on the brink of starvation. the threat of a national famine cannot yet be ruled out. of course, terrorists benefit from such a broken society. the fight against terrorism in somalia begins with providing basic necessities for the people of somalia. the european union must continue to provide this humanitarian aid. it should also mobilise the entire international community, in particular neighbouring and other states in the region, to contribute, each according to its own capabilities, to the end of somalia in territories controlled by more terrorists than the somali government.
madam president, the situation in somalia has been complex and bleak for a long time. an internally divided country has fallen victim to the rise of religious extremism and related violence. terrorist attacks in the area are unfortunately very common and are also related to acts of revenge. similarly, last month a somali soldier blew up a truck loaded with several hundred kilograms of explosives in the capital, killing over 350 people. this cowardly act was a response to another, equally cowardly act that occurred in august. seven unarmed farmers and three children were killed by government and us troops in the south of the country. i would therefore appeal that our condemnation of these heinous acts not be guided by the flag under which they were committed. in matters of defending the innocent, we must not look to those we consider our allies, but measure them all with the same yardstick.
the author. madam president, many people in 2013 were saying that madagascar was moving in the right direction, but that there was still room for improvement. but they were wrong. this improvement has proved to be only temporary. the current government should respect the rule of law and let the judiciary decide corruption and human rights cases. it is necessary to respect fundamental freedoms, including the most important one, freedom of expression. i hope that next year's elections will be democratic and transparent and that the european union will contribute to the respect of all rights. but this is not just a problem in madagascar, it's a problem in most african countries. the situation in madagascar is just the tip of the iceberg. human rights abuses are happening all across africa. again, research by organizations like human rights watch and amnesty international shows that restrictions on free speech, political opposition, gender and racial discrimination, child labor, forced marriage, religious intolerance, corruption, and even slavery are commonplace. oftentimes, the situation goes so far that people are arrested, bullied, or even killed, quite illegitimately, and often because of poor money or natural resources, as in madagascar. additionally, radical islam is spreading in africa, increasingly subverting the thinking of the people. there is a huge scope for improvement in human rights in africa, but we must help, as the european union is doing in madagascar. e european union is the guarantor and protector of democratic values and fundamental human rights and freedoms, but it must play an active role in stabilising the situation and contribute through its diplomats to the establishment of the rule of law and respect for human rights. the african union's partnership in economic cooperation is important, but it should not be forgotten that our priority is to prevent conflicts and contribute to their resolution, so that the situation does not get worse. there is a need to engage in a human rights dialogue with african countries under the european union's mandate and to promote a strong commitment to the protection of human rights, democracy and the rule of law worldwide.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, it is unfortunate that we are having to discuss madagascar today. after the last elections we were all hopeful that the situation would improve, but this is not happening. madagascar is truly in a dire state. while the outbreak of the plague has recently been dominating the headlines, there are many other serious issues threatening the well—being of its citizens and undermining their human rights. the reports of the government arbitrarily detaining human rights defenders, journalists and activists, and the cases of extrajudicial killing, are alarming and disturbing. this needs to end. as madagascar enters a new election year, the eu should be more actively engaging in helping the country to strengthen democracy and the rule of law and should provide as much technical assistance as necessary to this end.
madam president, 92% of the population of madagascar lives on less than $2 a day. madagascar is thus the poorest country in the world, but fortunately, there is no armed conflict. unfortunately, it is also an example of a country whose political instability is worsening the living conditions of its population, and this worsening the political stability. the weak rule of law or restrictions on freedom of speech allow organized crime to illegally exploit and damage madagascar's unique nature. the destruction of nature makes it difficult to establish sustainable development in the local community and leads to consequences such as the ongoing plague epidemic with 127 dead already. the world health organization sees a clear link between the overall poor social and political situation and the deterioration of health services, which has so far led to 1,800 cases of plague. we therefore call on the government of madagascar to guarantee respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, to ensure that democratic elections are held in 2018, and to create space for a solution through dialogue and cooperation. if madagascar does so, it can count on the help of the european union.
madam president, i have of course supported this report and i can only express my delight that the european parliament, after a break, is now devoting itself to developing relations with the pacific region, not only with new zealand but also with australia. after all, we gave a mandate here last week to negotiate a free trade agreement with both australia and new zealand, and today's vote on the partnership and cooperation agreement and relations with new zealand is a very appropriate prelude to that, so it's good that the european union is opening up a partnership window of trade routes to this region, and i think there has been and there will be a very broad consensus here that this is a good thing, that it's good for our national economies, and that we should continue to do this. let's certainly support it.
madam president, i too support the partnership and relations agreement between the european union and new zealand. this is a promising step in gaining an important trading and strategic partner and ally in the asia-pacific region. since deepening relations with new zealand, i personally pledge to support sustainable investment and growth, the creation of new jobs on both sides, as well as new business opportunities for private entities. and among others, cooperation in many areas: from innovation, science to migration, terrorism, the fight against organised crime, cybercrime and judicial cooperation. in my view, new zealand is an important player in the european union's trade strategy in this area and deeper and more balanced effective cooperation will help mutual satisfaction and a stable democracy.
madam president, if we want to help europe, we have to help africa. that must be our strategy for the months and years ahead. i therefore supported the report, which contains a number of concrete recommendations for the upcoming eu-africa summit. in the last 30 years, africa's population has doubled from 600 million to 1.2 billion, and it's going to keep growing. of course, as the population grows, so will the pressure to migrate. the european union is the largest provider of development aid. but we must also link economic aid with values, notably the protection of human rights, the dignity of life and the rule of law. in addition to armed conflict, political oppression, and poor economic conditions, climate change is also a cause of migration. we need conditions in africa to improve, and people to have a decent living and a motivation to grow. let me conclude with a reminder of the words of pope francis. behind every number, we have to see people, a specific person, and that has to be our human strategy.
madam president, the partnership with africa must reflect new priorities that mirror the political and economic developments on both continents. the partnership has several priority areas: from economic cooperation to migration and the environment. i would like to highlight two areas which i consider to be the most important in the strategy. first, it's about respect for human rights, which are so violated on the african continent, and security across the continent. in the light of recent events in madagascar and other african countries, i would like to call for the active participation of the european union in the respect for human rights across africa. that's why i supported it.
madam president, i would like to begin by highlighting the work of the european ombudsman, who is one of the independent inspectors of the proper functioning of the european union. in the name of transparency, democracy and openness, the european union is an important office that helps individuals protect their rights. it is clear that this institution makes sense and does its job well, as almost 16 000 people turned to the office for help in 2016. yes, i'm not wrong. however, i must point out that of this number, only less than 2 000 were considered as complaints falling within the competence of the european ombudsman. it is therefore necessary to further clarify the competence of the european ombudsman and thus raise public awareness. i think it would be appropriate to promote awareness of the ombudsman's office and to support the ombudsman's work itself.
representing the author. mr president, commissioner, i have the honour to put to the commission, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, an oral question on the european union-china tourism year for 2018. i was the initiator of this question and i am glad that it was supported by all the factions in our committee. we share a common concern. the commission and its president, mr juncker, decided in 2016 to make 2018 the year of eu-china tourism, in consultation with the chinese premier, mr li keqiang. they did so without consulting the european parliament. we have not had the opportunity to learn the contents and terms of this project. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. we have serious reasons and expectations. the european union is experiencing a period of rising populism, radicalism and fragmentation. that's why we want to go back to the roots of european civilization. we want to remind the younger generation in particular that we are living in a historically unprecedented period of peace, freedom and prosperity. all of this was bought with millions of human sacrifices. that's why we can safely enjoy the cultural wealth that has always bound us together. the european year of cultural heritage therefore aims above all to promote european values and to strengthen our sense of belonging together. we therefore rightly ask what is the objective of the eu-china tourism year? our questions are: 1.can the commission explain why it is so important for europe that the eu-china year of tourism coincides with the european year of cultural heritage? the second. how will the commission manage both initiatives simultaneously? the third. how does the commission intend to create synergies between the two activities? 4. to how does the commission intend to ensure sufficient visibility of both activities? these questions make it clear what we're after. it is simply not clear to us how both events will be managed and promoted in such a way that the european year of cultural heritage in particular is not undermined. in our view, these are rather disparate and competing activities. we wonder why the commission has decided to diversify the cultural initiatives in this way. the commission is welcoming china in the year of tourism, an area which is developing very strongly even without public support. the commission is planning to spend eur 8 million on a common promotion platform. we're wondering if that's the final number or if she's promised any more funding. travel between the member states and china is developing very rapidly and does not need to be supported at european level, especially not financially. even without this support, almost 11 million chinese tourists visited the european union last year. i ask myself: how can we promote european values if we cooperate with china at the same time without any human rights conditions? i would remind you that there are still almost 1 500 political prisoners in china and that the human and social rights of tens of millions of people are being massively violated. in the context of our debate on the persecution of christians on monday, i would like to add that if the chinese want to visit christian sites in europe as tourists, they must stop persecuting christians and other religious minorities in their own country. this should be the commission's starting point for similar initiatives in relation to china. from a technical point of view, the question arises whether mass tourism is particularly beneficial for the preservation of cultural monuments. i'd have my doubts about that. this is true of many places in europe that are facing overcrowding from tourist inflows, but it is also true of tibet under chinese rule, for example, where mass tourism from the west, supported by the chinese, has a rather destructive effect on the local culture. i have tried to outline the main issues that concern us in this context and i hope that the commission will respond to them. our committee will of course be assisting in finding a positive solution. and finally, a plea. please don't assume we're against cooperation. no, i'm not sure. but we want to make it clear that the values of human rights and freedoms are part of our european policy and are not for sale. thank you for your attention and i look forward to your answer, commissioner.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to pass on to you my colleague, mr sógor’s, apologies. he had to leave earlier on because of the strike in france. i will now read his statement. i think that at least once or twice in our lives many of us have already been confronted with the question of whether travelling to a country where human rights are violated is ethical or not. i believe that, as in most issues, it is the scale and the severity of the violation that matters. even though many countries across the globe are far from perfect in this regard, china still stands out, but even in china there are regions that stand out. let us take the case of tibet, which is at the rock—bottom of the freedom ranking list of freedom house, a place where civil and political rights are non-existent. now let us suppose that tibet for a while is not closed to foreign tourists, let us suppose that with your passport – something that most tibetans are not allowed to have – you can visit the region. let us suppose that, as a foreigner, you can get past through police road checks and you can enter lhasa, a city which ordinary tibetans from outside the city are restricted to access. you would find yourself in a place where draconian surveillance measures are implemented to enforce the so-called ‘stability’ of the region; where detentions, prosecutions and convictions of tibetans for the peaceful exercise of their freedoms of expression, assembly and religious belief are carried out in alarming numbers; where many tibetans set themselves on fire because they are denied their basic fundamental rights; or where state policies encourage migration from other parts of china in order to reduce the ethnic tibetan share of the population. in the light of this, i firmly believe that the conclusion of a tourism agreement with china, without a single human rights reference, is not ethical, nor is it in line with our universal and foreign policy values.
the question posed by the blue card. madam member, i quote your speech and the emphasis on human rights, but i would like to ask you a very pragmatic question and without any irony or sarcasm. i'd like to ask you, how would you handle this situation? how would you handle relations with china today, what would you prefer? do you think we should rethink our economic relationship with china? how should we approach this year?
the question posed by the blue card. thank you for accepting a question. i pointed out that 11 million chinese tourists came to europe last year, 2016. you think that's not enough? do you think we need to make a big european promotion of this? nobody wants to stop agencies from promoting tourism, from driving tourists. we certainly do not want to prevent this, but if europe is supporting something, then it should also be linked to the promotion of its european values.
mr president, i certainly welcome this initiative for a number of reasons. it is important that there should be not only economic but also cultural exchanges between the european union and china. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a disaster. universities, as representatives of the private sector, can also bring together people who will work here in the future. at the same time, it will improve the experience and qualifications of people working in the tourism sector. whether we like it or not, china is and will continue to be an important strategic partner of the european union, and it is important to remember that this initiative is also very important for the european union in understanding how the chinese market will behave in the future. and i certainly do not diminish the european union's emphasis on the various rights of chinese citizens, and i do not think that this in any way undermines the call for the people's republic of china to respect the human rights of all chinese citizens.
there are very complex discussions currently taking place on the individual parts of the energy package. it is very difficult to find a common compromise in these discussions, because the aim is to push the most ambitious ambitions beyond the commission's proposal and the member states' positions. the energy package is becoming more of a tool to support the conclusions of the paris agreement. the energy package becomes the climate package. it also extends into areas that often have no direct impact on energy. i see the course of the next trial as somewhat problematic. i believe that the debate on the future of european energy is important and essential. a well-designed energy strategy will determine the future competitiveness of the member states and the eu as a whole. the second thing is that if we override the setting of mandatory parameters for efficiency, renewable resources and the like, we can do very serious damage to the economies of the member states. at the same time, the over-ambitious effort to reduce co2 emissions will achieve the opposite, because some modernization projects may not be realized, because their economy simply will not work and the old technologies will continue. i therefore believe that it is wise to encourage research and new technologies as much as possible rather than to pursue the path of hard restrictions and overly ambitious binding targets.
thank you for your report on the state of the energy union. however, you can understand that i'm not very happy with the result. at present, we have almost completed the reform of both the ets and the esf. the committee has already voted on a large part of the winter package, which at first glance may seem like a good situation. what is sad about it, however, are the errors and omissions that the commission has left in the documents and which will only become apparent later. the whole concept is currently on its feet and not satisfactorily interconnected with previous energy packages. my group has already emphasised on several occasions, for example, the incompatibility of the ets with the energy efficiency directive, where there is a clear overlap, i.e. the influence of energy efficiency on the ets. the commission has not yet clearly defined which decarbonisation tool is the main one for the union. the commission has therefore created a kind of discordant potato chip where one instrument interferes with the other, which is blatantly ignored in the commission's deliberations. since i really respect you, commissioner, i hope you'll do something about this situation while there's still time, because these documents won't stay open forever.
i think the transition to a low-carbon society is becoming more and more a reality in the eu. the itre committee voted yesterday on the very ambitious energy efficiency directive and the renewable energy directive, which are both crucial to the completion of the energy union. i think it is crucial that we also celebrate the ambitious position of the committee in the vote in plenary with a more convincing result, so that we have a bigger and stronger negotiating position with the council. without a significant increase in the pressure for ambition, we would not be able to deliver on commissioner sefcovic's words that in 2019 the energy union will no longer be just a political vision, but a reality. i would like to recall that the strengthening of the powers and the financial strengthening of acer must also play a role in this respect. in conclusion, i would like to commend the commission for being much more active lately in tackling energy poverty at both eu and member state level. for us as social democrats, this is one of the key objectives of the energy union.
the eu's priority in the energy union must be to ensure a reliable supply of energy to all its citizens. energy reliability and availability must be taken for granted. a number of speakers highlighted the eu's role as a leader in the transition to renewable energy and stressed the importance of combating climate change. however, i would like to ask the commission how it will react to the us government's declared intention to withdraw from the paris agreement on climate change. it is certainly commendable that the eu is committing to reducing emissions, setting other, perhaps even unrealistic, targets, but unless the us joins as the biggest polluter, i strongly doubt the effectiveness of our efforts. because we only have one planet, and mr. trump should realize that.
i call on the european commission to respond quickly and effectively. i want to express my support for greece and also to help the affected region. i believe that swift, solidarity-based aid is the best response to the spread of euroscepticism and mistrust. no country in europe is immune to catastrophes. the czech republic also experienced catastrophic flooding in 1997, when 49 people died. in 2002, 17 people died, and it was also important for us at that time, even though we were not yet members of the eu, to know that we were not alone, and even then we could already draw on the solidarity fund to rebuild the infrastructure. but national governments must also work effectively and build preventive flood measures. we must do everything within our power to prevent loss and destruction today, but we must also think about the future.
in writing. the instrument contributing to stability and peace (icsp) has been in operation since 2014 and since then we have a lot of information that this instrument really helps to solve problems in places of conflict. icsp is used as a solution in emergency situations where other programmes are not immediately able to provide financial assistance. the budget for 2014-2020 is around eur 2,3 billion and more than 70% of the resources are for short-term assistance, which is limited to 18 months with a possible extension of another 18 months. the facility provides grants to 281 projects in 70 countries worldwide, making it one of the key instruments of eu external assistance to support prevention and response projects for real or emerging crises worldwide. i can give as an example projects dealing with the refugee crisis. i was in turkey recently, in an area where syrian refugees are being integrated. i have to say that this effort is working and i am glad that the eu is contributing to this through this instrument, the icsp. the amendment we are now approving makes a very substantial change - the possibility of financing the security apparatus in third countries. given the security threats we face not only in the eu's neighbourhood, this is more than desirable.
in writing. in a joint motion for a resolution across the political groups, we express our concern at the fact that a political solution acceptable to all parties to the conflict has not yet been found. we stress that the only acceptable solution must be a peaceful one, found under the auspices of the un. since march 2015, the conflict has killed more than 8,000 people and injured 50,000 others. according to the un office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs, an alarming 20.7 million people are in need of aid, mainly food. we therefore call on all parties to the conflict to bring it to an immediate and peaceful end.
i'd like to speak today about the issue of privacy, privacy, and how it's important to the public. it is important that the ep, together with the council, adopted the data protection regulation, of course, because many people are concerned about the way their personal data is handled. the regulation, which will come into force in may, is also partially problematic, at least in some aspects affecting public administration. it says that each municipality is supposed to protect personal data, but it doesn't distinguish how big the municipalities are. there are municipalities in the czech republic, even very small ones, which are not at all european in scale, they are municipalities that often have only 250 inhabitants. there are 2000 such municipalities in the czech republic. i think that imposing the same level of burden on such a small community is not in line with the principles of flexibility and subsidiarity. i would therefore very much like to see us focusing in the coming years on assessing the impact of this regulation, because as much as it has positive effects, it has negative effects on municipalities and cities of different sizes, particularly across europe.
the next item is the report by gunnar hökmark, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on ranking of unsecured debt instruments in insolvency hierarchy (com(2016)0853 – c8-0479/2016 – 2016/0363(cod)) (a8-0302/2017).
mr coburn, thank you. may i say that the cough does you good because your voice was even louder than usual.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. (the sitting was suspended at 9.38) written statements (rule 162)
i am aware of this and the fact that we are sitting here does not mean that we are not trying to take the necessary steps. as i have said, i apologise, but i do not have any means other than making phone calls, and this is what we have been doing. i can see that the commissioner is with us and the rapporteur is on her way. we can proceed even without the rapporteur, and we will come back to her. commissioner, i would appreciate it if we could start. the rapporteur is on her way, but i think that we should keep more or less to the timetable. i hereby resume the sitting.
the next item is the report by ms stevens, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on implementation of the european disability strategy (2017/2127(ini)) (a8-0339/2017).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, this commission has put inclusive growth and social fairness at the core of its agenda. we are working hard to make sure that no one is left behind. people with disabilities face a much higher risk of social exclusion than the greater population. across the european union, the employment rate for people with a disability is around 48%, only 27.8% have completed tertiary education, and one in three people with a disability is at risk of poverty. this is a situation we cannot accept; the gaps are too big. on 17 november, the commission, the parliament and the council proclaimed the european pillar of social rights. it represents a powerful joint commitment to everyone’s rights, including people with disability, to equal treatment and opportunities. the pillar highlights the right to income support, which ensures that people can live in dignity, to services that enable people to participate in the labour market and in society, and to a work environment that is adapted to people’s needs. the pillar will also contribute to the implementation of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. our work-life balance package is a concrete example. it will help informal carers, often women, to better balance professional and care responsibilities. the european commission remains firmly committed to the un convention and to its human rights approach to disability. in february 2017, the commission published a detailed progress report under the european disability strategy 2010-2020, assessing progress in its eight areas up to 2016. i am very grateful – and glad, of course – to the parliament for coordinating such a comprehensive resolution in response to it, and i want to congratulate, in particular, the rapporteur, ms stevens. while our progress report confirms many of your concerns with regard to the situation of people with disabilities in the european union, it has also shown areas where european action has made a difference. promoting accessibility in all policy areas is certainly one of them. we can be proud of our achievements with the web accessability directive, with the marrakech treaty and in the field of transport and telecoms. we must now see that these instruments are fully implemented. after two years, it is now high time to take another leap forward with the adoption of my proposal for a european accessibility act. parliament has already adopted its mandate, and i remain confident the council will also reach a general approach next thursday. accessibility and non-discrimination are important building blocks for independent living. adequate support services are certainly another. european funds offer significant resources to developing the community—based care and services that are essential for independent living. they may not be used for building or renovating residential institutions. the right to affordable long-term care services of good quality, in particular home care and community-based services, is also emphasised in the european pillar of social rights. in this regard, i take good note of your call to ensure that european funds must also adhere, over the next programing period, to the un convention and should continue to foster deinstitutionalisation as a matter of priority. i would also like to mention the work done under the estonian presidency on this topic, which should lead the member states next week to adopt the joint council conclusions on enhancing community-based support and care for independent living. the last area i would like to mention is free movement. the cross-border healthcare directive contributes to breaking down barriers to the free movement of all european citizens, including people with a disability. the same counts for my proposal to clarify social security coordination applying to long-term care benefits. next year, the commission will also evaluate the pilot project on a european visibility card, which is now up and running in eight member states. i have noticed that this initiative raises interest and expectations and i am grateful for the support you express. lastly, i want to say that today’s discussion and your resolution will also enrich our reflection on the shape of future eu disability policies. the commission is committed to taking the lead in this process and involving all actors, in particular people with disabilities and their representative organisations.
i would just like to make a remark in connection with ms estaràs ferragut’s concerns, which some others might share. we are still well on schedule for the votes as planned.
first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs helga stevens, on her excellent work on this report which is so necessary. it is very important that the commitments and measures taken in the european disability strategy are actually translated into concrete actions. anyone who has suffered an injury that has limited their mobility for even a few weeks has learned how difficult tasks can suddenly become that they would never have thought about in their normal life. as the social democrats' shadow rapporteur on the european accessibility act, i would therefore like to emphasise that accessibility is one of the key issues. accessibility to everyday services and goods, as well as to the built environment, can significantly improve the quality of life not only of persons with disabilities but also of older citizens, for example, and contribute to their full participation in society. i am glad that parliament has voted its strong position on the act and i hope that it will be adopted without delay by the representatives of the member states in the council, as this report also calls for. it is also essential to promote an inclusive and active approach to the labour market, and in particular to ensure that it is non-discriminatory from the outset towards vulnerable groups. people with disabilities remain the most vulnerable to poverty, social exclusion and homelessness. i am pleased that the report by mrs stevens, with whom i have the honour of co-chairing the parliament's intergroup on the rights of persons with disabilities, covers all these aspects. i also greatly appreciate the involvement of organisations representing disabled people in the preparation of the report. as the motto of the european disability forum says: 'nothing about us without us'. i would also like to call on all colleagues to cooperate with organisations representing disabled people at national level, also in their normal legislative work. only then can we ensure that their rights are truly represented in all areas and at all levels.
i believe that the strength of a society is determined, among other things, by how it treats those in difficult situations. people with disabilities face many obstacles in their lives and it is the task of a society of solidarity to help them overcome them. equality and non-discrimination must therefore be at the heart of a strategy to help people with disabilities. both in terms of access to health care, access to work, education, social protection, etc. but we should not forget those who help to improve conditions, namely family members. these are very often unpaid caregivers. i have great respect for all those who give very physically and mentally demanding help to their family members who are disabled. ladies and gentlemen, let us care for those in difficult life situations, otherwise he cannot speak of civilized values.
mr president, colleagues, rapporteur helga stevens, i am convinced that we have to improve the living conditions of people with disabilities. i admire how they are able to overcome obstacles, but they still need to be helped. the key areas are education and employment, that is to say the accessibility of services that enable integration. involvement in work for disabled people has a positive impact on other aspects of their life and it leads to greater financial and social independence. employment also simplifies integration and helps to overcome prejudices by society. therefore, some of the facts mentioned in the report concern me. for example, in some member states, the work of people with disabilities is not sufficiently valued. certainly, we understand that they have to develop much more energy to meet their performance targets and do not always achieve the required results, so we should appreciate their efforts and ensure they have decent working conditions. a precondition for integration is equality-inclusive education. that is why i gladly accept the concrete provisions of the report, including erasmus+ and other youth programmes being accessible to disabled people. it is important to make life easier for people with disabilities through national activities, especially where the eu’s role is limited, such as in the area of social security.
it is my duty, not only as a member of parliament, but above all as a doctor, to support and promote every proposal, every measure that makes life easier for people with disabilities. the draft resolution on the implementation of the european disability strategy is certainly one of them. it is a sad reality that many of the measures taken so far at eu level towards people with disabilities have not been and are not being applied consistently and have not been sufficiently monitored. i think we need to be more ambitious in our approach to people with disabilities, at least as we have been recently in adopting the accessibility act. promoting the employment of people with disabilities, their non-discrimination and improving the quality of social services must be taken for granted.
i did not support this budget in this vote, although there have been some minor improvements, particularly in the area of the financial controls, in terms of administrative costs. unfortunately, the budget structure remains essentially the same. a lot of money is being spent on a variety of soft projects, the impact and significance of which is highly questionable and there is no change in priorities. we are facing a whole series of problems that are difficult to deal with, such as the protection of the eu's external borders, but there is still a structure of various organizations, projects, activities and initiatives that are swallowing money, but their results, when we look at the final balance sheet, are quite pathetic. unless there is a structural change, i cannot support such a budget.
the lisbon treaty, in article 5 (3), says that the eu should uphold the principle of subsidiarity, that is, that all things should be done as close as possible to the people, as close as possible to the citizens, that the eu should not do things that can be done satisfactorily at the regional, local level. i'm surprised we still have a budget line that funds grants for projects that are purely local in nature. like lookout points in the valley, like bike paths that lead from nowhere to nowhere, like even nightclubs or stork nests. are these projects of european significance? in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, these projects should be addressed at regional level. i believe that the eu is in breach of its own lisbon treaty in this matter and this practice should end.
i supported this proposal for a political agreement, which i very much appreciate, especially in the council, because the eu is really accessibility, i think it proves it. the world is full of challenges, threats that we face, and i'm glad that the budget is responding to those challenges, especially in the civil rights security chapter. in my view, it is important to maintain eu action and this draft 2018 budget is in line with this. i am also glad that we have managed to maintain the quota for cohesion policy, for cohesion policy, because this is the policy that helps to eliminate disparities, and if it were reduced, it would be precisely the resources for the development of the more backward regions that would be lost. i am therefore glad that this share has also been preserved. i also appreciate the item that has been increased for youth employment under the erasmus programme.
i would like to give the reasons why i voted in favour of amending the regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing an instrument contributing to stability and peace. under the current regulation, activities that provide real assistance in conflict and distress areas are funded. i can give as an example projects dealing with the refugee crisis. i recently visited turkey, where syrian refugees are being integrated, and i can tell you that this effort is working. i am therefore pleased that the european fund is also contributing through this instrument. the amendment to the regulation which i support therefore brings about a substantial change, namely the possibility of financing the security apparatus of third countries. given the security threats we face not only in the eu's neighbourhood, this is certainly more than desirable.
i'm usually very sceptical about all kinds of eu external activities. this is often the result of either the excessive ambitions of the european institutions themselves or the efforts of some of the major european players to increase their influence on the world political scene. but i regard this as a slight exception, which is why i voted in favour of this instrument. indeed, if the eu's external action is to have any meaning, it must be directed towards promoting and maintaining stability, peace and calm, especially in our immediate neighbourhood, and this instrument is clearly geared towards that. we're going to need better feedback, no doubt, better control of how the money spent has been spent, but it's a good idea in principle. so i could support her with a clear conscience.
i have supported this report because i think the change in regulation which it brings is very substantial and must be supported. in my view, to increase the effectiveness of our foreign representations, our foreign missions, our interests that we have right now in our immediate environment, that is extremely essential. if it is a question of advisory services to us, the administrative apparatus in these third countries, for example, then i think these are services which we should have supported long ago. if we want to reduce security risks and threats, we need to act in the countries where they first arise. if these funds are not used - the name is the instrument contributing to stability and peace - directly for the purchase of weapons, then in my opinion it is necessary to at least use these funds for consultancy, security, administrative services.
i abstained from this vote and i'll explain why. because the resolution is not balanced. we are dealing with a region which is producing a lot of instability and risks which are directly or indirectly affecting the situation in europe. we all know that there are basically four powers in the region. there's turkey, there's iran, there's saudi arabia and there's also egypt, which have created a certain balance between them, and one of these powers, iran, is now seeking regional hegemony. it is certainly not in the eu's interest to create a situation where one of these powers is a regional hegemon, because this will upset the balance in this area and create new risks for europe. i am convinced that this resolution is upsetting the balance in this respect. i think we should support the balance, and that is why i could not vote for this resolution. i abstained from the vote.
the report on the implementation of the european disability strategy has received strong support across the political spectrum. this report is really complex and i personally see the education and employment issues as fundamental. this is what makes it possible for disabled people to integrate fully into the work process and into life. i therefore particularly support measures relating to education and employment, such as the accessibility of erasmus+, so that students, young people and people with disabilities can be involved more than they are now. i also welcome the fact that the report calls on the commission to take some measures, such as the accessibility of public spaces. however, i believe that these measures should remain voluntary. so, although some of the proposals were adopted, with which i do not agree, i voted in favour of the report because i want to express my great appreciation and respect for my colleagues who are fighting to improve the conditions for disabled people.
colleague, i regret to underline that this was not a question. you have made a statement and i am afraid that this will go down against you. next time i will hesitate over whether to give you the opportunity because you have clearly misused the instrument. so, ms müller, i’m afraid there was no question. we can now proceed with mr flanagan for one minute and a half for the gue/ngl group.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 12 december 2017. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the recommendation for second reading from the committee on fisheries on the sustainable management of external fishing fleets, and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1006/2008 (11382/2/2017 – c8—0358/2017 – 2015/0289(cod)) (rapporteur: linnéa engström) (a8-0374/2017).
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, allow me also to thank my colleague julia girling, who has become a kind of ambassador for all ets reforms in this parliament. i think it's good that these people are working together on these things, because we had to get aviation out of the way, because of the influence of international organizations. but on the other hand, we must say that we are part of the whole system that we are preparing for and which, i firmly believe, will be completed in the near future, so that we do not limit emissions only to those closest to us, but also try to limit them where, unfortunately, we are constantly prevented from doing so, for example, by some international organizations, as is the case in the icao, but also in the imo in the context of shipping emissions. and we're finding the same resistance there, where they don't want to be open to us talking about how to do it differently. we in the gue/ngl certainly agree with the inclusion of aviation in the ets and the capture of its global emissions and consider it absolutely necessary. the current restrictions must remain in place and i understand that the sector must prepare for this. on the other hand, let us consider how we treat the european sector in the emissions trading system and how much time we give these multinational corporations and companies to adapt. i wish we could have equality, and i would also say that we will of course support this document, but please, let's always look at this globally and in the full breadth of the spectrum.
mr president, this report gives a very comprehensive picture of the respect for civil rights at european union level. there is a lot of information in this report that i can certainly agree with, but also some recommendations that i do not support. security is one of the fundamental rights of the citizens of the european union and it is precisely security that citizens in the european union are very concerned about today. the report therefore rightly calls on the commission and the member states to ensure the right of citizens to liberty and security, especially in the light of the increase in terrorist threats. these measures should be at local, national and union level. the report makes a very good point about the lack of women's participation in political life and their representation in management positions. it also expresses concern at the number of women facing poverty and social exclusion, which impede the fulfilment of their rights. in this context, i would add that we must combat the discrimination faced by mothers and also by parents when they care for children or their loved ones. law is about awareness. i therefore also welcome the fact that the report gives a number of examples of where citizens can get information, such as europe direct, the your europe portal, the e-justice portal or the solvit network. ladies and gentlemen, i do not support transnational candidates for the european parliament elections, which could lead to a paralysis of confidence in political representation.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur in particular for her comprehensive report. digitalisation is of course a european union issue, but it is also a global tool, namely digital commerce. it is therefore right to respond to digital developments and to focus on vocational training in such a way that over time deep social gaps do not arise. therefore, the principles of fair competition, net neutrality and consumer protection need to be maintained in the digital single market. it is therefore obviously necessary to emphasise the need to protect personal data in order to give consumers confidence in digital commerce. when negotiating trade conditions and agreements, the european union must never lower its high standards of protection for its businesses and consumers and must always comply with the european union legal order.
mr president, yesterday we commemorated the international day of human rights, which commemorates the adoption of the universal declaration of human rights in december 1948. this was at a time when a rigid totalitarianism was beginning to emerge in eastern europe and human rights were being brutally trampled. now, despite all the problems, our society enjoys a freedom and protection of human rights that have never been seen before in these countries of the european union. today marks exactly 100 years since the red cross was awarded the nobel peace prize. it happened symbolically in the midst of the war-mongering of world war i. human rights and peace are the greatest values we have in europe. we are not aware of it, and we do not appreciate it. peace is not a given, we must actively defend it in the face of the spread of radicalism and nationalism. sadly, human rights are being trampled on on a massive scale by dictatorial regimes and wars in many parts of the world. europe is the cradle of human rights and the european union is the greatest peace project in history. let's be proud of that! let us try to preserve and spread this legacy, not as an import, but as an inspiration for reconciliation for others, for example, in the middle east.
i start with an apology that we are starting five minutes late. we took the liberty of waiting a while for commissioner moscovici, who is on his way from the railway station. we will start now, because i believe that he will be with us in a few minutes. the next item is the report by petr ježek and jeppe kofod, on behalf of the committee of inquiry to investigate alleged contraventions and maladministration in the application of union law in relation to money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion, on the inquiry into money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion (pana committee) (2017/2013(ini)(a8-0357/2017).
rapporteur. – mr president, i will inform the commissioner later. first of all, i would like to thank the journalists involved in the leaks and revelations. they did a splendid job and this was investigative journalism at its best. it seems that the british media magnate, lord northcliffe, was thinking about panama and other leaks when he famously said that ‘news is something someone wants suppressed’. indeed, those who carried out the barbaric murder of daphne caruana galizia aimed to suppress a similar kind of revelation. in my view, the work of journalists was not only key to the issues related to taxes and money laundering, but it was part of global proof of the paramount importance of traditional journalism in times of disinformation campaigns and distorted or entirely fake news. i am proud that the european parliament took the baton and established its committee of inquiry into money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion (pana committee) and has been delivering. in particular, those citizens who feel left behind and abandoned by globalisation and other developments may see the behaviour of some rich individuals and companies implicated in leaks as further evidence of the injustice of the world they live in. the european parliament, after thorough investigations, puts forward clear recommendations on how to improve the situation. furthermore, it has already presented some of these recommendations, the commission has made some proposals and the member states have taken some steps in the directions indicated. last week, for the first time, the eu published a list of tax havens. it took time and it has certainly not expanded, as some expected, but it is a first and important step. stricter rules will apply when doing business with the listed countries as two important proposals made by the commission refer to this list, namely the public country—by—country reporting proposal and a proposal on transparency requirements for intermediaries. stricter reporting requirements will apply for multinationals with activities in listed jurisdictions or for intermediaries designing tax schemes routed through a listed country. to be credible, we should not only look outside the eu. speaking about member states, nothing is all shiny there. i would not perhaps go as far as oxfam and consider ireland, luxembourg, malta and the netherlands to be tax havens per se, but some member states are not very helpful in the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance and for fairer taxation in general. tomorrow there will be another – hopefully final – trilogue meeting on the revisions of the anti—money laundering directive. this is an essential piece of legislation and, in my view, the one that directly answers the panama papers revelations. one of the remaining key issues is the level of public access to the register of beneficial owners of companies and trusts. the pana committee is in favour of the widest possible access without limitations. one of the significant pana recommendations relates to the financial intelligence units in member states. they must be strengthened and have appropriate resources and personnel at their disposal. before i conclude, i would like to thank jeppe kofod, my co—rapporteur, and the shadows and other colleagues for their work and cooperation. it has been a lot of work and we must get the best out of it in tomorrow’s vote.
i thank both rapporteurs for their work on what is, in my opinion, one of the key items on the agenda of this plenary. like you, mr kofod, i regret that the council did not take the opportunity to be with us.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, tax policy should be one of our key economic priorities, and it is, unlike in the past. we have actually achieved a lot. we have introduced new measures such as the anti-tax avoidance package (atap), we improved cooperation through the directive on administrative cooperation and we are improving our efforts to fight money laundering through amendments to the anti-money laundering directive. we have also improved transparency, which is a very important part of this fight, and a lot of initiatives such as the common corporate tax base (cctb) and tackling vat fraud are on the table. so progress has been made, but, as was revealed in the work of the pana committee, the mission is far from being completed. we need to improve enforcement, as was suggested, for example, in the azerbaijan laundromat hearing. we must make beneficial ownership information more available in order to fight money laundering, and the eu should use its soft and hard power more effectively to influence other countries. last, but not least, the finance ministers must agree to dismantle tax practices that are not in line with the mutual interests of the eu. at the same time, over-politicising the issue, proposing not functional, or even bad, measures that make good headlines and no progress, is not the way forward. that is why i believe that in the plenary vote we will substantially improve the report of the committee and the report will get broad support. as a consequence, we will strengthen our push for the commission to fight in this area.
colleagues, i am about to close the list for catch-the-eye in a couple of minutes. while we have a lot of requests for the floor from a number of the groups, we still do not have any from two or three groups, so i will give a few final minutes to attract the attention of the chair for catch-the-eye and then i will close the list.
colleagues, we have had an exchange of views on participation in this important report, but i would appreciate it if we could now focus on the substance and on the report itself.
i will now close the catch-the-eye list and i will not re—open it. we have a long list and we also still have a long list of scheduled speakers.
thank you colleague, and thank you for your christmas wishes, which i can reciprocate.
ms berès, i am afraid that only one minute was communicated to the secretariat. i do apologise.
from now on, for time reasons, no blue cards will be accepted.
madam speaker, we live in a world where the top one percent of the world's wealth owns half of the world's wealth. the top 10 percent own 89 percent, and paying taxes is probably against the social mores, and so the economic divides between the top 10 and the rest of us are further widening. ninety-nine percent of the population experienced austerity during the economic crisis, and one percent enjoyed tax havens. that's what's destroying the world and the hope for a just society. i consider the fight against tax havens to be a matter of principle and absolutely necessary for the socio-economic stability of the state. laws and rules are meant to protect the most vulnerable, not just the richest. i refuse to get used to the fact that the rich and powerful simply refuse to pay their taxes, and so they steal from the very society that helped them to become rich. we need to stop just showing our horror after every leak and start doing something real. this report can be a start, but we need to take it to very concrete steps.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank all the members of parliament, on all benches, because i note, despite the normal, legitimate differences, a common desire to fight against tax evasion, tax fraud and tax optimisation. since the beginning of this mandate, you know that this is also a strong priority of this commission, and it is certainly mine. together we have done it - perhaps because of the context, but also because of the will - more in three years than in the previous twenty on this front, thanks to the journalists - whom i pay tribute to - thanks to the whistleblowers - whose role i recognise - thanks to parliament, thanks to your work, and i hope also a little thanks to the commission. what successes have we already had in the past three years? let us not ignore them, let us not always start from a blank slate, because that is a little discouraging. the automatic exchange of financial account information and, as a result, the end of banking secrecy is a real revolution for a generation or generations. the country-by-country declaration for companies is not yet public and i again call on the council to move in this direction, but it is there. the two directives on combating tax fraud and tax evasion, which are gradually prohibiting a whole series of reprehensible mechanisms, some of which - this is a bit of an optical illusion - are already a thing of the past, as their effects are revealed. i welcome the adoption by the council last week of the proposal on vat for online trade, which will also reduce fraud. so you see that we're moving forward. we go forward, sometimes with big steps, sometimes with smaller steps, but we go forward. can we be satisfied with this first assessment? by definition, no, it is not. we must continue, we must go further, we must never let up the pressure, we must continue to make proposals. you know that i will not let go of my hand and that the commission will be active on this front until the last day of its mandate, i assure you. the european citizens are asking us to do so. more than that, they demand it. each of us - and this applies first and foremost to the member states - will have to answer on this front. i am very clear that we must not wait for the next scandal to act. the commission is taking its responsibilities. we have therefore relaunched the european corporate tax base project. i am saying here that this reform, which is not just an anti-fraud reform, which is the definition of corporate taxation for the 21st century, is the mother of all reforms. i cannot finish my term as commissioner for taxation satisfied if we do not succeed. you are right, we must speed up and i call on the council to speed up and conclude this dossier before the end of the year 2018 which is about to begin. the simple principle that companies should pay their taxes where they make their profits should be put into practice. you know that having a common consolidated base - and i emphasize the term 'consolidated' - is precisely what prevents profit shifting, which is a source of absolutely massive fraud. this is what true tax justice in action is. the commission will also make proposals for fairer taxation of digital businesses, which by their very nature and the archaism of our tax systems largely escape corporate taxation. it is not acceptable that the effective tax rate for digital businesses is more than half that for traditional businesses. there's something there that's a distortion. preparing for the future also means adapting our tax system to these new realities. i wanted to assure you of the commission's willingness to move in this direction. i would like to respond to some of the many questions raised by members. i'll start with the blacklist. i want to be clear on this: this blacklist is not the commission's list, it is the member states' list, it is the council's list. the member states and the council have chosen a mode of operation which is to go through the code of conduct, to have an intergovernmental method of development. well, that is their responsibility and it is the finance ministers who have to justify it. i see my name every time, it's the moscovici list. no, that's not the list i came up with. what i proposed was that there should be a list, but the council made its list, with its strengths and weaknesses. that said, i would like to say something to this parliament - which i know well, i have been a member of - that sometimes the best is the enemy of the good. this list is undoubtedly a step forward, firstly because it exists and is the first in the history of the european union and secondly because the process of screening and dialogue with the member states has been conducted in a serious manner. finally, because these results are not insignificant: 17 countries on the black list and 47 on the grey list. what's important to me is this, is that the very process of listing, of listing, has led many countries to make commitments. so i say it this way, i think that discrediting this list, considering it as trivial, as worthless and not viable, as useless, is not a good approach. if we do this, we will discourage this goodwill which is still incomplete, when on the contrary we must go further. yes, this list is progress, limited progress, incomplete progress, but undeniable progress. how can we make sure that we complete it? first, be extremely serious about commitments. that's the heart for me. secondly, to ask the member states forcefully to put sanctions in place, and real sanctions, and then be able to start a process. it's not a picture, it's not a quitus. we have to make this process live. so there is a big question that is being asked, i saw that there was an amendment that had been tabled, on which i will refrain from making a statement, whether or not there are tax havens in the european union. if we look at the criteria that were taken from the start, if we do a systematic analysis, if we compare with others, i think this point is questionable. i said it. i also think that putting a country on the list of tax havens would be a bit discouraging or would encourage them not to continue the efforts they have already made, and i do not want to name them, but the automatic exchange of information does exist, the application of beps does exist. there is no country in the european union with a zero tax rate. that said, there are very serious problems and very serious failings in a number of countries in the european union, and if parliament feels that this justifies listing them as tax havens, that is your right to do so. i tried to explain what the procedure was. that is what i want to stress, not just the lists, but the tax systems of the member states, because that is the problem. it is the fact that some of these tax systems are favourable to practices which we condemn. the tax transparency agenda is also being developed and implemented within the european union. it is the implementation of the beps measures - i have spoken about this - and it is convergence in tax matters that must remain an objective. i urge parliamentarians, but also citizens, to hold their governments to account, to denounce those who refuse to move forward on the path of transparency. it is true that there are still marked differences, cautious measures, and that when the media fire is extinguished, when there is no more scandal, i myself see the return of this kind of human and political nature which makes the natural come back to the galop and timidity re-emerge. i will continue to call on member states to work on changing their tax rules, those that remain in favour of aggressive tax planning and optimisation, to adopt real sanctions. i really believe that this must be a very operational conclusion to all our work, and i also hope that i have heard some conflicting views on this. the commission will publish a communication on this in early 2018. finally, i welcome the calls for the use of article 116 and i undertake to move forward on this path by the end of the mandate, with the aim, however, of not misusing it. we have a tool called 'enhanced cooperation', which has never been used conclusively. i would like to see article 116 used in a positive way. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you again for your commitment and your determination. you will vote tomorrow on the amendments and the final report of your committee and, in my role, i urge you to maintain the highest level of ambition. the commission has already responded and will continue to respond to your calls and i will spare no effort. i say again, let us not let our guard down against tax evasion and dishonesty. we've won battles before. the war is far from being won, so, as we used to say in my youth, let's keep fighting.
rapporteur. – madam president, i appreciate the debate and the contribution and the overall approach by commissioner moscovici. when it comes to the report itself, i want it to be based primarily on the findings of our investigations. we have a committee of inquiry, not the committee of impressions or prejudices. therefore, my group does not support the paragraphs which either go against the compromises we have reached, those that are entirely out of the scope of our investigation, or those which would give some unworkable recommendations. the vote on those amendments was not fully representative of the balance of the committee. we would have liked to streamline the report for the plenary and make strong and credible recommendations. it is more or less the same as what we have done with the draft report and compromises, which were supported by a broad majority. finally, i would like to call on the commission and especially on the member states to take our recommendations seriously and to follow up on our proposals. our citizens expect us to deliver on tax justice.
mr. chairman, the danger of an extremist-controlled theocratic nuclear entity in afghanistan versus pakistan persists. parts of pakistan, a nuclear power, are controlled by the taliban. the same taliban that threatened and is threatening neighboring afghanistan. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, international control and an international military presence in afghanistan is needed today. relations between the european union and afghanistan are governed by the partnership and development agreement. the new eu strategy for afghanistan was presented in july this year. they are useful documents to promote regional stability and security. but i think we are not addressing the pressing issue of former afghan colleagues. they are often civilian employees of foreign armies. interpreters are among them. they collaborated with the foreign army, putting themselves and their families in danger. thousands of afghan interpreters were left unprotected after coalition troops left. we need special visa and asylum solutions for them. we cannot afford to throw them overboard, as often happens in my country, the czech republic. i'm talking about the interpreters for the czech troops in the province of logar. we're giving them away to extremist islamist forces who are exploiting the grievances of our former colleagues.
madam president, i welcome the establishment of the permanent structured cooperation (pesco), which was officially inaugurated yesterday. i am pleased that my country, the czech republic, will be involved in this cooperation. for many years after the lisbon treaty was adopted, we were just standing still. it was the unprecedented number of conventional and hybrid challenges that made us think about our collective potential and take action. no member state is capable of solving the complex security challenges we face today on its own. i therefore agree with the clear and ambitious wording of mr gahler's report. for example, the naming of threats is clear, whether it is terrorism, russia's ongoing war against ukraine, the illegal annexation and militarization of crimea, or the nuclear threat from north korea. it is also clear in the list of steps that should follow to ensure our common security. i attach great importance to strengthening the mandate of the common security and defence policy missions and to reforming their financing. their mandate should also include the fight against terrorism and the promotion of a programme of de-radicalisation. we also need to look at greater cooperation between these missions and europol and frontex. this is particularly important in the fight against international smuggling.
in writing. the eu leadership has been trying to build an independent military alliance since the 1960s. the western european union project has always ended up in declarations. the idea was also related to the idea of joint production of selected types of weapons. one of the few successes of this kind was the gripen fighter aircraft. in the civil sector, there is still a relatively successful airbus aircraft series project, the development of the arianne rocket launchers and the promising galileo project. but under pressure from reality, eu defence and foreign ministers are trying to revive the idea of a separate arms agency and coordination of military action. the eu stabilisation action in the regions of mopti and segou in mali has been quite successful. on the contrary, the attempt to stabilise the situation in libya after the overthrow of colonel gaddafi, as well as the attempt to eliminate the regime of bashar al-assad in syria, can be considered as completely unsuccessful. because of the stabilizing role played by the russian federation's assistance in syria, this report is riddled with severe russophobia in various parts. eu countries are currently heavily involved in the eufor althea mission in bosnia and herzegovina and the eulex mission in kosovo. these parts of the balkans are facing a large number of returning islamic state fighters. the european defence fund is to strengthen defence research and, within the eec, the european defence industry, independently of the us
mr president, it seems that ms mogherini is overdosing on some unjustifiable optimism vis-à-vis iran. this treaty does not work. it was set to help to improve the situation, particularly in the sphere of human rights and to make iran more peaceful. what we have seen instead was the number of executions rising, doubling in just three years, and we have seen iran continuing its anti-western policy. iran never gave up its nuclear ambitions and was launching ballistic missiles instead, it supported terrorists – like hezbollah – and it tried to achieve the status of a regional power, penetrating iraq, syria and yemen, which could shake the very fragile regional balance of power. it seems, therefore, that iran is rather encouraged by this deal, not curbed by it, and therefore i do not see any reason why we should be worried about preserving the deal. it is a failure. we should in fact change it, or scrap it. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i can only tell you that this deal was supposed to create a certain atmosphere, and it has been said that while it deals with a particular issue, the nuclear ambition of iran, it could help to change the atmosphere in iran and pave the way for improvement in the sphere of human rights, for instance. so, regardless of whether there is an article or not, it seems that the overall atmosphere and those implications that were expected to happen, simply did not. that is the whole thing.
madam chairman, today's report from amnesty international unfortunately confirms what we've known for some time. libya is in chaos, the aftermath of war conflict, incredibly poor post-war reconstruction and the country's complicated social stratification make the country's stability seem elusive. so now there is torture on the ground in libya, and even something as incredibly barbaric as human trafficking. members of the libyan coast guard are working with smugglers, and the state is in chaos, parasitizing on human misery. i believe that the nato countries that have contributed to the incredible devastation of this country should now take responsibility and help to put this country back on its feet. a political and diplomatic consensus must be reached as soon as possible on how to ensure that libyan institutions are able to enforce law and order in the country as quickly as possible.
madam president, i am pleased that the report reiterates its call for a common position of the european union on the use of drones equipped with weapons. the activities of these silent killers violate international humanitarian law. the machine doesn't know what the legal framework is, what proportionality is, what accountability is, what civil protection is, what transparency is. but it is our duty to use them in that spirit. i believe that we must again urge the european union as a whole, but above all the commission, to ban the development, production and use of fully autonomous weapons that allow attacks to be carried out without human intervention. it is our duty to use new military technologies to help protect the lives of soldiers, but not at the expense of the safety of innocent civilians. we all know that machines have their limits, and there's no such thing as 100% efficiency. and that's why we need to do more to create strong international rules, but first and foremost, we need to start with ourselves.
for the group gue/ngl madam president, the way the kebab is made in the street stalls today has nothing to do with the way it's actually made. kebab sellers are charging a few bucks to have frozen lumps of meat from germany, which are sprayed with phosphate to save money, since the meat does not dry on the grill, and they are selling it at a reduced cost to consumers for a few euros. the present process has nothing to do with cooking either, since traditionally this delicacy is made by layering different kinds of meat, varying in fat, rather than from a cloth of unattractive shape and smell. just to give you an idea of what we are talking about, my colleague from the s&d group has already explained here how absurd the ppe group's arguments are. if the honourable member says that we want to save the kebab, i would very much like the ppe group to have a primary interest in protecting european citizens. that's more important to me. and if there's the slightest suspicion, i have to act on the precautionary principle, which means acting in a way that doesn't put citizens at risk. and as has been said here several times, you are putting something into our mouths that is simply not true. we only want the commission to take its time, to wait for the european agency to assess the whole matter in a year's time and to be informed of the results, both in terms of the results and the implications of the results, so that we can act. i don't know what your hurry is, but we're not in a hurry to do anything that could harm european citizens.
madam president, i believe that this midnight debate is perhaps more harmful to health than the 100 milligrams of phosphate i consumed in prison today. in any case, we are now talking about phosphate in frozen meat because some members of parliament simply want to ban it. the objection to the commission's measure is unfounded in my view. i believe that the commission is responding correctly to current practice and that the regulation provides greater transparency and certainty for consumers and producers. phosphates are already explicitly allowed in fresh meat today and it is perfectly consistent that they should be allowed in frozen meat as well. if the defect is detected in the future, it is of course possible to continue with this limit. as we know, phosphates are used to enhance both the taste and the smell of meat. the use of phosphate is certainly not ideal, it should be reduced, and it is being reduced, under pressure from regulation or for quality reasons. manufacturers are working to improve this quality and are voluntarily reducing the content of these substances themselves. our role is to ensure health safety first and foremost. i therefore naturally agree that we should be very cautious, and that is why the commission is only authorising the minimum amount of phosphate. our role is therefore clear and the commission's action is in that direction, which is why i support its proposal for a regulation. i consider a total ban to be a purely populist gesture, which i do not agree with.
in writing. the objection concerning the use of phosphates in frozen meat homolys for vertical grilling responds to a commission proposal aimed at updating one of the annexes to the current food additives regulation. the proposal is intended to legalise in practice the use of phosphates (and several other so-called 'eches') in this type of meat. the authorisation of additives in food is based on three legislative requirements: the additives must be safe, their use must be technologically justified and they must not mislead the consumer. however, in the case of the use of phosphates, there are concerns that none of the above criteria are met and, in particular, the health aspect needs to be carefully considered before the general ban on the use of additives of phosphates in meat preparations should be revised in any way.
madam president, the european council should support the brexit negotiations as proposed, particularly as regards the security of citizens who are threatened by uncertainty following the withdrawal of the united kingdom. while the united kingdom is not united, the european union has a united position. that's our strength and our negotiating advantage. i would welcome it if the european council took note of its president, mr tusk,'s position on the migration crisis. he just said what he thought. i wanted to challenge mr timmermans, who said that the member states must strike a balance between solidarity and security. mr. timmermans, you said that securing the border and fighting smugglers must be our priority. that's my opinion too. the member states must and do show solidarity, but they also have a responsibility. this solution must be common, while respecting the situation and the position of the individual member states. i think mr tusk said the same thing, we cannot ignore subsidiarity.
madam president, i am missing mr farage. i wanted to express my appreciation for the most pro-eu speech he has ever made in this house. i very much appreciate it – in fact, he praised the european union! two remarks. first, as concerns mr barnier and the negotiations, congratulations. but there is really one issue that i would ask you to take into account, from the ep resolution, and that is the status of citizens because still, from a procedural point of view, there is insecurity for eu citizens. i think it should be pure registration with the burden of proof residing with the united kingdom. the second remark i would make is on the euro. i really would appreciate it if the summit could take an important step towards better governance in the euro area. you might ask why a czech is placing such emphasis on this. well, i would like to show the czech citizens and czech politicians for once that they cannot use the excuse of bad governance in the euro area, so we could have a serious debate on the introduction of the euro in the czech republic.
mr. chairman, with all due respect to your conduct, i would ask you, could you please speed this up a little?
mr president, i did not support this report, i abstained and i will explain why. it is not just that the european parliament is dealing with this subject for the second time in a short time, which seems to me to be somewhat unnecessary. but i have a feeling that the whole series of amendments are not so much driven by a good will to help as by a bad will to complicate things. i say this with full responsibility as a member of this body. i really believe that in some cases ideology is winning over reason, over objectivity. it has already begun with the appointment of mr verhofstadt as the european parliament's chief negotiator, because he is certainly not a politically neutral person. i am very much afraid that in the final stages of these negotiations, the european parliament will be trying to add to the sand, as we say in the czech republic. i warn you, and i cannot support reports of this nature.
mr. chairman, i voted in favour of this resolution. i must say that i regarded the decision of the british electorate as very unfortunate for the future of our common continent. but it must be respected. it is important to me that the european parliament addresses this situation repeatedly. we must make the position of the european parliament clear, because at the end of the process it cannot be overruled. so unlike my esteemed colleague mr. gardiner, i think it's important that we look at this intensely. that is why i welcome the agreement that has been reached, because it provides at least some basis for the uncertainty we have been in. in fact, those who did not vote for the report are contributing to the uncertainty to some extent. i didn't want to be part of that crowd, so i supported her, even though i don't like some of the parameters of the deal. but if we don't get some sort of final deal, it's going to be a real disaster.
mr president, last week we were to celebrate in the czech republic the 10th anniversary of our accession to the schengen area. but the celebrations were almost unnoticeable. the unique idea of allowing people to move freely and without controls across the european union is taken for granted by many of us today. moreover, the czech republic is almost economically dependent on the smooth functioning of the movement of goods. it's all the more surprising that we can't appreciate the schengen area. many politicians are not prepared to exploit the schengen area for their populist games in the context of migration and security policy. the schengen area is being put to a major test in its functioning. for example, according to a study by the european parliament, the cost of abolishing the schengen area would be between eur 100 and 230 billion over 10 years. the schengen area was conceived from the outset as an organism that includes elements of freedom and security. freedom of movement without internal borders is balanced from the beginning of this idea. balanced not only by the important protection of the external borders, but also by a system of a number of other follow-up regulations. the security aspect of the schengen area has been strengthened significantly in the last two years. they strengthened the powers of frontex, and we approved the introduction of an entry/exit system (ees) and a number of other regulations to improve border controls. i look forward to the new members of the schengen area. bulgaria and romania and croatia must be admitted to the schengen area immediately after meeting all the binding criteria.
mr president, madam commissioner, the social pillar reminds us of the existing protection of social rights in the european union and adds some new principles to respond to new challenges, such as the need to ensure minimum incomes. i would like to recall that social policy remains a competence of the member states, as well as the need to respect the different socioeconomic situations and the diversity of systems in the member states. while i consider the protection of citizens' social rights to be a priority, i would like to recall that all interests must be balanced, for example, if we want to effectively strengthen the social rights of workers, we should also allow for new forms of entrepreneurship and employment, such as crowdworking. these innovative forms of work create new job opportunities. we have a political plan for the social sector which, in my view, should not be detached from economic and political realities.
mr president, the sustainable development goals are enshrined in the european union's founding treaties and also incorporated in key sectoral policy projects and initiatives. the survival of our planet is really the task of all of us, it's our own responsibility. as mentioned above, the united nations adopted the 2030 agenda for sustainable development in september 2015 in the form of these 17 goals. the commission communication sets out a framework for regular monitoring of progress towards these objectives in the context of the european union. on the basis of this communication, eurostat is to publish an annual report and, as my preface has already said, it published this report on the achievement of these 17 objectives in may this year. the data collected show that the european union has made progress towards all these objectives over the past five years. significant progress has been made on objective 7 'affordable and clean energy', objective 12 'responsible consumption and production', objective 15 'rural living', objective 11 'sustainable cities, towns and cities and good health and well-being'. there's been less progress on the goals that my preface talked about, and i won't repeat that, but there's not enough information to evaluate four areas: clean water, which really surprises me, also climate action, underwater life and peace, justice and strong institutions. i would like to ask the commissioner how we can assess areas where we do not have enough information. i think it would be worth considering how to proceed in this case in order to meet these indicators.
the question posed by the blue card. mr president, i welcome the efforts of the commission and the council to ban nazi symbols and slogans, and i would like to ask you: how is a swastika different from a sickle and a hammer? how does totalitarian nazism differ from totalitarian communism? after all, communism is also responsible for the deaths of millions of people. is it not time to include communist symbols along with nazi symbols in the effort to ban them?
mr president, we are discussing this subject because we are witnessing a worrying trend in europe of the rise of extremist parties which do not hesitate to use nazi symbols for their purposes. the symbols are visible, but the need to fight against hateful ideologies as such is paramount, especially if they are still so alive. education and media are key. young people no longer have personal experience and thus no knowledge of the horrors that totalitarian ideologies perpetrated in the 20th century. therefore, it is necessary to educate them and to provide them with the firsthand testimonies of the memorialists. more than words, experience. that is why i appreciate the work of organisations such as the czech republic's national remembrance and the european memory and conscience platform at the level of the european union. the european union is a common space for the dissemination of information, including social media, and therefore a european response is needed, which should include and help member states to help tackle extremism, especially online, and to punish hate speech, including the use of prohibited symbols, by criminal law. we should be more reminded of the realities of nazism and the holocaust. it is no coincidence that many victims of nazism suffered under communist regimes in central and eastern europe. so when we talk about banning fascist and nazi symbols, we should think about communist symbols in the same way. the sickle and the hammer are symbols of the parties under whose rule more than fifty million people were killed. it's our debt to the victims of the red totality.
the committee on culture and education. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank my colleague, mrs anne-marie, for her report, which contains many suggestions for improvement. the committee on culture and education has naturally focused on social networks and prevention. the internet is becoming a dangerous tool for crimes against children. these attacks are cross-border in nature. we therefore call for more cooperation between the member states in this area and for the european union to be able to reach an agreement. i therefore welcome the commitment that the commissioner has made here. we call for more cooperation between member states in this respect. we need to adapt the fight against these crimes to the digital age. more effective information exchange will facilitate the prevention of further crime in other member states. for example, half of the member states have adopted a voluntary measure to block child pornography on the internet. research shows that blocking is more effective than removing content because it's faster. in general, we should be careful about blocking content on the internet, because it threatens freedom and access to information. but children are especially vulnerable victims. that's why we should focus on prevention and not hesitate.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur in particular for a very important report. transport is the source of more than 25% of greenhouse gas emissions in the european union. road transport is responsible for more than 70% of transport greenhouse gas emissions. action is therefore needed in this area in particular, but at the same time efforts to reduce emissions in all transport sectors should be stepped up. in this context, i very much welcome the debate on the possibilities of electrification of transport, especially road transport. i'd just like to point out that it wouldn't be entirely sensible to bet everything on one card. the debate should also be on the merits of natural gas and biomethane, synthetic methane and liquefied petroleum gas. there are more options, and we have to take into account that there may be more in the future. the debate on this subject must be objective and, above all, realistic. we must only ask for what is feasible and not dreamed of, and we must also realise that as alternative technologies develop, it is imperative to build the necessary and necessary infrastructure. without it, we can only dream of it. ladies and gentlemen, i sincerely hope we're not going to be left out of this. air pollution is responsible for more than 400 000 premature deaths in the european union every year, which i consider to be reprehensible and unacceptable. we need to negotiate a settlement here.
road transport accounts for 70% of total transport emissions. so if we're going to focus on one area of climate change, we're going in the right direction. the report's objectives are broadly in line with our long-term interests, but in some respects it is ahead of its time. i agree with the promotion of low-emission cars, but i'm not in favour of mandatory quotas. we should take measures to encourage manufacturers to produce low-emission vehicles and consumers to buy them. any enforcement could jeopardise technological progress and natural competition. i also do not support the idea of compulsory tolling systems for passenger cars. while motorway charges should reflect emissions, there are other ways to do this. on the contrary, i would like to emphasise the need to increase consumer motivation to use more environmentally friendly modes of transport, such as public transport, cycling, car-sharing, etc. this requires, among other things, the provision of accessible public transport and information to allow easy and efficient journey planning. i can also imagine better cooperation between member states in this area. a good proposal is the creation of a voluntary information platform linking national databases for the search of connections.
author. – madam president, i will not repeat what the other co-authors have already said. i think the description was precise and i completely share it. i would rather say what we now expect: vietnam is an important partner of the european union. we want vietnam to maintain that position and we want to develop this relationship, but this is subject to vietnam’s compliance with its international obligations, to reforming its legal order in a way that is compatible with its obligations ,and also to its release of the political prisoners that are detained. i must say that i was quite shocked by what we have all received from the vietnamese permanent mission. there is clearly a lack of understanding, which is what the european parliament is going to say today and vote on. i am sure that it will send a strong, clear political message. the only possible response, while still aiming to develop our relations, is that there will be a release and that there will be changes in the political attitudes and the legal order of vietnam. that is the only possible reply that we will accept.
madam president, i think we have to repeat what happened in vietnam because it is unprecedented. in late november, a well-known vietnamese blogger and influencer was sentenced to seven years in prison for spreading information about the 2016 ecological disaster. ladies and gentlemen, this man has been convicted of abusing democratic freedoms to infringe upon the interests of the state and has subsequently been convicted of allegedly creating and disseminating propaganda against the state. how typical of communist regimes! the whole process was accompanied by a number of circumstances that do not correspond to the principles of the rule of law and fundamental human rights. the blogger was arrested without an official warrant. the trial was closed, he had no legal representation, and he was subsequently wrongfully convicted. ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased that the whole cause has been accompanied by the mobilization of the citizens on social networks and even demonstrations in the streets. however, we as the european parliament and european politicians must also act from our own position. currently, media freedom, freedom of press, freedom of speech are severely restricted in vietnam and in some places there is even talk of censorship. the sentencing of nguyen van hoa shows that the government exercises its political control which is completely contrary to justice and the denial of human rights. that's why i think we need to address this challenge to the vietnamese government.
madam president, commissioner, i spent the first part of my life in a totalitarian regime which tells people what to think, which puts the politics of the regime above the law, above the rule of law, and which restricts freedom of conscience, freedom of expression. so i feel very strongly for the people of vietnam who cannot enjoy this freedom, democracy and rule of law. i am pleased that the european parliament will today, in the case of nguyen van hoy, be calling for the release of this journalist, blogger and activist, if possible, and with him all the other political prisoners, prisoners of conscience, whom vietnam, although an important partner of the european union, is oppressing.
madam president, i would like to join my speakers in criticizing the cambodian regime. there is no way that such vague resolutions could allow the supreme court to dissolve the main opposition party and ban several dozen cambodian politicians from their activities. i think it is important that we also say enough to the cambodian state, if it does not recognize and respond to our resolution, to the resolution of one of the institutions of the european union, which has been providing significant support to cambodia so far. i welcome the european commission's decision to stop payments, but the issue of the dissolution of the main opposition party also affects the validity of the elections next year. i think we should send a clear signal that we will not recognize the validity of this election. as regards other sanctions, i think we should also move towards visa restrictions, which should only be granted in exceptional cases.
madam president, when mr jurek finished his speech, i had the impression that he was talking about something else entirely. not a word about solidarity with women, about understanding that abortion or stillbirth is a different reality than abortion. i'm not a fan of, say, an exaggerated abortion option for women, but on the other hand, i have to see the circumstances that are perhaps understandable and that we're talking about. i therefore want to express my solidarity with the women of el salvador who are affected by this legislation, and i think that all reasonable colleagues in this chamber, and i would say even the dogmatists in poland, should condemn this legislation (the speaker refused to answer the question raised by marek jurek by raising his blue card).
mr president, i would like to make it clear that i voted against the objection raised by a group of members, namely the commission regulation authorising phosphates in frozen meat. i also spoke in the debate, explaining my reasoning. in the end, this objection did not pass very narrowly in yesterday's vote, by three votes. i am also convinced that it was thanks to the explanations given by the commission here in the plenary that we as the european people's party pushed for this subject to be discussed in the plenary, so that we could explain our reasons. citizens in the european union need not worry, as the daily consumption of phosphate will certainly not increase, and the minimum amount allowed in frozen meat used, for example, to prepare kebabs will not increase the danger and the inconvenience. of course, we'll continue to monitor and follow up very carefully with any further authorizations.
mr president, i too did not support the motion for a resolution in this vote, not because i lack any sense of consumer protection, but i think we should not exaggerate. if we had scientifically based statements from our own agencies, agencies set up by the european union, which were able to explain to us in a qualified way that there really is no danger here, that both the concentration of the substances in question and the amount consumed are well below levels that could cause any harm to health. i feel that we have voted a bit uselessly and i would urge that, even if perhaps with good intentions and goodwill, colleagues should not abuse the plenary session to vote on matters which are not absolutely necessary.
mr president, i did not support this objection either, because it is important to say that phosphates are used in a number of other food products, be it soft drinks or the confectionery industry. there are many different types of phosphates and i think the commission has quite rightly filled a certain legal gap by allowing the use of phosphates in these frozen semi-finished products. if the european food safety authority is to carry out a study on the safety of these substances next year, i think that at this stage, in the case of the colleagues who are raising this objection, it was more a matter of creating a certain fear. the limits allowed by the regulation are many times lower than the daily allowable limits. i therefore did not support the objection for these reasons, but at the same time i would like to say that i will be following very closely the evaluation of the whole group of phosphates as it is being carried out by the european food safety authority.
mr president, i have given this report a lot of thought as to how i will vote. finally, i supported the report because the resulting form, in my view, is consistent with the effort to prevent tax evasion. i find them to be immoral, and they cannot be further recorded by those who abuse the law or even violate the law explicitly. this also applies to the member states of the european union. unfair tax competition between member states, i think, violates the principles on which the european union is founded and is as bad as direct taxation at the level of the european union. i've come to believe that we should seek a balance between these two extremes. and i think that certain measures and mechanisms proposed by the european commission can help to combat these leaks and to punish the black passengers who actually travel on a train that is drawn by others.
mr president, let me explain why i voted for the report on the annual report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy. in today's world, where we are faced with increasingly frequent threats, very close cooperation is needed, including in the field of security and foreign affairs. it is therefore very right that our report adopted the paragraph we voted on, which also calls for the extension of sanctions against individuals and entities in russia, as this is necessary in view of the failure to implement the minsk agreements. of course, we must be concerned with the situation that is not stable and that affects our immediate neighbourhood. the report responds well to the ambiguity of the current international environment and the european union needs to be more active in this area. this is a demand of the citizens of the european union and the european parliament is responding to it.
mr president, let me explain why i was unable to vote in favour of a report on human rights in the world, even though i am always very sensitive to this subject. in fact, the report approved passages calling for the expansion of sexual and reproductive rights, in other words, the promotion of abortion worldwide. i also cannot agree with the renewed call for compulsory refugee quotas to be respected, which even the president of the european council, tusk, has already described as inefficient. however, i think it is important that the european parliament systematically addresses the human rights situation, because around us, including in nearby turkey, we have big problems when we look at how turkey violates human rights and jails its academics and journalists.
